14-00000

104-10113-10249 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FOR Cates, Wa/a/ampuation

(Sabort Subrial)

12 April 1963

tal of Elaques Cyfimary Facsart in Alias

AD Carto
6937

Ezazvandien dated 5 April 1963, as ambjest

1. Submitted herewith for use as outlined in Reference following two documents issued in alias for AMTALE-1: Ordinary Passport No. 6570 and U.S. Emigration and Naturalization Form I-94 (stapled in the passport, page 9). Also furnished herewith is a travel itinerary on which AMTALE-1 should be briefed before he applies for the Argentina visa in New York.

2. In keeping with arrangements made by TWD/AD, the Medical Office is preparing, for direct delivery to WI/S, the International Vaccination Certificate in alias to be used with the above documents. This certificate should be checked for accuracy as to name, place and date of issue. It is also understood that AMTALE-1 will have received a rice smallpox vaccination prior to departing from the U.S.

3. TWD/A3 prepared the above (Nicaraguan) passport on the strength of information that (DIOCESE) could instruct an Argentina Consular post in the U.S. to place a visa in the passport. The document was prepared in one week from date of request because of operational urgency. The requirement codified use of a Central American passport. To avoid placing a long, time-consuming simulated itinerary in the passport, it was given a recent issuance date, which necessitated issuance on the basis of samples issued nearly one year earlier (the most recent ones available). This short itinerary also would seem to make application at this time in the U.S. for an Argentine visa somewhat unusual. Since we are now informed that AMTALE-1 is to obtain his Argentine visa without (mm) assistance, we wish to note the limitations of the documentation provided for this operation, and agreed to by Mr. (Jebring), matter of record. This confirms discussion with Mr. Tembrini. A telephone check with the Argentine Embassy by WI indicated that a (Nicaraguan) transient in the U.S. can obtain an Argentina visa in this country.

SECRET

Excluded from downgrading and declassification

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000
SECRET

4. It is understood that the passport will be needed for about six months, following which it is to be returned to TWD/AB. Should further operational need exist for this document beyond that time, it must be kept in mind that the expiration date is 7 March 1969 and that unusual revalidations are needed from that time forward. Any such revalidations would have to be entered by B/AB. Also, use of this passport for travel other than that originally intended (direct from U.S. to Argentina and back within six months) will require careful scrutiny by TWD/AB of the situation at the time of the intended future travel.

5. In accordance with verbal arrangements between (Kzoare) and (Thalas) please pass on to TWD/AB details of AMTALE-1's procurement of the Argentine visa and any other travel control events of significance in this alias passport so that ISB/AB can gain from the experience of this agent in use of this alias document.

6. Any further questions concerning this case should be referred to the undersigned or to Miss Jayikne on extension 1351.

Attachment:

(Patrick J. Palaa)
S22/23

1 Envelope (1/0)
1 (Nicaraguan) Passport
Travel Itinerary

Distribution:
Official 61

- O/CI/ARS (10)
