14-00000
104-10185-10105

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

COUNTRY: Cuba
SUBJECT: (fnu) RELOVA
SOURCE: Former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence Service until April 1964.
REPORT NO: GSCI-316/00704-64
DATE DISTR: September 1964
NO PAGES: 2
REFERENCES: CSCI-313/00701-61

WARNING: This document contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C., Secs. 793 and 794. The law prohibits its transmission or the revelation of its contents in any manner to an unauthorized person, as well as its use in any manner prejudicial to the safety or interest of the United States or for the benefit of any foreign government to the detriment of the United States.

Headquarters Comments: The following report is one of a series containing personality information provided by the source and includes supplemental information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without first checking with this Agency.

(fnu) RELOVA, pseudonym "Walterto," is an officer of the Direccion General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI) in Cuba. He resides at Calle 15 number 2419, Reparto Juan Manuel Marquez, Playa de Santa Fe, Mariano, Habana.

Headquarters Comments: An airline passenger manifest revealed that one Osvaldo RELOVA Penichet, probably identical with the above Subject, left Mexico for Habana on 8 July 1963 and was the holder of Cuban passport number D/63/415.

[Official Jamaican source] in a report dated 16 October 1963, stated that Osvaldo RELOVA, the First Secretary of the Cuban Embassy in Canada, arrived in Kingston on 14 October 1963. He was in Kingston for one week and lived at the Cuban Consulate office. RELOVA was reportedly making an inspection trip. RELOVA was born on 13 August 1930, in Habana. His home address was given as 15H 2419 Santa Fe, Habana. He carried Cuban passport number D/63/415, issued in Habana on 17 June 1963.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

DISTRIBUTION:
STATE
DIA
ARMY
NAVY
AIR
NSA
CINCLANT
CINCSO
FBI

PROJECT: LX-1650
NO PROJECT (AMMUG/1)
TNTE CANADAL
Ç'IE BRITISH
PL NO. 41P√

COORDINATING: LIAISON
MIK:LD: sw
201-737138

14-00000

In a report dated 19 October 1963, source revealed that one Osvaldo RELOVA Penichet was employed by "Envases del Cerro, S.A." firma, located at Calzada del Cerro Avenue, Habana.

A fairly reliable source, in a report dated 23 October 1963, revealed that Osvaldo RELOVA, First Secretary of the Cuban Embassy in Canada, left Kingston for Toronto on October 1963, on CA flight number 585.

An official Canadian source, in a report dated 26 November 1963, said that Osvaldo RELOVA Penichet, born on 13 August 1930, was not the First Secretary of the Cuban Embassy in Canada as previous reports stated. Rather, RELOVA, who was a frequent visitor to Canada, traveled as an "Embassy Inspector." He carried Cuban Diplomatic passport D/63/415 with Mexico visa number OF-7090; he had no Canadian visa. The address on his passport was given as 15/J number 2119, Santa Fe Ranch, Habana. RELOVA entered Canada on 16 August 1963, destined to visit Jesus YANES Rodriguez, Cuban Commercial Attache in Montreal. He departed Canada for Mexico on 25 August 1963, in the company of Alberca MENDUCA.

A former Cuban Intelligence officer who has been living in the United States since 1963 and whose reporting over the past nine months has proven reliable, gave the following information on 21 July 1964, on Osvaldo RELOVA Penechet (presumably identical with RELOVA):

In early 1961, RELOVA was an administrator of a section of the Consolidated Hardware Stores and annexes. In late 1961 he went to see source to get help with an investigation on a Mr. BARRAL, Administrator of the Consolidated. RELOVA was requesting source's aid in the belief that source was still working for G-2; source did not tell him otherwise. RELOVA is a new Communist who wants to be more than MARX and is trying to instruct everyone around him. Source said that RELOVA was born about 1934, is 164 pounds, five feet nine inches in height, has a medium thin build, a long face, and a long thin neck. He has dark eyes, black hair, is partially bald, and has a small, thin mustache.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
