(2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992)

[104-10171-1001]

DISPATCH

FROM: Chief of Station, JM

TO: Chief, Task Force W

SUBJECT: OT1038/Operational-Transmittal of CRA Reports

ACTION REQUIRED
REFERENCES: UPGA 3797, 16 April 1962

ACTION: For your information

Transmitted herewith are CRA reports, numbers 134 through 149, and 156.
An index is attached.

Attachments: (herewith)
CKA-134 thru 149, 1 cy.
CKA-156 (1 copy)
CKA Index, in duplicate

Distribution:
1 - TF/W, w/atts. (h/v)

Background Use Only,
Do Not Reproduce

END OF DISPATCH

SECRET

DATE: 16 Apr 62
DISPATCHED: APR 26 1962
DISPATCH SYM AND NUMBER: UPGA-3816/3

HEADQUARTERS
25-230-33

CRA 137
12 April 1962

TO: Chief, Task Force/W
FROM: Chief of Station, JMHAVE

SUBJECT: Operational/RYROGE
DIE, Santiago de Cuba

ATTENTION REQUESTED: PR/RYRUGE/AUTURE. OG

1. On 9 April 1962, Jose Antonio Saturnal Magna (aka "Che"), born 11 April 1930, Santiago de Cuba; Married to Elisa Sadurni Casas, OG [1619 Meridian Ave., Apt. C-10] Miami Beach, telephone: [JE 2-2641] was interviewed.

2. Source said that during the revolution he was a member of the DR in the University of Habana. After the revolution he went to the University of Oriente, Santiago de Cuba, and eventually became the DRE chief for the city. In regard to his former DR association he had no operational leads, claiming that all contact with DR members terminated in 1959; and he knew no one who attained any stature in the Castro Government.

3. As DRE chief for Santiago, the source claimed that he had 50 members who he considered well organized and capable of any type of action. He said that there were, and are, other members, but he does not consider them in the same category with the 50 who are organized into cells. He said each cell has nine men. There are four cells in the University of Oriente and two in the high school.

4. He said that he left Santiago in March 1962 and turned the DRE over to his deputy. He then went to Habana and informed the DRE leadership that the second in command had taken over and he was told that Habana would initiate contact with the new leader. (Note: Since close relations are maintained by the JMHAVE Station and the DRE, no attempt was made to press the source for names and addresses, etc., as this information can be obtained in subsequent outside debriefings. The JMHAVE Officer responsible for the DRE operational matters was informed of the source's arrival and processing.)

5. Source said that at the time he left Santiago, the remnants of the Catholic student organization was trying to make contact with the DRE and he believes that by this time this contact has been made. He said that the DRE member who was following this matter, and who would follow through, was a blind person.

6. Listing the arms and supplies in the possession of the DRE in Santiago, the source said that it has about 5-6 pounds of plastic remaining out of a shipment of 20 pounds which was received from the DRE in Habana. He said the DRE in Santiago placed bombs in places where the explosion would not injure anyone. As far as arms are concerned the source said that the DRE in Santiago has ten .45 caliber pistols; five .38 caliber pistols; one M-3; and one "Tommy" gun.

7. The source furnished the following KWAUER-type information:

a. He said that his father is in jail in Puerto Boniato, and that in order to try and get him free, the source went to see Major Delarmino "Anibal" Castilla, the chief of training for the Palma Soriano Military Encampment, whom he knew from their days in the Santiago High School. Source made his plea and "Anibal" told him that before he could act upon it, he would have to talk to the source for five hours in order to determine his political orientation. The source replied that he did not come to talk politics but to plead for his father. "Anibal" answered that he would think about it and call the source one way or another, but he never called. Source thought that this story adequately demonstrated the (Communist) political orientation of "Anibal."

b. The brother of "Anibal" (para 6a above) is "Bertico" Castilla, first name possibly Alberto. He resigned from the army and is now living in Santiago, but the source is not clear on "Bertico's" political orientation.

c. Electra Fernandez, the wife of Mendez Cominche (the Santiago G-2 chief), is no longer the civil head (comisionado) of Santiago. She is now the President of the Federacion de Mujeres Cubanas.

d. The source has given a complete military map of Oriente Province to the DRE member he left in charge of Santiago DRE (see para 4 above). Information is passed from Santiago to the DRE in Habana and the latter, in turn, is to forward the information to the States.

e. Source said that his contacts who work in Nicaro report that the Nicaro-Mayari Arriba area is restricted and that unknown types of military installations are being constructed.

f. The foreign instructors in the University of Oriente consist of Czechs and Chileans. The Czechs have started a new medical school in the university and the Chileans have taken over the Business Administration Courses.

Nelson L. RAMROCH

ATTACHMENT TO: UPGA-3816 Dated 16 April 62

CKA 134: Arturo Inte Rodriguez A 12 895 787 (SSS UFGA - 3865)
CKA 135: Jorge Pastorroll Comes A 12 895 206 (SSS UFGA - 3866/1)
CKA 136: Onelio Julian Garcia Gonsalves A 12 895 817 (SEX UFGA - 3866/8)
CKA 137: Jose Antonio Sadurni Casas A 12 895 903 (SSS UFGA – 3866/3)
CKA 138: Raul Sanchez Rodriguez A 12 895 074 (SEX UFGA - 3866/2)
CKA 139: Justino Pelayo Buncio Perez Poguerest A 12 895 872 (SEX UFGA-3866/5)
CKA 140: Ramon Alonso A 12-895 941 (SEX UFGA - 3848/6).
CKA 141: Emilio Alejandro Arrasseta A 12 895 266 (SEX FM - 3866/7)
CKA 142: Hector de la Penapueda Puentes A 12 490 361 (SSS UFGA 3846/3)
CKA 143: Manuel Qioda-Castillon A 12 895 566 (SSE UFGA - 3816/9)
CKA 144: Benigno Soriano-Hernandez A 12 675 850 (SSE UFGA – 3846/10)
CKA 145: Antonio Tomas Gonzalez Crespo A 12 895 929 (SIM UFGA - 3866/13)
CKA 146: Alejandro Profirio Camacho Gonzales: A 12.895.939 (SSS UFOL - 3356/22)
CKA 147: Joaquin Antonio Menas Jimenes: A 12 895 933 (SEE CFOA - 3865/23)
CKA 148: Antonio C. Samar Harretot A 12 903 024 (SSS UFGA - 3846/14)
CKA 149: Donald Apromith Boulett A 12 903 013 (SSS UFGA - 3866/15)
CKA 156: Alberto Romanies Dolst 12 895 949 (SEE TP34 - 3865/16)

SECRET
