14-00000
104-10175-10133

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SUBJECT: LIHUFF-1 (301- )
The attached explains the involvement of Subject in the circumstances surrounding the recruitment attempt and personal harassment of Soviet official RODENT (201-733422) in June, 1968.

The narrative is presented by Keith 06, of Cameron JOHNSON (201-837607), Dean of Men at the University of the Americas, who was deeply involved in the operation. While no apparent direct or serious damage to LIHUFF-1 resulted from this, it must be borne in mind that Johnson did rent his house from LIHUFF-1 and that if the Soviets ever had suspicions of LIHUFF-1's relations with the Station, L-1's appearance in these events might be viewed by the Soviets as possibly more than coincidence.

14-00000

LEVENDERS
After letting [RODENT] off on a dark side road, I parked my car nearby and then walked back to my house.

I knew that the old car, which we had and/policeman was there, so I crept through the bushes up to the wall, climbed over the back wall of my yard, and crept along the side keeping in the shadows and trying to see into my house to see if anybody was in there. I finally made my way to the back door. Looked in and determined that there was not anybody in there, but if there was I had every right to come into my own house, and I found that I was not particularly afraid so I decided to go in. I quietly opened the back door, came into the house, quickly looked around the corner into the bedroom and into the bathroom, and decided that there was not anybody in there.

I walked over and closed the front door, which was wide open, quickly drew the drapes and turned off the lights. I then changed into old clothes and tennis shoes, got a flashlight and walked over to the kitchen window, shined my flashlight into the face of one of the men sitting in the car just outside. I was only able to shine it on one man's face so I held it there for a little while then snapped it off and walked back to a good corner inside the house.

There I waited with the flashlight in hand knowing that the people outside could not enter through the front door and if they entered through the back door I'd be able to club one of them and kick the other one before either of them was able to do anything. I stood there and heard them come up to the front door and try the front door. But, when they were unsuccessful they didn't do any more or come around to the back. They then got into their car, started it up, turned it around and drove off. While they were turning around I went out the back door, climbed up on a sink, so I could see over the wall, and watched them drive off. I didn't really know how many people were outside. Nor did I know how many people had left in the car. Thinking that this might have been a decoy and that they might have left somebody behind. I silently climbed up on to the roof of the house and walked across the roof and peeped over the edge thinking that if there was one person left behind I could jump on him from the roof and seriously injure him. There was not anybody there so I left the house, walked up to the landlord's house, and told the family that there had been some strange people hanging around when I came home, that they had lunged for the car and made an obvious attempt to get at the door handle, and that I had no idea who they were etc.

14-00000

I was sufficiently scared and put the car in reverse, backed up and took it down and parked it out of sight. I explained that I had climbed over the back wall and so on. They were quite aware of the problem since they had observed, or thought they had observed, people hanging around the house all day. They pointed out to me too, that when their 18 year old son, Bill, was riding on horseback he encountered two men who had just arrived in a white Camaro driven by a middle-aged or younger blond lady. They got out of their car and walked up to my house. One of them, he said, was carrying a pipe and the other one was carrying a screwdriver. The son asked if he could help these men but they rushed him off saying that he couldn't. The two men peered in the front gate and stayed around, hanging around for quite a while until a blue Chevrolet appeared and two people got out of it and went inside the house. While these people were inside the house, the two men outside hung around near the house.

After spending sometime in the house, LIHUFF-1 reported to me two men came out and there was some confusion going on around the car and they couldn't seem to be able to start it. Finally, the two men who had been inside the house left and the other two men got in the car and left. None of the family was exactly sure what was going on except that there was confusion around the car. Eventually all the people left one way or another.

I said that I was very concerned about these people hanging around my house. That I didn't like the idea of people being inside my house and I wanted to call the police. Mrs. LIHUFF-1 said that she had called her husband and he was coming right home, and that, he had some very good contacts in [INPURE] and he would probably be able to help out in this matter. I agreed to wait until he got home and that I would go and get my car and bring it back home, which I then did. I spent the rest of the night with the LIHUFF-1s visiting and as quickly as possible I moved the conversation away from this to other completely unimportant things. I decided in the presence of LIHUFF-1 that there probably was not any reason to get concerned about this, that it was probably just some students trying to make me look foolish or something on that order.

14-00000

One thing that I forgot to mention was that Mrs. LIHUFF-1 was extremely upset because a tall blond man/a Mexican policeman came up to her house after the kids reported the people left. They reported that a car had been stolen. She asked who the blond man was, and he said he wanted to call his embassy. She brightened up and asked if he was an American, but he said no, "URS." One of the kids asked if "URS" meant U.R.S.S., and he made no attempt to hide the fact that he was from the Soviet Embassy. They barged in the house, and in fact it was later reported that he tried to talk to Mrs. LIHUFF-1 in Russian which upset her even more. The tall blond man used the telephone, and as far as Mrs. LIHUFF-1 knows, he did call his embassy.

Earlier, when I arrived at the University behind the Russian car, I told the Lt., for the University police force that I wanted the car towed away at 9:30 the next morning if it was still there at the time, and he said that he would be glad to if it was.

When I went to get my car after talking to the LIHUFF-1s around 23:30 hours. I did go down the road past the entrance to my house out to the main highway to look around. I went down as far as The Lady's Bar. When I passed the corner of the main highway and the road leading off from it to my house, I saw a blue Chevrolet which looked very much like the car we had pushed down to the University and some people standing around it including at least one uniformed policeman. I concluded that this was connected with this case. I went down to The Lady's Bar, turned around and came back up the main highway, but from a point considerably below from where that car was parked until considerably past it I kept a bus between those people and myself and I don't think, on the bases of later things, that they have said, that they saw me come back up the hill. The bus effectively shielded me all the way up. I went clear up to Cuajimalpa then and turned down the road that leads to my house so I didn't have to pass them again and went on in and parked my car inside the compound.

The next morning I went to the University at about 8 o'clock and noticed that the blue Chevy was gone from the parking lot. Then I worked until my secretary notified me that some Federal plainclothes policemen were there looking for [IDEN-E]. I immediately went to my office and found three or four Federal policemen outside the office and unfortunately the Lt. of our police
