```markdown
14-00000

104-10165-10084 —~ | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

E2 IMPDET CL BY 007622

CONFIDENTIAL
(When Filled in)

RESPONSE TO DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE REQUEST FOR SECURITY CHECKS

FROM: Clearance Support Branch, Personnel Security Division

TO: Domestic Contact Service, FO: MLAKI (MDQabria)

A1412370

FILE NUMBER 532652

DATE 17 May 1973

SUBJECT'S NAME:

Last: CISNEROS

First: Rogelio

Middle: Wenceslao

US CITIZEN: ☑

ALIEN: ☐

OTHER NAMES USED INCLUDING MAIDEN, ALIASES, ETC.: CISNEROS Diaz, Rogelio Wenceslav

THIS NOTICE IS VALID THRU 1578 (Mo-Yr.)

USE OF SUBJECT DURING THIS PERIOD BY OFFICES OTHER THAN DCS (except those having prior interest) MUST BE COORDINATED WITH DCS.

1.  Reference is made to your request for security checks on the Subject person. If the identifying information furnished is erroneous in any way, this division should be advised immediately. Checks based upon erroneous information are invalid.

2.  The necessary checks have been completed and no pertinent information has been obtained except as noted below:

CITIZEN:

☑ Passport data attached.

☐ Subject was last favorably investigated in.

☐ Denied Area Case: FBI Check was completed.

☐ Other NAC's were completed.

☐ This office has an objection to Subject being used in accordance with DCI's memorandum dated 25 November 1961.

☐ Summary of noteworthy information is attached for your consideration in determining the extent and need of your use of Subject.

ALIEN: This is not an approval for this alien's access to classified information.

☐ FBI has no objection to your preliminary contact with Subject. (Resubmit with full biographic data if contact is to continue.)

☐ FBI has no objection to continuing contact with Subject.

☐ Pertinent information has been developed, and is attached.

3.  This advisory on investigative results is for contact purposes only and is not to be construed as a clearance of Subject person beyond that.

4.  Coordination of prior covert interest:

☐ Not necessary

☐ No objection interposed by Chief Personnel Security Division

☐ Please contact.

5.  Remarks:

FOR DCS/HQS USE ONLY

APPROVED/SECRET

FORM 2941 2-70

USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

CONFIDENTIAL

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

SUBJECT:

NUMBER:

DATE:

The passport file of SUBJECT in: ☐ name as shown above; or the variation under was reviewed at the Passport Office, Department of State, with the following results:

BIRTH: On

PASSPORTS ISSUED:

Most recent- # issued on at for (time) travel to or residence in

for purpose of

SPOUSE: Name born at Married (date) and marriage not terminated; or terminated on

☐ ever married ☐

FATHER: Name born at

If foreign born, U. S. citizen: ☐ Yes ☐ No ☐ Deceased

MOTHER: Name born at

If foreign born, U. S. citizen: ☐ Yes ☐ No ☐ Deceased

PERMANENT RESIDENCE:

MAILING ADDRESS:

OCCUPATION:

Previous Over

☐ wife at 75, Suitland, MD., (Check if applicable)

"y" in circle indicates verification of information on Biol. Any discrepancies or variations are written in as shown on Passport application.

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

E 1 EMPOET CL ET 607622

CONFIDENTIAL

DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE REQUEST FOR SECURITY CHECKS

FROM: Clearance Support Branch, Personnel Security Division, Office of Security

TO: Domestic Contact Service, FO: MLAKI (100brie)

SUBJECT'S NAME:

Last: CISNEROS

First: Rogelio

Middle: Wenceslao

OS FILE NO. (OS Use Only)

DATE: 20 October 1972

US CITIZEN: ☑

ALIEN: ☐

OTHER NAMES USED INCLUDING MAIDEN, ALIASES ETC: CISNEROS Diaz, Rogelio Wenceslao

SEX: Male

DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH: 20 March 1927/Camaguey, Cuba

CITIZENSHIP (Country): US (Naturalized)

FULL NAME:

NATURALIZATION NUMBER, PLACE AND DATE: 9260615/16Lama, Florida/July 1963

DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH:

SPOUSE:

FATHER:

MOTHER:

FROM TO

SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER: 265-178-6136

ALIEN REGISTRATION NO.:

CITIZENSHIP:

RESIDENCES - COMPLETE ADDRESS (Current and last 5 years):

1963 1969 549 De Leon Drive, Miami Springs, Florida

1969 Present 264 Palmetto Drive, Miami, Florida

FROM TO EMPLOYMENTS (Current and last 5 years):

EMPLOYER'S NAME: ADDRESS:

1972 Present Reina Trading Corporation 5574 S.W. 8th Street Coral Gables, Florida

1970 Aug 1972 Colombia Institute of Language 1865 S.W. First Street Miami, Florida

FROM TO EDUCATION (College, Graduate):

NAME OF SCHOOL: DEGREE AND MAJOR:

PRIOR US GOVERNMENT SERVICE INCLUDING MILITARY:

OTHER GOVERNMENT AGENCY CLEARANCES HELD:

REMARKS:

FORM 2941 2-70

USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

CONFIDENTIAL

NEW REQUEST: ☑ RECHECK: ☐

OS NUMBER AND DATE (If a recheck): E532 652 - 22 Nov 67

26 OCT 1972

4 - DCS/HQ

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL
(When Filled in)

F14-12-37

Miami office

DATE: 22 December 1957

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director, Domestic Contact Service

SUBJECT: CISNEROS Diaz, Rogelio Wenceslav #532 652

1.  This will confirm our report that the FBI interposes no objection to the proposed interrogation of the Subject alien and is to inform you that security checks on Subject have been completed.

2.  The FBI has requested that they be advised if information of an intelligence nature, which may be of interest to that Bureau, is developed as a result of the contemplated interrogation.

3.  This is not a security clearance of this person.

4.  Any additional information we have obtained is attached and is submitted for your confidential use only. It is not to be disseminated outside of CIA.

CONTACT APPROVED (ALIEN)

FORM 1998 7-65

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

PERSONNEL SECURITY DIVISION Office of Security

CONFIDENTIAL

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000

DATE: 18 October 1967

TRANSMITTAL SLIP

TO: SERVICES DIVISION

ROOM NO. BUILDING

REMARKS:

Form 160 attached on: Rogelio Wenceslav CISTEROS Diaz

FROM: Mimi Field office/Acharneco

ROOM NO. FOLK-241

BUILDING

WHICH MAY BE USED

EXTENSION

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000

23 OCT 1967

Miami

(Charnice)

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 18 October 1967

NO.

BIOGRAPHIC DATA

1.  SUBJECTS LAST NAME - FIRST NAME - MIDDLE NAME: CISNEROS Diaz, Rogelio, Wenceslav

2.  ALIASES:

3.  DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH: 20 Mar 27/Camaguey, Cuba

4.  SEX: M

5.  CITIZENSHIP: Cuban

6.  FULL NAME OF SPOUSE, DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH, CITIZENSHIP:

7.  RESIDENCES (Including No., and Street, Zone, RFD., etc) COMPLETE ADDRESS:

TO:

1947 1959 Owner

1957 1959 teacher at private school in Camaguey

1960 1961 Coordinator in Camaguey for 26 July Movement

1961 Present Coordinator in Camaguey for Peoples Revolutionary Movement (Anti-Castro)

1961 1964 In exile in the US; present address 549 De Leon Drive, Miami Springs, Florida PHONE: 887-8830

8.  EMPLOYMENT

NAME OF EMPLOYER COMPLETE ADDRESS

Present Traveled considerably in the Caribbean area on JURE affairs

Present Post, Buckley, Mooney and Schub Inc., Engineers 225 Westward Drive Miami Springs, Florida

9.  EDUCATION (High school, college, graduate work, etc.)

NAME OF SCHOOL DEGREE OR MAJOR

CONTINUED ☐ CONTINUED ☐ CONTINUED ☐

23 OCT 1967

10. ADDITIONAL PERTINENT INFORMATION, INCLUDING FULL NAME, CITIZENSHIP DATA ON PARENTS AND CHILDREN.

A 12 406 212

Cisneros has five children 5 to 17 years old; foster daughter age 22, named Mirtha Borras.

FORM 160

USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

CONTINUED

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000

F. 14-12-37

(Vora Made in

DATE 11 November 1967

NEWSXxPg i

Chief, MIAMI FIELD OFFICE

CHARHECO

PHI Approval to Contact Alien

A141237

ELIO WENCESLAO CISNEROS

Security Liaison has informed us that the FBI has no objection to your proposed interrogation.

Security checks will be completed.

Thomas

VIRGINIA L. 190943

Security Liaison Officer

SECURITY LIAISON TRE_345

GROUP I

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

--- Page 8 ---

14-00000

A-14-12-37

ROGELIO WENCESLAO CISNEROS DIAZ

549 De Leon Drive

Miami Springs, Florida

Phone: 887-8830

BUSINESS:

Subject is with:

Al 1238 - Post, Buckley, Mooney and Schuh Inc., Engineers, 225 Westward Drive, Miami Springs, Florida

Subject is now affiliated with the following organization as of October 1972:

A172020 - Relma Trading Corporation, Coral Gables, Florida

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000

FIELD OFFICE

CONFIDENTIAL
(when filled in)

PROCESS SHEET FOR DCD COLLECTIONS

14-12-37

CASE NUMBER

FOR ARDED

O. DA.

12/23/24/25126

XG TIM

SUBJECT AND AREA

Construction and Expansion of Sugar Mills/Activities of Cuban Infiltrated Guerrillas and Agitators (Honduras)

CONTACT (Name, Title, Organization Address)

Rogelio Cisneros Reina Trading Co. 5574 S. W. 8th St. Coral Gables, Florida

SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

Same

INDIVIDUAL NO. 145

TYPE OO-E

GRAPHICS, MAPS, PUBLICATIONS, REPORTS, OTHER

RELEASED

MO DA.

40 41 42 4

SUBJECT

47 48 49 50

OECO

1 ST

POL

L

*

1 SUFFI

CIENTLY

WELL

KNOWN

2.  TOO

GENERAL

3.  DATA

SUPPLIED

4

BY OTHER

AGENCIES

SUB-SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

INDIVIDUAL NO.

4.  OTHER/MISC.

ORGANIZATION NO.

METHOD OF COLLECTION

EVALUATION

RE-LESTED FROM

INTERVIEW

TRIP REPORT

OTHER DOCUMENT

OTHER (Specify below)

INT CESK OFFICER (Metcalf)

CIA

CLA

X

OBJECTIVE REFERENCES

33.5 37 37214) 44.19

CHACE 12

Wesa-Soto:ljh

FORM 25 1-74

USE EDITIONS

HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS

CCI/WH/HS-3. WALLACE 6828

GER/D/LA- METZGER 4731

DDO/LA/SNH the 3B4402

cci/wH- D. Synch

Luis---I attempted to get a reaction from the analyst regarding the information in paragraph 2. Unfortunately there is a new analyst for Honduras who is now away on vacation and he left no second who understands the situation in Honduras. So rather than hold on to this report--I am returning * with no response from the anes

Fred

7-018.

PRANCHHIEF

BENXINGAR ING

CONFIDENTIAL

EZ IMPOET CL BY 007622

--- Page 10 ---

14-00000.

TEL

DETECTORATE OF OPERATIONS

DOMESTIC COLLECTION DIVISION

Intelligence Information Report

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws Title 12. U.S.C. Secs 773 and 79 or revelation of which in any manner to on unauthorized person is promoted by law.

COUNTRY: Honduras

DCD REPORT NO. 00-B-321/16864-75

SUBJECT: Construction and Expansion of Sugar Mills/activities of Cuban Infiltrated Guerrillas and Agitators.

DATE DISTR. 07 JUL 1975

NO. PAGES 1

REFERENCES: DCD Case 63307

DATE OF INFO. May 1975

PLACE & DATE ACQ. BY SOURCE: Tegucigalpa, Honduras/May 1975

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE: US citizen, executive of an import/export company with extensive business connections in Central America and the Caribbean. He makes frequent trips to these areas, and has contact with high ranking military and political leaders. He speaks Spanish fluently.

1.  The Government of Honduras (GOH) recently obtained a US$12 million loan from the Central American Bank of Economic Integration for the expansion of the Azucarera del Sur sugar mill located in Choluteca, Honduras. In addition, the GOH has purchased two sugar mills, one in Brazil and the other in Puerto Rico. The mills, bought at a cost of US$15 million each, will be dismantled and shipped to Honduras, where they will be reassembled with the aid of foreign technicians. Also, another sugar mill is to be built in the country at a cost of US$20 million; however, the Japanese Mitsubishi enterprise will be the major stockholder, while Honduran private businessmen will hold a minority interest. This is part of an expansion and modernization program by the GOH with hopes of obtaining a larger share of the world's sugar market.

2.  The GOH is somewhat concerned with the infiltration through Mexico and Guatemala of Communist agitators and guerrilla training personnel. These guerrillas, mostly Cubans who remained in the country after they had arrived allegedly to assist the GOH following Hurricane Fifi, are causing growing concern as a result of several uprisings and invasion of private lands by peasants in several parts of the country. The Cubans, who stayed in the country following Hurricane Fifi and others who have arrived clandestinely since that time, reportedly are training leftist militants and sympathizers among the Honduran peasants. The agitators and guerrilla instructors are taking advantage of growing unemployment and the overall poor national economic situation to stir the peasants into activity against the government.

end

YES

YES

CONTROLLED DISSEM

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

Classified by 007672 Exam

general classification of E.O. 11652.

Exemption category 58(2).

Impossible to determine date of auto

matic declassification.

NO DISSEM ABROAD

DCID 1,7 establishes the controls for the dissemination and use of the intelligence and intelligence information in this report The dissemination of this documented to civilian and active duty military personnel within the intelligence components of the 258 member agencies, and to senior officials of the member agencies who must act upon the information. However, unless specifically controlled in accordance with paragraph DCIO 1/7, it may be released to those components of the departments and agencies of the U.S. Government directly participating in the products of National Intelligence Dissemination of this report outside the Sacters of the United States, or to any organization, specified obase, forbidden without the macic approval of the Domestic Collection Division, Directorate of Operations

--- Page 11 ---

14-00000

FIELD OFFICE

CONFIDENTIAL
(when filled in)

PROCESS SHEET FOR DCD COLLECTIONS

FOR ARCED

CASE NUMBER

10. 14-12-37

XM TIM

SUBJECT AND AREA

Negotiations for Economic Agreement with Venezuela/Influential Officers in National Defense Council (Honduras).

CONTACT (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

Rogelio Cisneros Reina Trading Company. 5574 S. W. 8th St. Coral Gables, Florida

SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

Same

INDIVIDUAL NO. 45

ORGANIZATION NO.

TYPE OPE

GRAPHICS, MAPS, PUBLICATIONS, REPORTS, CYMER

SUBJECT

47 40 40 50

OECO

1 ST

POL

L

*

1 SUFFH

CIENTLY

WELL

KNOWN

2.  TOO

GENERAL

3.  CATA

RELEASED

13. DA. VR

45 41 42.14344

4 NOT

CISSENT

NATED

SUPPLIED

AGENCIES

PROCESSING ELEMENT

51 52 53 54

4.  OTHER/MISC.

E.

NIT

.

3 $ $

.

*   *

BY OTHER

.

16

SUB-SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

INDIVIDUAL NO.

5

*   c

6

GEO

*   *

GRGANIZATION NO.

*   *

$

METHOD OF COLLECTION

PEQUESTED FROM

5.  COMBINED WITH

C. INSUFFICIENT

INTEREST

RESPONSIVE TO STEIPIE

REQUIREVENTS

INTERVIEW

OTHER DOCUMENT

SUP SREE

DIRECTED TO

FIELD.COMMENTS

KIA

51

OBJECTIVE REFERENCES

95 56 57 562 63 64;49:00

151

Liesa-Soto:1jh/

FORM 25 :8-24

USEOUS

EZIGNS

TRIP REPORT

OTHER (Specify below)

INT CESK OFFIZER (Metcalf)

RTS COM

OC // WH/He - I WALLACE

оспанна 6828

*   *

DDG / LA /CNH the ass (HALE) 304402

OEK/D/LA- METZGER

Z

7-018

FX Pluiten

IMPOET CL BY 007622

ZEMAINWARING-

CONFIDENTIAL

--- Page 12 ---

14-00000

DETECTORATE OF CPERATIONS

DOMESTIC COLLECTION DIVISION

Intelligence Information Report

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage lows Tire 18, U.S.C. Sets 793 and 794, the transmission or reviction of which is any canner to on wouthorized person is prohibited by law.

COUNTRY: Honduras

SUBJECT: Negotiations for Economic Agreement with Venezuela/Influential Officers in National Defense Council

DCD REPORT NO. 00-B-321/16716-75

DATE DISTR. 03 JUL 1975

NO. PAGES 1

REFERENCES: DCD Case 63307

DATE OF INFO. May 1975

*PLACE & DATE ACQ. BY SOURCE: Tegucigalpa, Honduras/May 1975

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE: US citizen, executive of an import/export company with extensive business connections in Central America and the Caribbean. He makes important tries to these areas and has contact with high ranking military and political leaders. He speaks Spanish fluently.

1.  The new military regime in Honduras currently is holding talks with Venezuela and hopes to sign an economic agreement in the very near future. With that mind, the Government of Honduras (GOH) recently sent a high level commission to Venezuela headed by Captain Armando San Martin, Secretary of State for Economy and Commerce and by Attorney Antonio Jose Cuello to hold discussions with high ranking Venezuelan Government officials. Prior to the talks, the GOH recently sold to Venezuela 25 million linear feet of lumber at a total cost of US$5 million. The GOH hopes to reach an agreement by which Venezuela would buy Honduran agricultural products for an unspecified mix of cash and petroleum products. In addition, Venezuela would support a new agricultural production plan to be implemented in the very near future by Fernando Montes, Honduran Secretary of State for Agriculture.

2.  Despite reports that Chief Executive Colonel Juan Alberto Melgar Castro has unquestioned authority, Honduran military sources have indicated that Mario Maldonado, Agrarian Reform Chief; Lieutenant Colonel Mario Fonseca, Director of the Military Academy, and Lieutenant Colonel Juan Ramon Molina Cisneros, Commander of the First Artillery Battalion are the real "power behind the throne." These officers, who profess a strong nationalist ideology, are interested simply in the general welfare of the Honduran people, and they are maintaining a "watchdog" attitude to insure that no one, especially people in positions of power, uses such positions for his own personal benefit. These officers are members of the National Defense Council (NDC), which also includes the commanders of all major military units in the country. Maldonado, Fonseca, and Molina appear to be the "first among equals" in the 15 member NDC.

end

Classified by 007622.

Exempt from general declassification schedule of E.O. 11052

Exemption category Sch

Impossible to determine date of auto matic declassification.

YES

YES

CONTROLLED DISSEM

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

NO DISSEM ABROAD

DCID 1,7 establishes me control; for the dissemination and use of the intelligence and intelligence information in this report. The disemmat oh of this document is limited to cinias and active duty military personnel within the intelligence component of the USIB member agencies, and to thos serior officials of the member ages who mint out upar the interesohen. However, unless specifically controlled in accordance with poregraph & o DOO 1/7, it may be used to these components of the departments and agencies of the US Government directly participating in the products of Nasional Intelligence. Damnation of this report which the States of the United States or to any individual or organization, other than those

--- Page 13 ---

14-00000

FIELD OFFICE

CONFIDENTIAL
(when filled in)

PROCESS SHEET FOR DCD COLLECTIONS

CASE NUMBER

FORMARCE 14-12-37

::

SUBJECT AND AREA

Current Political and Economic Situation/Expected Nationalization of Fishing Industry/Leftist Influence in Cabinet (Honduras)

CONTACT (Name, Title Org.zation Address)

Rogelio Cisneros Diaz Reina Trading Co. 5574 S. . 6th Street Coral Gables, Florida

SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

Same

INDIVIDUAL NO. 45 TYPE OOE

MARS,

#NOT

SISSEM

DATED

PBLICATION.

PORT, CTHER

ORGANIZATION NO.

SUBJECT

*

1.  SUFFI

CIENTLY

OECOWELL

SPOL

KNOAN

2.  TOO

GENERAL

3.  DATA

MO

PROCESSING

ELEMENT

52 53 54

10

RE

N T

3

*   S

$

SUPPLIED

BY OTHER

A

L N

SUB-SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization. Addi

INDIVIDU NO

AGENCIES

$

*   FOR

*   * E

4.  OTHER/MASC.

7

*   *

*   5.  COMBINED WITH

ORGANIZATION NO.

*   *

*   *

METHOD OF COLLECTION

EVALUATION

REQUESTED FROM

X

INTERVIE

TRIP REPORT

OTHER DOCUMENT

OTHER (Specify below)

SUP SPEE INT

DIRECTED TO

DESK OFFICER (Metcalf)

Oc.

FIELD COMMENTS

KIB 52

52"

OBJECTIVE REFERENCES

35 36 37 38 9662 64 15:00

Desa-Soto:1jh

FORM 25 1-74

USE PREVIOUS

Cons

CHEMAINWARING

*   *

6.  INSUFFICIENT

INTEREST

RESPONSIVE TO SPECIFIC

REQUIREMENTS

ARTERS COMMENTS

Wallace

*#65-28 HQ

PD07384402 HO-CHLA/CAM

FAL DREISONSTOR

CHEFFINATE TAKU CRNE WALE

OSS R 900

DER-4831 SPALDING

10/LA

JFF

EM.

CONFIDENTIAL

7-018

120-411

IMPDET CL BY 007622

--- Page 14 ---

14-00000

DIRECTORATE OF OPERATIONS

DOMESTIC COLLECTION CSION

Intelligence Information Report

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Lows Title 18, U.S.C. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any mannor to on unvorced person is prohibited by law.

COUNTRY: Honduras

SUBJECT: Current Political and Economic Situation/Expected Nationalization of Fishing Industry/Leftist Influence in Cabinet

DCD REPORT NO. 00-324/06715-75

DATE DISTR. 1 APR 1975

NO. PAGES 1

REFERENCES:

DATE OF INFO. February 1975

PLACE & DATE ACQ. BY SOURCE: Tegucigalpa/February 1975

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE: US national, executive of an import-export company. He is a frequent traveler to Central and South America where he has developed good contacts in the political and business sectors. He speaks Spanish fluently.

1.  Businessmen in Honduras have reported that the economic and political situation in the country, currently in a sad state of affairs, is bound to become worse as a result of the indifference being exhibited by President Oswaldo Lopez Arellano. On the economic side, the private business sector is quite concerned about an expected government move to nationalize the fishing industry. Some foreign firms already are pulling out of the country and moving to nearby countries like Nicaragua and El Salvador. On the political side, President Lopez has failed to name a permanent foreign minister since November 1974, when Cesar Batres occupied that post. Ricardo A. Pineda is performing those duties on an interim basis. The President also has undermined Honduran youth by giving in to the demands of the leftist-controlled labor unions. He gives businessmen the impression that he does not know much about government; consequently, the situation in the country has become very unstable.

2.  Apparently, the regime in Honduras wants to emulate the current Peruvian Government in failing to even consider elections at all. In fact, the government, which is controlled by the military, has three pro-left ministers in the cabinet. They are Manuel Acosta Bonilla, Secretary of State for Finance; Guatama Fonseca Zuniga, Secretary of State for Labor and Social Security, and Manlio Martinez Cantor, Executive Secretary, Planning Board. At one time, Acosta was the private secretary of the Mexican leftist leader Vicente Lombardo Toledano, so he has been thoroughly indoctrinated along Marxist lines.

end

YES

YES

CONTROLLED DISSEM

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

Classified by 007622.

Exempt from general declassification schedule of E.O 11652.

Exemption category 58(2):

Impossible to determine date of automatic declassification.

NO DISSEM ABROAD

DCID 17 stablishes the controls for the dissemination and use of the intelligence and mailigence information in this report. The dissemination of this document is limited to avilion and active duty miktory personnel within the intelligence mponents of the USIS member agencies, and to thos senior officials of the member agencies who must act upon the information. However, unless specialty controlled in accordance with paragraph & of DCIO 1/7, it may be released to those components of the departments and agencies of the US: Government directly participating in the production of National Intelligence. Dissemination of this report outside the States of the United States to any individual or organization, other than these specified above, is forbidden without the specific opproval of the Domestic Collection Division, Directorate of Operations.

--- Page 15 ---

14-00000

FIELD OFFICE

SECRET
(When Filled in)

14-12-37

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS

FOR FIELD USE ONLY

FOR HEADQUARTERS USE ONLY

FORWARDED

B.REQ. CODE

c.

11 12 13 14 15

CASE NUMBER

MO. DA. YR

16 17 18 19 20

22 23 24 25 20

27 226 30 31 32 33

34 35 36

☑NIM -

11072

D. SUBJECT AND AREA

Horacio Moya Posas, Agrarian Reform Director/Rigoberto Sandoval in Italy/His Attitude Towards the US (Honduras)

E. CONTACT Name, Title, Organization, Address)

Rogelio Wenceslao Cisneros

Rele Trading Corporation, 5574 S.W. 8 St. Coral Gables, Fla.

ORGANIZATION NO.

PE 00-E

GRAPHICS, MAPS,

PLICATIONS, REPSATS, OTHER

DISSEMI

MATED

F. SOURCE (Xame, Title, Orgusation, Address)

Same

INDIVIDUAL NO.

*   *

SUBJECT

1.  SUFFI

47:48.49 SCICIENTLY

*ELL

AREA

51 52 53 54

G. SUB-SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

INDIVIDUAL NO.

*   *

ORGANIZATION NO.

3

.

H. METHOD OF COLLECTION

☑ INTERVIEW..

☐ OTHER DOCUMENT

TRIP REPORT

EVALUATION

REQUESTED FROM

USSR ONLY

EXCHANGES

(CHECK UNE)

NO

RESPONSIVE TO SPECIFIC

REQUIREMENTS

OTHER (specify below)

TO USSR

FROM USSR

IRS

ALIEN OSS SOV INT

CASE OFFICER

HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS

DIRECTED TO

X

RHeller

FIELD COMMENTS.

-

Arby report

FORM

DEET CL BY 007622

Copied to:

001- s. Rufty 66728

DIA - DI-503

CRS MB-877

Pentagon 7-98

F.O. CHIEF

Cubriathan MOC BEMAINWARING

USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

CASE OFFICER

Hacke

SECRET

DIVISION/STAFF/DESK

M. H. Snitzer

GROUP I

ENCED FROM AUTOMATE

ADING AND DECLAS

120-41

2

--- Page 16 ---

14-00000

DIRECTORATE OF INTELLIGENCE

Intelligence Information Report

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, USC Sec 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an houthorized person is prohibited by law.

COUNTRY: Honduras

SUBJECT: Horatio Moya Posas, Agrarian Reform Director/Rigoberto Sandoval in Italy/His Attitude Towards the US

REPORT NO. ✗00-321/33419-72

DATE DISTR. 14 NOV 1976

NO. PAGES 1

REFERENCES: DIEM NO.: 1-7-88 (2356)

DATE OF INFO. October 1972 and earlier

PLACE & DATE ACQ. BY SOURCE: Honduras/1972

SOURCE: THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

Naturalized US citizen who has worked and lived in Honduras for a number of years. He has numerous social contacts and business connections with officials of the government, the Armed Forces and the business community.

[This report was developed by an Army representative assigned to the office of preparation.]

1.  Horacio Moya Posas is the present director of Agrarian Reform in Honduras. He is inefficient and lacks some of the necessary qualifications for that position. In spite of his being a lawyer by profession, he is not astute, is only of average intelligence, is far from decisive, and frequently vacillates when called upon to make decisions. He is, however, extremely anti-Communist. His deputy director is Roberto Oliva. He is no asset. He has no outgoing personality whatsoever, and in fact, he is rather innocuous. One thing that can be said in his favor is that he is reported to be a good engineer.

2.  The previous Agrarian Reform director was Rigoberto Sandoval. He is an extremely capable lawyer, very sagacious, intelligent and he displayed great foresight in that position. His present and future course of life is worth observing closely because a possibility does exist that he may be a candidate for an important political position in the not too distant future. To date Sandoval has not mentioned which political position he plans to seek. Another reason for observing his is that be is exceedingly anti-US.

3.  If Sandoval does decide to seek a political office, it would most probably be General Oswaldo Lopes Arellano who would sponsor him.

4.  Early in October 1972 a US importer-exporter received a very pleasant personal letter from Rigoberto Sandoval. By the tone of the letter one would judge that a close relationship has existed between them for some time. Sandoval stated that he was in Italy working for the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), and that for the present his stay there was for an indefinite period. He enclosed a long list of items which he requested the US importer-exporter to send to him immediately if at all possible. The list consisted mostly of furniture, household furnishings, electrical appliances, etc.

end

E 2 IMPDET CL BY 907622

YES

CONTROLLED DISSEM

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

YES

NO DISSEM ABROAD

The dissemination of this document is limited to civilian employees and active duty military personnel within the intelligence components of the USB member agencies, and to those senior officials of the member agencies who must act upon the information. However, unless specifically con- trolled in accordance with paragraph 8 of DCID 1/7, is may be released to those components of the departments and agencies of the U.S. Government directly participating in the production of National Intelligence. IT SHALL NOT BE DISSEMINATED TO CONTRACTORS. It shall not be disseminated to organizations or personnel, including consultants, under a contractual relationship to the U. S. Government without the written permission of the originator.

--- Page 17 ---

14-00000-

A. FIELD OFFICE

SECRET
(When Filled In)

14-12-37

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS

FOR FIELD USE ONLY

FOR HEADQUARTERS USE ONLY

FORWARDED

9.  REQ. CODE

c.

11 12 13 1