14-00000

104-10111-10079 | | | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DAVID CHRIST
3/0
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only.
Do Not Reproduce
14 August 1951

Malmsley, 16 37
1960, X
Grint was sent to with a sling at tha
arlet bedrag Ute bl
by har
of the factions or
His
Matice Bold. Thi
partes in the afte
carity and
hand in Qlar of the fact
af de st
14.
yota of the orsselation,
smrebaxded by the Cube 64.
to ;
Adet Fistu
My officer
me of the apat (Bondio))
read out is to varion
Geist was also told
at the time of the fatal.
coal Indso that he
Cheist was gira »
Fe mas elized
one coneddieuble damige to the be
alee and probably
down and probably the Rasats
Matiore velving bor
aratie a resible at Hr. Qrist
core restration, recents Associates,
Located in Few York (Ly and bad boy mytie Ma dis documentation,
oglal Fortelty. 147. Grit ushar
stood the resture for this grand sig gir de box bred to
se as a techalor than to it the data of a faily. At time
the brocate or citiuse of started technicians, prior to
thats errent, to discussed wi fr. Cotes. Mrs. Christ was inferist

14-00000

C/PU
that in the murt of dayer the develatere placed to esespa to
agastszet whisis was operated by an undiing State Department sccntezy,
Has se Litial rising,
additigent informatie, bly frou o iicles, beat the
then af stor til. It is toll
ha grafually picked op
that Mrs. Crist lus nat
ative informatica about the
ta tale
rewi
easy bad
the trial, that ittle
eriously diecersed with
cat cam tos Lutzorted in the
Aty repoused in the
The Cat the tank (bardia) rebated to Masking, G.,
sted not to eh ey
bed cabected the getomes bly ster Usi
Wast in Kando ho will of the Vatedctore tra Latily sad
dle to retally brandt isief
ge
estritter in behalf of the baddelers and
with gating mic, vitantes, apre, conty and
as the technielums attorney, a
23.00
a that ta
is de 1901 and no bora bra
Ingten, D.G. A
ed the Gererament pertemale has been told that mother Qubes attem
the hired by Dr. Cetear to repent the tachatelema wand tendle the
when the seal is hart. It is not intended that its
Lagu siges tan haidagtes attorzy, K. Augly, but she
exelated du th
Grist 14.
fire. Cute tee lasened from agerer articles that are se
Jules of C's of Pies and that conditions
the prizma ere ariely porn. See that food la broad
to the techuicheze by a Obas 1979 scale na oscile à cell with the
see edvised that . Cela say the tediatetang
dea diye grier to ke deparimes Cat (5y were in goed mirity and
Bust 12, Gatst secuaiamily worked in the prison,
bands of ifie patiens sigiated w
to ebiela bar and relucee, fire. Orist as from

14-00000
caly ese freet
offered to
of the turto
Bare of the
the offer was never
also knows that we bare tried several
of sy detalla of wo
acy in p
Chelat cimally greational an
to that action bes
to tie this fuld be cribed est.
caldly be tall
vage bang sleetly unitored and that than
aless the political alte
orte ober,
regarding
is to be
planted
the reemipt of
bind the ning Dazeey in w
plays and the 10 peräge salch ta oma to
data na po resubred by the Sits, cod therefore, no fætla
cotadle vide bro tem discusses cíti
be done if they were fundatly weled to Kre. Crist,
prints which
Details of prodat or f
effect the release of the
etterner bundling the
operati
