14-00000
104-10105-10137 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
☐ UNCLASSIFIED ☐ CONFIDENTIAL ☐ SECRET

UTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional) Review for Approval - Manuscript Submitted by Mr. David A. Phillips
FROM: J. F. Meehan EXTENSION NO. 7770 DATE 5 Jan 1976
C/EAB, 4E33 Hq.
TO: (Officer designation, room number, and DATE FORWARDED INITIALS
building). OFFICER'S COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)
1. C/CCS 8 JAN
GH-44, Att: Mr. H. Schor
2. J.F. MEEHAN
3. C/EAB 4E33
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.

Subject, a retired Agency staff employee and former C/LA Div., has submitted the attached manuscript containing three (3) chapters of a book he has in preparation. Coordination for review and comment is requested to determine if the material: (1) is classified, (2) was learned while the writer was employed by the Agency, or (3) has not been placed in the public domain by the Agency.

Please note author's query for information contained in paragraph 3 of his letter FYI. The author had previously submitted Chapters I and VIII which were security approved with deletions.

Coordination for review is being conducted with LA Div.
CI Staff, CCS, DDO/SS/SOG, and DDO/SSU.
It would be appreciated if this office could have your comments before COB 16 Jan 1976.

CCS 7 JAN 1976
SIX CCS COMMENTS ON REVERSE SIDE

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

1 to 9:
CCS recommends deletion of that part of the last sentence, following the semi-colon of the first paragraph on page 10 of Chapter XI, which identifies (Camp Perry) as the site of Agency training courses. (Camp Perry is an Agency training installation under DOD cover), and while its CIA affiliation has been alleged numerous times in the press, no confirmation of this affiliation has been made by the Agency. Mr. Phillips' comments as a former senior Agency officer can be interpreted as constituting official acknowledgement of the CIA/CAMP PERRY relationship.

HCS
