14-00000

104-10172-10107

[2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME:
VOL. II
201-128561

INCLUSIVE DATES: Jun 51-55

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:
ROOM:

SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL:
DATE:
RECEIVED:
RETURNED:
REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME):

3/3/78 Betsy Wolf
8/7/78 Betsy Wolf
15 MAY JOHANNA SMITH
23 MAY 23 MAY

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.

VOL II

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

SECRET

Chief CI/SRS

S. B. Johnson

DCE-17437

22 September 1955

James A. PERRY

$90178

James A. PERRY, Jr., mailed two letters from Washington, D. C., on 29 June 1955, one to his father, and another to Severino D. GOMEZ; however, in so doing, PERRY placed the letter to his father in the envelope addressed to GOMEZ, and the letter to GOMEZ in the envelope addressed to his father.

When the letters were received by PERRY, Sr. and GOMEZ, both noting the error, they exchanged letters. However, GOMEZ considered the contents of the letter he had at first received important enough to turn over to his brother M. Leal GOMEZ, who in turn referred it to the Boston Office of the FBI.

The letter, in substance, indicated that while PERRY was serving in South America, under cover for this Agency, he had revealed his true status to his wife's father, Mr. CONSALVES, on a visit to South America, and who later had revealed this information to PERRY's father. Following PERRY's father having become knowledgeable of PERRY's true status, in correspondence he indicates that therein he might have intimated that his work was not so hush-hush, and that on that basis PERRY's father "had dropped his guard" in effect, and had told others of PERRY's true status. This letter was a warning to PERRY's father that he should attempt to correct the indiscretion of revealing PERRY's status while he was in South America. The letter refers to other letters which PERRY indicates contained information revealed through indiscretion on his part, and which he asks his father to destroy.

According to our records, PERRY was granted an Operational Clearance on 22 May 1953, for use as a sitting informant or as a contract agent from September 1953 to February 1955 in Brazil under DISCOVER.

He is of Portuguese extraction, and he or his father had changed the family name prior to attendance at Northeastern University.

He attended Northeastern University from 1947 to 1951 and received an AB Degree; Boston University from 1951 to 1952 where he received an MA Degree in Latin American Studies; and at Vanderbilt University from 1952 to 1953 where he received a Ph.D.

HALPERIN was described by most informants as no more than professor-student relationship.

201-128561

SECRET file in

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000

SECRET

the letter intended for PERRY's father, advised the FBI that he, GOMEZ, had attended Boston University during the period PERRY was studying under HALPERIN. GOMEZ was of the opinion that the HALPERIN-PERRY relationship was more than just the professor-student type because PERRY saw HALPERIN during the evenings, but never told GOMEZ what he discussed with HALPERIN.

GOMEZ also advised that about June 1953, just before PERRY's departure for Rio de Janeiro, PERRY called HALPERIN on the telephone and at that time HALPERIN was under investigation. PERRY told GOMEZ that HALPERIN was in a predicament, and that he, PERRY, felt sorry for him. Earlier PERRY had told GOMEZ that HALPERIN had a lot of influence in Washington, and was going to get a job for PERRY.

201-128561

According to the FBI, the HALPERIN mentioned above, appears identical with Maurice Ryan HALPERIN, former employee of OSS, identified in November 1945 by Elizabeth BENTLEY as having furnished information for transmittal to the Soviets.

PERRY recently contacted this Agency requesting permission to state that he had worked for the Agency in his application for employment with USIA. WH Division, to whom this request was forwarded, was advised that PERRY was not to disclose his past employment with this Agency. WH Division, in turn, informed Security of their desires that USIA be informed of PERRY's past connections with this Agency.

Security, on the basis of the above request by WH Division, contacted the appropriate person in USIA and advised them on a controlled basis of PERRY's former affiliation with this Agency.

SRS/SBJ:pril

S. B. Johnson

201-128561

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT: American Communists in Mexico and Their Contacts

DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.: HMM-1300
DATE OF INFO.: 12 Sept - 21 Oct 55

SOURCE CRYPTONYM: LITHOSPHERE
DATE: 31 Oct 55
EVALUATION: B-Doc
ANALYST: D. Heron

RI FILE NO.: HY-1117

CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE:
DATE PROCESSED:
DISSEMINATED IN: 13-Sept 57

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION:
TRANSFERRED TO:
RI FILE NO.:

PERTINENT INFORMATION:
Report from Mexico City, Mexico

VERBATIM:
The following information concerning American Communists in Mexico and their contacts has been developed.

1. On 12 September a meeting was held of stockholders in the ice cream business which functions under the management of the American Communist, Robert STRAND. This business is believed actually to be owned by the leading American Communist, Frederick Vanderbilt FIELD. The meeting was held at the home of STRAND, and was attended by the American Communists Maurice HALPERIN and Noah SEBORER and possibly by other stockholders.

FORM NO. 867
FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.
SECRET

31 Oct 55
201-128561
201-128561

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

DATE: 19 JUL 55

TO: MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

INFO: CI/OPS, CI/IC, FI, FI/CFS, S/C 2

DIR 19470 (OUT 57183)

ROUTINE

CITE: DIR

HOLD FOR IDENTIFICATION

JAMES LEIGH WHITE FORMER NEWSPAPER CORRESPONDENT AND AUTHOR SINCE 1939, IN MEXICO CITY JUNE-AUGUST 1941, WIFE MARIA CARROCERA WHITE BORN 1911 SPAIN; SYLVIA AGELOFF, MISTRESS OF JACQUES MORNARD AND REPORTEDLY IN MEXICO CITY AT TIME TROTSKY MURDER, SISTERS HILDA AND RUTH CONSTANZA DE LA MORA ALLEGEDLY KILLED IN GUATEMALA; FERNANDO DE LOS RIOS BORN SPAIN 1879, SPANISH REPUBLICAN AMBASSADOR TO U.S. 1937-39, REPORTED RECENT YEARS REPRESENTATIVE SPANISH JUNTA OF LIBERATION, MEXICO CITY; ALVAREZ DEL VAYO FORMER SPAIN 1891 WAS ACTIVE SPANISH REFUGEE ACTIVITIES IN NEW YORK, SON JUAN IN LONDON WWII; JULIAN GORKIN PROMINENT TROTSKYITE IN U.S. AND SPAIN IN 1930'S WRITER CLOSE TO TROTSKY PRIOR TO MURDER; NANCY INSTONE REPORTED KEY CP OFFICIAL IN MEXICO COORDINATING OFFICES

19 Jul

201-128561

SECRET

RELEASING OFFICER
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000

SECRET

19 JUL 55

PAGE 2.

AND OPERATED HOTEL MEXICO CITY WITH HUSBAND ARCHIBALD JOHNSTONE WHO WAS FORMERLY WITH LONDON NEWS CHRONICLE AND SAID TO BE IN RUSSIA AT PRESENT MAXIM LEIDER ALIAS LEERMAN BORN 1897 WARSAW REPORTED LIVING CUERNAVACA, MEXICO IN 1951 WITH ALBERT MALTZ FORMERLY OF HOLLYWOOD, ACCUSED BY CHAMBERS OF SETTING UP SOVIET COVER COMPANY 1934, HAS HAD CONNECTIONS WITH ANNA/SEGHERS AND BODO UHSE, FRANK JELLINEK AND HANS HOFFMAN WHO WAS REPORTEDLY TREATING ANNA SEGHERS

LEIBER 1953 FOR PSYCHIATRIC DISTURBANCE, WIFE MINNA REPORTED TEACHING AMERICAN SCHOOL MEXICO CITY 1953, REPORTED IN CONTACT WITH MAURICE HALPERIN. WAS RECIPIENT FROM POLISH BANK WARSAW 1953; VITTORIO VIDALI ALIAS CARLOS CONTRERAS HEAD OF CP TRIESTE INTERMITTENTLY IN U.S. AND MEXICO DURING 1940'S. SUSPECTED DIRECTLY MURDER TROTSKY; PONCIELLE MA VILLAC DOLLIACD ALLEGEDLY ONE OF CORRESPONDING SECRETARIES OF JUAN NEGRIN 1937-39. REPORTEDLY IN LONDON 1945

SECRET

RELEASING OFFICER
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

--- Page 8 ---

14-00000

SECRET

19 JUL 55

PAGE 3

AND SUBSEQUENTLY IN MEXICO RELATIVES INCLUDING (2) QUIN VILLACID MARRIED TO FORMER SPANISH REPUBLICAN DIPLOMAT JOSE DARCAGO (3) PEPE VILLACID WHO WAS REPORTED IN MEXICO CITY 1943; FRANK JELLINEK CORRESPONDENT OVERSEAS NEWS AGENCY 1943 IN MEXICO.

(END OF MESSAGE)

SECRET

CHIEF, CI

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

--- Page 9 ---

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

COP, DD/P-IAR, FI, FI/OPS, FI/STC, SRS, FIL

DIR 6783 (OUT 95521)

JEN PA 1756 (XN 23635)

2 NOV 55

THEODR

--- Page 10 ---

14-00000

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT: Noah SEBORER and Family

DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.: HMM-1117
DATE OF INFO.: 6 June 1955

SOURCE CRYPTONYM: LITHOSPHERE
DATE:
EVALUATION: B-Doc
ANALYST: D. Heron

RI FILE NO.: HY-1117

CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE:
DATE PROCESSED:
DISSEMINATED IN: 9 Sept 57

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION:
TRANSFERRED TO:
RI FILE NO.:

PERTINENT INFORMATION:
Report from Mexico City, Mexico
Date of Info: 12 Feb - 12 May

VERBATIM:
II. Contacts
Set out below is a listing of contacts known to have been made by Noah and Anne SEBORER during the period covered in this report:

Maurice HALPERIN was dismissed from Boston University because of refusal to answer questions before a Congressional Committee. With him in Mexico are his son, David, his wife Edith and, at least during part of April, his or his wife's father. Noah SEBORER supplied Yiddish newspapers for the father to read. The HALPERINS dined at the SEBORERS 14 May 1955. HALPERIN is believed to be engaged in the trucking transportation business in connection with the firm E.A. Ojeda at Isabel la Catolica 38-610.

FORM NO. 867
FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.
SECRET

6 Jun 55
201-128561
201-128561
