```markdown
14-00000
104-10187-10014

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MESSAGE FORM
SECRET

ROUTING
October 1986 FILE IN CS FILE NO. 50-6-74/5
Mexico
DIRECTOR
WH
DEO SE?, PG2, zong <3/0A, VR, FILE
SIG CEN
TOP
LIEMPTY
INFO
RKY: MEXI 1307 (IN 96996)*
CITT BER
58997

1. HDQS AGREES IN PRINCIPLE THAT LIMITED BLDG SHOULD BE RAZED
RATHER THAN REPARED. YOUR PARA THREE PROPOSAL OF COMMERCIAL INCOME
NETTING VENTURE WOULD IMMEDIATELY MAKE THIS ASPECT OF LIEMPTY A
PROPRIETARY WITH ATTENDANT SPECIAL ADMIN HANDLING. UNLESS THERE ARE
OVERRIDING SECURITY AND OPS CONSIDERATIONS VS PREFER NOT DO THIS.
HOWEVER IF FINAL DECISION IS TO BUILD STORE AND TWO APARTMENTS, HDQS
SUGGESTS LIMITED BE MADE SEPARATE (FROM LIEMPTY) PROPRIETARY SUPPORT
PROJ IN ORDER REDUCE CONFUSION OF TWO TYPES ACCOUNTING UNDER ONE PROJ.

2. HDQS STRONGLY BELIEVES PREFERABLE SOLUTION WOULD BE MERELY
REBUILD HOUSE ON SAME LAND FOR OCCUPANCY BASEHOUSE KEEPERS. THIS WILL
NOT INVOLVE PROPRIETARY. ALSO WOULD BE MORE SECURE FROM STANDPOINT
SOV COUNTERMEASURES.

3. ALTERNATE SOLUTION IS SELL LIMITED PROPERTY TO LIMOUSINE AT
FAIR MARKET VALUE DETERMINED BY INDEPENDENT APPRAISAL WITH UNDERSTANDING
HE BUILD AN APARTMENT ON SECOND FLOOR WHICH HE WILL LET US ON LONG TERM
LEASE.

EXEX CONTINUED
ELORRI KAZIRO OFFICER
RELEASING OFFICER
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000
ORG: C. Bustos-Videla: jah
UNIT. WH
MESSAGE FORM
SECRET
B & C & E T
ROUTING
FILE BY CS FILE NO. 50-6-74/5
EXT
DATE: October 1986
TO DIRECTOR
A
Page 8
1970
58997
BLUEPRINTS FOR ANY BUILDING TO BE CONSTRUCTED WITH EUBARK
FUNDS MUST RECEIVE HDQS APPROVAL. THIS APPROVAL AND PROJ ARGENSIENT
MUST BE OBTAINED PRIOR TO ANY COMMITHECIT FUNDS. ESTIMATED TIME FOR
TOTAL APPROVAL AFTER RECEIPT PLANS IS HOPEFULLY TWO MONTHS.
SHOULD NOT BE RAZED UNTIL APPROVAL GRANTED.
END OF MESSAGE

HDQS Comment: LIMITED photo basehouse which has deteriorated
and Station suggests rase building and rebuild with
a store en 1st floor and two apts upstairs at seat by $85.000.

VH/H Carter (draft)
SA/O/WS (draft) Lyon
CI/OPS (draft) Overforde
DOP/PG (date) Morand
WH/FI/Borton (draft)
C/WH/SB/Brooks (draft)
VH/Log/Malabon (Graft)
VE/COPS Hood
RAFORD
AC/WHD
(Signed) J. Flannery

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

INTERNAL
USE ONLY
CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)
KDFACTOR Project Amendment and Termination

FROM: H.E. Mullay
Henry E. Mulloy, WH/1/FI

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and
building)

1. C/WH/1
2. WH/B&F
3. WH/LOG
4. WH/SS
5. WH/Plans/Erna
6. AC/WHD
7. C/WH/RR
8. C/WH/FI
9. C/WH/Plans
10. C/WHD
11. MPS/BG/FI

DATE
RECEIVED FORWARDED
EXTENSION
NO
1973/
4167
DATE
OFFICER'S
INITIALS
26 April 1973
COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

FY 72 FUNDS AVAILABLE
FY 73 FUNDS AVAILABLE

FORM
610
USE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS
SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL
INTERNAL
USE ONLY
UNCLASSIFIED

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000
PROJECT
KDFACTOR
NEW PROJECT
ACTION
SECRET
PROJECT APPROVAL NOTIFICATION
COMPONENT
DIVISION OR STAFF
WH
BRANCH
FI/1
ANNUAL
PIENNIAL
DESK
Mexico
TERMINATION
EXTENSION
OTHER
CASE OFFICER
Henry E. Mulloy
EXTENSION
4167
AUTHORIZATION
APPROVING AUTHORITY
DATE APPROVED
AMT THIS ACTION
FY
TOTAL FUNDS AUTHORIZATION
ADDO
25 May 1973
19
PERIOD OF APPROVAL
$ 7,246
72
$ 36,090
FROM 1 July 1971
TO 30 June 1972
FINANCIAL
CODE
SYMBOL
2135-1009
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL
Amendment No. 2 to Project KDFACTOR approved in the amount
of $7,246, increasing the project's authorization from
$28,644 to a revised total of $36,090 for FY 72; termination
of Project KDFACTOR approved effective 30 June 1972.
SIGNATURE
MPS/BG
DISTRIBUTION
FORM
11-70
849
PREVIOUS
EDITIONS
SECRET
DIV. OR STAFF
BF OFFICER
DATE
29 MAY 1973
GROUP
CASE
OFFICER
MPS/BG

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000
SECRET
22 MAY 1973
MEMORANDUM FOR: Associate Deputy Director for Operations
THROUGH: MPS/BG
SUBJECT: Amendment and Termination of Project
KDFACTOR

1. Project KDFACTOR supported a visual and photo-
graphic surveillance operation in Mexico City targetted
against the Soviet Embassy. Assets included five agents
and two basehouse surveillance sites. Termination of
this project, effective 30 June 1972, was the result of
a security review which revealed that the VWBLANKET
principal knew the basic details of the KDFACTOR opera-
tions.

2. Agent termination was accomplished without any
immediate difficulties; however, continued security will
depend on the terminated agents' silence. In the event
there is a compromise, the risk of damage to the Sta-
tion's relations with the Mexican Government should be
minimized because of the compatible nature of KDFACTOR's
operations.

3. The ADDO approved Amendment No. 1 to the proj-
ect in the amount of $9,844 for FY 1972 to provide for
the agent terminations, but an overrun of $7,246 oc-
curred as the result of miscalculation of termination
costs. This project action requests this additional
sum of $7,246 to cover these expenses.

4. The FI Staff recommends approval of this amend-
ment/termination request.
L. A. Campbell
Chief
Foreign Intelligence

Attachment:
Project
Reviewing officer:
FI/OPS - Stephen Roll

IMPORT CL BY: 055272

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000
PROJECT ACTION
TYPE OF ACTION
NEW PROJECT
APPROVAL
AMENDMENT
NO. 2
RENEWAL
EXTENSION
TERMINATION
OTHER
SECRET
(When Filled in)
FI/C
CA
PROJECT CRYPTONYM
KDFACTOR
DIVISION
Western Hemisphere Division
FIELD STATION
Mexico City
BRANCH
One
DESK
Mexico
CASE OFFICER
Henry E. Mulloy
ROOM NO.
3E05
BUILDING
Hqs
DATE
26 Apr 73
BLACK
1973 4167
TEL.
EXT.
RED
ORGANIZATIONAL
ELEMENT
CONCURRENCES OF DIVISIONS
TYPED NAME (and signature)
C/WH/1
John C. Murray
C/WH/B&F
John T. Boeck
C/WH/SS
Richard B. Wright
C/WH/FI
Robert D. Wiecha
C/WH/Plans
John H. Wilson
AC/WHD
James E. Flannery
CONCURRENCES OF OTHER COMPONENTS
(Type in Organizational Element and Name Below Only
When Concurrence Obtained by Originating Element.)
FI Staff
/s/ Frank W. Hughes
CI Staff
/s/ Gale W. Allen
C/CCS/PRG
/s/ Charles Beckman
DATES
MEMO
ATTACHED
OUT
IN
26 Apr 73
27 Apr 73
5-1-73
14 May 73
5-14-73
DATES
MEMO
ATTACHED
OUT
IN
22 May 73
22 May 73
21 May 73
*With the conditions as stated in my memorandum dated 14 December 1971
(DD/P 1-5899).
APPROVAL
PERIOD
AMT THIS ACTION
FY
TOTAL FUNDS AUTHORIZATION
FROM
TO
1 July 71
30 June 72
$ 7,246
19 72 $36,090
APPROVING AUTHORITY
SIGNATURE
DATE
25 May 1973
ADDO
FORM
3-69
848
USE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS
William E. Colby
SECRET

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000
SECRET
MEMORANDUM FOR:
SUBJECT
:
Associate Deputy Director
For Operations
Project KDFACTOR
-
Amendment
and Termination Request.
26 MAY 1973
1. The KDFACTOR Project (until 1970 encrypted
as the LIEMPTY Project) was initially approved in
1958 to provide financial and material support for
visual and photographic surveillance operations
targetted against the Soviet Embassy in Mexico
City. In June 1972 the project supported five
agents and two basehouse surveillance sites.
2. The KDFACTOR Project was approved by the
ADDO in the amount of $19,000 for FY - 72 and
$20,000 for FY - 73. Per DIRECTOR 285255, dated
30 June 1972, the ADDO approved Amendment NO. 1
to the KDFACTOR Project in the amount of $9,844
for FY - 72 to provide for costs of agent
terminations.
3. The decision to terminate all agents and
facilities under the KDFACTOR Project was based
on a security review of the project activities
which indicated that the VWBLANKET principal knew
the basic details of the KDFACTOR operations,
including the target, the location of the surveillance
sites, and probably the true names and former
cryptonyms of the agents covered by the project.
4. The cost of terminating the agents under the
KDFACTOR Project amounted to $15,573; the cost of
closing down, the two basehouses under the project
was $1,412. The total amount charged to the KDFACTOR
Project in FY 72 was $36,090 which is $7,246 over
the approved authorization of $28,844. The overage
was incurred in terminating the agents and
facilities associated with the KDFACTOR Project.
Although Amendment No. 1 to the project was
approved in the amount of $9,844 to cover the
cost of terminating the agents in the
SECRET
IMPORT CL BY 055272

--- Page 8 ---

14-00000
SECRET
project, the actual payments made by Mexico City
Station per the terms of each Memorandum of Oral
Commitment (MOC) and in accordance with Mexican
law and custom exceeded the estimate for termination
costs made by Headquarters at the time the Amendment
was requested. Termination payments made to each
agent are as follows:
KDFACTOR-2 (Recruited 1956) $8,160
KDFACTOR-5 (Recruited 1956) 2,366
KDFACTOR-6 (Recruited 1956) 2,830
KDFACTOR-8 (Recruited 1965) 649
KDFACTOR-9 (Recruited 1966) 1,568
The long tenure of three of the terminated
agents, the relatively high monthly salary of
KDFACTOR-2 ($440) plus the computation of the
termination payments in accordance with Mexican
law and custom were the primary reasons that the
final agent termination costs amounted to $15,573.
5. All agent terminations were accomplished
in an amicable manner. No visible security risks
were apparent at the time of the terminations
although any one, or all, of the terminated agents
may at some future date decide to divulge to an
interested party the details of the KDFACTOR Project
operations. KDFACTOR-2, KDFACTOR-5, and KDFACTOR-6
have worked in photo surveillance operations for
the Station since 1956 and, therefore, obviously
have considerable knowledge of targets, former
safesites, personnel, and modus operandi of the
Station. However, since the KDFACTOR Project was
not concerned with incompatible operations or
targets, we believe the risks of damage to Station
relations with the Mexican Government in the event
of exposure of the KDFACTOR Project operations by a
terminated agent are within acceptable limits.
6. It is requested that the KDFACTOR Project
be amended to provide the sum of $7,246 for FY
72 to cover the costs of terminating five agents
and two basehouse surveillance sites under this
project.
SECRET

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000
SECRET
7. It is also requested that the termination
of the KDFACTOR Project be approved effective 30
June 1972.
James E. Flannery
AC/WHD
SECRET

--- Page 10 ---

14-00000
ORGANIZATIONAL
ELEMENT
PROJECT ACTION
TYPE OF ACTION
NEW PROJECT
APPROVAL
AMENDMENT
NO.
2
RENEWAL
EXTENSION
TERMINATION
OTHER
FI/C
SECRET
(When Filled in)
CA
PROJECT CRYPTONYM
KDFACTOR
DIVISION
Western Hemisphere Division
FIELD STATION
Mexico City
BRANCH
One
DESK
Mexico
CASE OFFICER
Henry E. Mulloy
ROOM NO.
3E05
BUILDING
Hqs
DATE
26 Apr 73
BLACK
1973 4167
TEL.
EXT.
RED
CONCURRENCES OF DIVISIONS
TYPED NAME (and signature)
C/WH/1
John C. Murray
C/WH/B&F
John T. Boeck
C/WH/SS
Richard B. Wright
C/WH/FI
Robert D. Wiecha
C/WH/Plans
John H. Wilson
AC/WHD
Theodore G. Shackley
CONCURRENCES OF OTHER COMPONENTS
(Type in Organizational Element and Name Below Only
When Concurrence Obtained by Originating Element.)
FI Staff
/s/ Frank W. Hughes
CI Staff
/s/ Gale W. Allen
C/CCS/PRG
*With the conditions as stated in my memorandum dated 14 December 1971
(DD/P 1-5899).
DATES
MEMO
ATTACHED
OUT
IN
26 Apr 73
27 Apr 73
5-1-73
14 May 73
5-14-73
DATES
MEMO
ATTACHED
OUT
IN
22 May 73
22 May 73
21 May 73
NO
YES
NO
/s/ Charles Beckman
APPROVAL
PERIOD
AMT THIS ACTION
FY
TOTAL FUNDS AUTHORIZATION
FROM
TO
1 July 71
30 June 72
$ 7,246
19 72 $36,090
APPROVING AUTHORITY
SIGNATURE
DATE
25 May 1973
ADDO
FORM
3-69
848
USE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS
William E. Colby
SECRET

--- Page 11 ---

14-00000
SECRET
MEMORANDUM FOR:
SUBJECT
:
Associate Deputy Director
For Operations
Project KDFACTOR
-
Amendment and
Termination Request.
26 MAY 1973
1. The KDFACTOR Project (until 1970 encrypted as the
LIEMPTY Project) was initially approved in 1958 to provide
financial and materiel support for visual and photographic
surveillance operations targetted against the Soviet Embassy
in Mexico City. In June 1972 the project supported five
agents and two basehouse surveillance sites.
2. The KDFACTOR Project was approved by the ADDO in
the amount of $19,000 for FY-72 and $20,000 for FY-73.
Per DIRECTOR 285255, dated 30 June 1972, the ADDO approved
Amendment No. 1 to the KDFACTOR Project in the amount of
$9,844 for FY-72 to provide for costs of agent terminations.
3. The decision to terminate all agents and facilities
under the KDFACTOR Project was based on a security review
of the project activities which indicated that the VWBLANKET
principal knew the basic details of the KDFACTOR operations,
including the target, the location of the surveillance sites,
and probably the true names and former cryptonyms of the
agents covered by the project.
4. The costs of terminating all the agents in the KDFACTOR
Project amounted to $15,573.00 which was considerably more
than had been initially estimated when Amendment No. 1 for
FY-72 was requested and approved. The total amount charged
to the KDFACTOR Project in FY-72 was $36,090 which is $7,246
over the project's authorization of $28,844. The overage
was incurred in terminating agents and facilities associated
with the KDFACTOR Project; the effective date of all termi-
nations was 30 June 1972.
SECRET
IMPORT CL BY 055272

--- Page 12 ---

14-00000
SECRET
5. All agent terminations were accomplished in an
amicable manner. No visible security risks were apparent
at the time of the terminations although any one, or all
of the terminationed agents may at some future date decide
to divulge to an interested party the details of the
KDFACTOR Project operations. KDFACTOR-2 and KDFACTOR-5
have worked in photo surveillance operations for the
Station since 1957 and, therefore, obviously have consider-
able knowledge of targets, former safesites, personnel, and
modus operandi of the Station. However, since the KDFACTOR
Project was not concerned with incompatible operations or
targets, we believe the risks of damage to Station relations
with the Mexican Government in the event of exposure of the
KDFACTOR Project operations by a terminated agent are within
acceptable limits.
6. It is requested that the KDFACTOR Project be amended
to provide the sum of $7,246 for FY-72 to cover the costs of
terminating five agents and two basehouse surveillance
sites covered by this project.
7. It is also requested that the termination of the
KDFACTOR Project be approved effective 30 June 1972.
Theodore G. Shackley
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
SECRET

--- Page 13 ---

14-00000
KDFACTOR - Mexico City, Mexico -- Photographic Surveillance
Team Support -- FY 1972, Cost $19,000 and FY 1973,
Cost $20,000
Fiscal Year
Approved
1971
$23,635
Obligated
$27,586
Changes:
1. The processing of photographs obtained through this
project now is performed inside the Station. KDFACTOR-1, who
formerly processed the take in an outside safehouse, was
terminated amicably in early March 1971. Security and effi-
ciency have been increased by this change. KDFACTOR-1 was
terminated in 1970, but the termination payments were made
during FY 1971 causing an increase in that years obligations.
2. Howard T. BAGAUS handled the administration of this
project to early April 1971 when project responsibility
reverted from the Operations Support Section to the REDTOP
Section. At that time Timothy H. ARCHBOLD assumed the inside
administrative supervision, and agent meetings were turned
over to the outside case officer Bruce R. FERNALD. When
ARCHBOLD departed PCS on 7 June 1971, Oliver J. MANKUNAS
assumed responsibility for this project, including agent
meetings.
Accomplishments:
1. This project has provided continuous daily photo-,
graphic and visual coverage of personnel and vehicles entering
or leaving the Soviet Embassy. A total of 530 rolls of film
were produced during the reporting period. U.S. citizens,
visitors, and TDY personnel are given special attention. Iden-
tifications of license plates and automobile descriptions as
well as drivers and their companions are identified under this
project. Additionally, attendance sheets are maintained to
establish who is at the Embassy on any given day and hour.

--- Page 14 ---

14-00000
These photographs and reports have contributed operational
support to the Station's Soviet operations which is not
attainable elsewhere. For example, whenever the Soviets
change all their license numbers the Station is able to
compile a new, complete roster within a matter of weeks.
Costs:
1. General: $19,000 is requested for FY 1972 and
$20,000 is requested for FY 1973. It is also requested
that the Project be amended for FY 1971 in the amount of
$4,260 to provide for the termination of KDFACTOR-1 and
KDFACTOR-7.
2. Source of Funds: Project KDFACTOR is included in
the Western Hemisphere Division's Operational Program in the
amount of $23,735 for FY 1972 and $24,182 for FY 1973.
3. Project Budget:
FY 1970
Estimated
Obligations
FY 72
FY 73
FY 74
Salaries
KDFACTOR-2
KDFACTOR-5
$ 5,280
1,728
$ 5,280 $ 5,808
1,728
1,901
KDFACTOR-6
2,112
2,112
2,323
$ 5,808
1,901
2,323
KDFACTOR-8
768
768
845
845
KDFACTOR-9
1,968
1,968
2,165
2,165
KDFACTOR-1
4,400
-0-
-0-
-0-
KDFACTOR-7
2,300
-0-
-0-
-0-
Bonuses
1,374
1,088
1,087
1.087
$20,130
$12,944 $14,129
$14,129
Base houses
Rents
$ 6,022
$ 4,350 $ 4,240
$ 4,240
Utilities
400
750
800
800
Maintenance
200
500
500
500
$ 6,622
$ 5,600 $ 5,540
$ 5,540

--- Page 15 ---

14-00000
Misc Expenses
Ops entertainment
165
300 $
100
100
Auto maintenance
80
100
100
100
Ops expenses
590
56
131
131
835
456 $
331
331
$27,587
$19,000 $20,000
$20,000
Total Expenses
4. Foreign Currency: There is no special need for
foreign funds. No non-JKLANCE funds are used.
5. Commitments: Christmas bonuses are provided in the
FY 72 and FY 73 budgets.
6. Funding: Funds are hand-carried from the Station by
the case officer and transferred during clandestine meetings.
Receipts are obtained for all disbursements according to
JKLANCE regulations.
7. Annexes: None.

--- Page 16 ---

14-00000
KDFACTOR - Mexico City, Mexico -- Photographic Surveillance
Team Support -- FY 1972, Cost $19,000 and FY 1973,
Cost $20,000
Fiscal Year
Approved
1971
$23,635
Obligated
$27,586
Changes:
1. The processing of photographs obtained through this
project now is performed inside the Station. KDFACTOR-1, who
formerly processed the take in an outside safehouse, was
terminated amicably in early March 1971. Security and effi-
ciency have been increased by this change. KDFACTOR-1 was
terminated in 1970, but the termination payments were made
during FY 1971 causing an increase in that years obligations.
2. Howard T. BAGAUS handled the administration of this
project to early April 1971 when project responsibility
reverted from the Operations Support Section to the REDTOP
Section. At that time Timothy H. ARCHBOLD assumed the inside
administrative supervision, and agent meetings were turned
over to the outside case officer Bruce H. FERNALD. When
ARCHBOLD departed PCS on 7 June 1971, Oliver J. MANKUNAS
assumed responsibility for this project, including agent
meetings.
Accomplishments:
1. This project has provided continuous daily photo-
graphic and visual coverage of personnel and vehicles entering
or leaving the Soviet Embassy. A total of 530 rolls of film
were produced during the reporting period. U.S. citizens.
visitors, and TDY personnel are given special attention. Iden-
tifications of license plates and automobile descriptions as
well as drivers and their companions are identified under this
project. Additionally, attendance sheets are maintained to
establish who is at the Embassy on any given day and hour.

--- Page 17 ---

14-00000
These photographs and reports have contributed operational
support to the Station's Soviet operations which is not
attainable elsewhere. For example, whenever the Soviets
change all their license numbers the Station is able to
compile a new, complete roster within a matter of weeks.
Costs:
1. General: $19,000 is requested for FY 1972 and
$20,000 is requested for FY 1973. It is also requested
that the Project be amended for FY 1971 in the amount of
$4,260 to provide for the termination of KDFACTOR-1 and
KDFACTOR-7.
2. Source of Funds: Project KDFACTOR is included in
the Western Hemisphere Division's Operational Program in the
amount of $23,735 for FY 1972 and $24,182 for FY 1973.
3. Project Budget:
FY 1970
Estimated
Obligations
FY 72
FY 73
FY 74
Salaries
KDFACTOR-2
$ 5,280
$ 5,280 $ 5,808
$ 5,808
KDFACTOR-5
1,728
1,728
1,901
1,901
KDFACTOR-6
2,112
2,112
2,323
2,323
KDFACTOR-8
768
768
845
845
KDFACTOR-9
1,968
1,968
2,165
2,165
KDFACTOR-1
4,400
-0-
-0-
-0-
KDFACTOR-7
2,300
-0-
-0-
-0-
Bonuses
1,374
1,088
1,087
1,087
$20,130
$12,944
$14,129
$14,129
Base houses
Rents
$ 6,022
$ 4,350 $ 4,240
$ 4,240
Utilities
Maintenance
400
750
800
800
200
500
500
500
$ 6,622
$ 5,600 $ 5,540
$ 5,540

--- Page 18 ---

14-00000
-3-
Misc Expenses
Ops entertainment $
165
300 $
100
100
Auto maintenance
80
100
100
100
Ops expenses
590
56
131
131
835
456 $ 331
331
Total Expenses
$27,587
$19,000 $20,000
$20,000
4. Foreign Currency: There is no special need for
foreign funds. No non-JKLANCE funds are used.
5. Commitments: Christmas bonuses are provided in the
FY 72 and FY 73 budgets.
6. Funding: Funds are hand-carried from the Station by
the case officer and transferred during clandestine meetings.
Receipts are obtained for all disbursements according to
JKLANCE regulations.
7. Annexes: None.

--- Page 19 ---

14-00000
CONFIDENTIAL
INTERNAL
USE ONLY
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
SUBJECT: (Optional)
KDFACTOR Project Renewal
FROM
Fred Kravcov
WH/1, 3E05
EXTENSION
NO
4167
TO: (Officer designation, room number, and
building)
DATE
RECEIVED FORWARDED
INITIALS
DATE
1.
C/WH/1/FI/CI
28 Oct 1971
2.
C/WH/1
3.
C/WH/B&F
4.
C/WH/SS
5. SB/X/WH
6.
C/WH/FI
7.
C/WH/Plans
8.
C/WHD
COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)
FY 71 FUNDS AVAILABLE
FY 72 FUNDS AVAILABLE
29/10/71
28 October 1971
15/1/217
11/19/71
FY 73 FUNDS WILL BE MADE
AVAILABLE
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
FORM
3-52
MPS/BG/FI
WH/FI
C/WH/1
C/WH/1/FI/CI
610
USE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS
SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL
INTERNAL
USE ONLY
UNCLASSIFIED

--- Page 20 ---

14-00000
PROJECT
KDFACTOR
NEW PROJECT
ACTION
SECRET
PROJECT APPROVAL NOTIFICATION
COMPONENT
DIVISION OR STAFF
WH
BRANCH
FI/1
ANNUAL
PIENNIAL
DESK
TERMINATION
EXTENSION
OTHER
CASE OFFICER
J. Murray
Mexico
EXTENSION
6955
AUTHORIZATION
APPROVING AUTHORITY
DATE APPROVED
AMT THIS ACTION
FY
TOTAL FUNDS AUTHORIZATION
ADDP
30 June 1972
19
PERIOD OF APPROVAL
$ 9,844
72
$ 28,844
FROM 1 July 1971
TO 30 June 1972
FINANCIAL
CODE
SYMBOL
2135-1009
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL
Amendment No. 1 to Project KDFACTOR approved, as per
DIR 285255, in the amount of $9,844, increasing the
project's authorization from $19,000 to a revised
total of $28,844 for FY 72.
SIGNATURE
MPS/8G
DISTRIBUTION
FORM
11-70
849
PREVIOUS
EDITIONS
SECRET
DIV. OR STAFF
BF OFFICER
DATE
25 JUL 1972
GROUP
CASE
OFFICER
MPS/BG

--- Page 21 ---

14-00000
PROJECT
KDFACTOR
NEW PROJECT
ACTION
SECRET
PROJECT APPROVAL NOTIFICATION
COMPONENT
DIVISION OR STAFF
WH
BRANCH
FI/1
ANNUAL
PIENNIAL
DESK
TERMINATION
EXTENSION
OTHER
CASE OFFICER
Fred Kravcov
Mexico
EXTENSION
4167
AUTHORIZATION
APPROVING AUTHORITY
DATE APPROVED
AMT THIS ACTION
FY
TOTAL FUNDS AUTHORIZATION
ADDP
10 December 1971
19
PERIOD OF APPROVAL
$ 19,000
72
$ 19,000
FROM 1 July 1971
TO 30 June 1973
FINANCIAL
CODE
SYMBOL
2135-1009
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL
19 73 $ 20,000
SIGNATURE
MPS/8G
DISTRIBUTION
FORM
11-70
849
PREVIOUS
EDITIONS
SECRET
DIV. OR STAFF
BF OFFICER
DATE
CASE
OFFICER
MPS/BG

--- Page 22 ---

14-00000
SECRET
(When Filled In)
FUNDING
DATE 27 DEC 71
NO.
(DOCUMENT # FOR
THIS PROJECT)
NOTIFICATION OF PROJECT APPROVAL ACTION
TO: CHIEF OF STATION (BASE)
ATTENTION: FINANCE OFFICER
Mexico
INFO:
PROJECT KDFACTOR
FAN 2135-1009
TYPE OF ACTION
PERIOD OF ACTION
AMOUNT $
NEW
RENEWAL
EXTENSION
TERMINATION
AMENDMENT
OTHER
PREVIOUS ACTION IN THIS FISCAL YEAR
TOTAL FISCAL YEAR APPROVAL
FUNDS AVAILABLE FOR HQS USE
FUNDS AVAILABLE FOR FIELD USE
CHIEF, WH/B&F
HQS USE ONLY
PROCESSED
APPROVED
TYPE OF ACTION
PERIOD
AMOUNT
SECRET
(When Filled In)

--- Page 23 ---

14-00000
SECRET
PROJECT APPROVAL NOTIFICATION
NEW PROJECT
ACTION
AMENDMENT
NO. 1, FY 71