14-0000

104-10101-10239 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Kary Parrish
CA/PROP/G
19 Dec 63

FILE NO.
SEE BELOW
DIRECTOR

BAL
ABLJ
ROUTING
S
6
19 DEC 63 15 2#z
1/ 2, AF 4, EE 4, WE

CITE DIR 90168
DEFOCEN
ROUTINE
168
FROM: 16172

REUTERS, UPI, AP REPORT FROM MOSCOW EIGHTEEN DECEMBER
THAT APPROX FIVE HUNDRED AFRICAN STUDENTS GATHERED AT GHANA
EMBASSY, FOUGHT THEIR WAY PAST POLICE BARRICADES AND MARCHED
TO KREMLIN TO PROTEST ALLEGED KILLING GHANA STUDENT ASARO ADDEO.
STUDENTS CARRIED PLACARDS "STOP KILLING AFRICANS", SKULL AND
CROSSBONES LABELLED "RUSSIAN FRIENDSHIP", "FRIENDS TODAY,
DEVILS TOMORROW" "MOSCOW IS SECOND ALABAMA". STUDENT DELEGATION
PRESENTED MEMO TO MINISTRY HIGHER EDUCATION CHARGING “OUR FREEDOM
BEING THREATENED HERE BECAUSE STUDENTS ARE BEING BEATEN IN
DIFFERENT PARTS OF SOVIET UNION AND ONE WAS KILLED RECENTLY IN
KALININ. WE WANT THE POLICE TO TAKE STRONGER ACTION". SOVIET
OFFICIALS CLAIM ADDEO DIED OF EXPOSURE WHILE INTOXICATED.
STUDENTS BELIEVE HE KILLED BY RUSSIAN BECAUSE HE WANTED TO MARRY
RUSSIAN GIRL.

USING WIRE SERVICE, FBIS SOURCES PLAY STUDENT ACTION
ALONG LINES:

INCIDENT
IS EVIDENCE OF RACIST ATTITUDES
DESPITE SOVIET PROPAGANDA

ADDEO'S DEATH PROBABLY ONLY SPARK SETTING OFF
LONG SMOULDERING STUDENT RESENTMENT OF
POLITICAL INDOCTRINATION, SEGREGATION,
EXPLOITATION FOR PROP PURPOSES

THE INCIDENT IS SIMILAR TO RECENT CONGO EXPULSION OF
SOVIET DIPLOMATS AS ANOTHER FACET SOVIET
LONG RANGE PLAN TO DUPE, EVEN TAKEOVER,
NAIVE AFRICAN STATES BY MEANS OF SUBVERSION,
STUDENT INDOCTRINATION AND CONTROL, ECONOMIC
AID WITH POLITICAL STRINGS.

SEE BIWEEKLY GUIDANCE SEVEN HUNDRED NINETEEN FOR FURTHER
ACTION AND BACKGROUND. WATCH STUDENT GROUPS FOR DEMONSTRATIONS,
ARTICLES AND PUBLIC STATEMENTS. INTERVIEW
TRAINED STUDENTS, GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS, EDUCATORS FOR REACTION.

SEND CLIPS HQS

END OF MESSAGE

COORDINATING OFFICERS:
AF/CA Wayne Murphy
WE/DE
KE/OPB/CA-4ebst
NE/OP/PA
HIL/PO/B
FB/SO/P
Heaters Harris (phone)
William Muut (phone)
TH/TO/ John Isbell (phone)
ENCE Jory Sert (phone)
BR/CA

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION IN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy-No.
