104-10071-10404
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES: 14

SECRET
INDEX
DESTROY
NO INDEX
INFO: RID COPY
FILE
VX

19 April 1968

ORIGINATOR: DCI
TO: ASUNCION, BANGKOK, BARCELONA, BEIRUT, BERLIN, BERN, BOGOTA, BRASILIA, BRUSSELS, BUENOS AIRES, CARACAS, COPENHAGEN, FRANKFURT, GENEVA, GEORGETOWN, GUATEMALA CITY, GUAYAQUIL, THE HAGUE, HAMBURG, HELSINKI, HONG KONG, KINGSTON, LA PAZ, LIMA, LONDON, MADRID, MANAGUA, MANILA, MONTEVIDEO, MUNICH, NEW DELHI, LISBON, OSLO, PANAMA CITY, PARIS, PORT AU PRINCE, PORT OF SPAIN, PORTO ALEGRE, QUITO, RAWALPINDI, RECIFE, RIO DE JANEIRO, ROME, SAN JOSE, SAN SALVADOR, SANTIAGO, SANTIAGO DE LOS CABALLEROS, SAO PAULO, STOCKHOLM, TEGUCIGALPA, TOKYO, VIENNA, ZURICH

SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
RETURN TO BRANCH
FILE IN CS FILE NO.

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS - SEEN BY

(date and time filed)
CITE DIRECTOR 93162
PRIORITY NO NIGHT ACTION
RYBAT WOMUSE
REF: DIR 92664.

1. LNERGO HAS POSITIVELY IDENTIFIED ACCUSED ASSASSIN AS JAMES EARL RAY, BORN 10 MARCH 1928 IN ILLINOIS; HEIGHT FIVE FEET TEN INCHES; WEIGHT 163-174 POUNDS; BLUE EYES; BROWN HAIR. SMALL SCAR ON CENTER OF FOREHEAD AND SCAR ON PALM OF RIGHT HAND. IN ADDITION TO ALIASES CITED REF. HAS ALSO USED NAMES JAMES MCBRIDE, JAMES WALTON, W. C. HERRON, AND JAMES O'CONNER. SERVED IN U.S. ARMY FROM FEBRUARY 1946 TO DECEMBER 1948; DISCHARGED AS INEPT AND UNABLE TO ADJUST. ONCE CONFINED TO MENTAL HOSPITAL: HAS BEEN EMPLOYED AS "MATHER," BAKER, LABORER, AND "COLOR." A DRIFTER WITH LONG CRIMINAL RECORD FOR BURGLARY, ARMED ROBBERY, AND FORGERY. HAS BEEN MISSING FROM MISSOURI STATE PENITENTIARY SINCE 23 APRIL 1967. CONSIDERED ARMED AND EXTREMELY DANGEROUS. CURRENT WHEREABOUTS UNKNOWN.

2. PHOTOS OF RAY (LABELED GALT PRIOR TO IDENTIFICATION) BEING POUCHED FOR LIAISON.

END OF MESSAGE

DDP by direction Richard Ober
CI/OP/DO

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET
GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
