14-00000

104-10179-10104 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

INFO.
FROM
DISPATCH
Chief, Task Force W.
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
PROCESSING
180
POSED
ACTION
MARKED FOR INDELING
ACCOM
PLISHED
x
NO INDELING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED
HEADQUARTERS DESK
CAN MUDGE INDELING
ABSTRACT
MICROFILM
RETURN TO CIA'
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce
Chief, JMWAVE
SUBJECT: GYROSE/ANCONCERT-1
Report on Cira MARTINEZ
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
ACTION REQUIRED: FYI

Attached herewith is an ANCONCERT-1 report on Cira MARTINEZ, a confidante of Manuel RAY.

Attachment: h/w
Copies of report (2).

Distribution:
3-Headquarters w/att.

END OF DISPATCH

Sow of Rey/Chrows
CROSS REFERENCE TO
CLASS
ENTI
SECR
DATE TYPED
DATE DISPATCHED
NOV 6 1962
HEADQUARTERS
19-120-33

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

Hwall to UFCH- 6468
REPORTING AGENT: 11/
Miami, 8 Oct 62
SUBJECT: Cira MARTINEZ, aka: "Josefina", very closely connected to Manuel RAY.

SOURCE: Marta DIEZ Rivas. Married to Dr. Ricardo MACHIN. Was connected in Havana with various anti-Communist organizations.

On a visit I made to source, she told me that she had met Mrs. Cira MARTINEZ in Havana. That Mrs. MARTINEZ used the clandestine pseudonym "Josefina" and was married to architect Frank MARTINEZ. That both subject and her husband were persons in the absolute confidence of engineer Manuel RAY, and "Josefina" had been RAY's secretary for a long time.

Source claims to have learned from "Josefina" that she was dissatisfied with RAY's political actions, to the extent that RAY wanted her to join the executive of the organization J.U.R.E. but she had refused because she did not agree with the political aim of this organization. That "Josefina" had described this organization as a political movement the same as Castroism, only changing the name of the leader. That she knows the plan of this organization is to organize all anti-BATISTA and anti-CASTRO organizations, under the direction of the J.U.R.E., and develop a nationalistic and especially an anti-American policy in order to be able to group all the elements existing in Cuba that have not figured prominently in the CASTRO regime. After the fall of the CASTRO regime they plan to form a strong political party in Cuba and capitalize on the mistakes committed by the provisional Government. With this objective in mind, they will stay separated from the C.R.O. and from all relations with the U.S. Government in order to be able to carry out their plan freely.

Mrs. Cira MARTINEZ lives with her husband at 1004 NE 17th St., Miami, phone number PL-C-0483 on which they talk to many persons related with RAY's plan.

NOTE: One of RAY's most trusted leaders in Miami is still Osorio DAVILA, former treasurer of the 26th of July Movement and man in the absolute confidence of Haydee SANTAMARIA. For a long time DAVILA was the Chief of the Havana Immigration Department, until he came to the U.S. by boat from the coast of Matanzas. Some days ago I submitted a detailed report on Osorio DAVILA, and also on CICHOS and many other

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

8 Oct 62, subj: Cira MARTINEZ (cont.)

... leaders of J.U.R.E., because there is another group of individuals whose names are not advertised but who have command powers in the J.U.R.E. One of these men is Ignacio LEDON, former leader of the 26th of July Movement, private secretary of the Commissioner of Havana Jose LLANUSA, and G-2 delegate in Havana City Hall. LEDON persecuted many persons in the City Hall because he was the one who made the lists of persons who should be watched, to the G-2. He also had close connections with the Minister of the Interior, Jose A. NARANJO, whom he kept informed about the persons under suspicion who worked in the Ministry of the Interior. One time LEDON visited NARANJO and informed him, in the presence of NARANJO's secretary, Lucy ECHEVERRIA, that he should keep Captain Ramon PADILLA, at that time Chief of the Isle of Pines prison, under surveillance. In 1960 PADILLA was preparing the escape of Captain Jorge SOTUS, and thanks to Lucy's warning PADILLA took precautions and the plan could be carried out. Ignacio LEDON lives in Miami but I don't know his home address.

Although he inter declared himself an anti-Communist, and I think he sought asylum in the Brazilian Embassy, I have no trust in him at all.

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000
SECRET
3006

On Sunday, October 28, I met twice with Manolo RAY of the Movimiento Revolucionario del Pueblo (MRP) at the San Juan Intercontinental Hotel, in San Juan, Puerto Rico. My main objectives were: (1) to elicit from him a list of Cubans, presently associated with the Castro regime, who are critical of Castro and might be considered potential defectors; (2) to obtain a list of Cubans, either inside or outside the island, who could be available, in case of an emergency, to help in setting up some kind of provisional government; and (3) to have his general views on the possibility of an insurrectionary movement.

Since I had arranged to return to Washington on the same day, I did not give Ray much time to do a thorough job. However, he was able to furnish me with a list of names, covering points (1) and (2). He promised to provide me with additional information after checking with some of his associates in New York and Miami. His thoughts on the possibility of an insurrectionary movement will be the subject of a separate memorandum.

LIST I

The persons herein indicated are either in Cuba or are working for the Cuban Government. I add my own comments in parenthesis, based on my conversations with Ray.

A - GENERAL

06 [Regino BOTI] - [Minister of Economy] 08
(Ray feels he is disgusted with the Castro regime. Instructions have gone out to sound him out. No reply as yet.)

06 [Commander Ifigenio ALMEJEIRAS]
(Said to hold a key command position in Central Cuba and to be thoroughly disgusted. Could be a key man in a top level revolt.)

06 [Commander Lester RODRIGUEZ]
(Has helped the MRP. His allegiance to Castro has considerably weakened)

06 [Commander Pedro MIRE]
(Very close to Rodriguez. Will most probably follow him.)

06 [Commander Rolando CUBELAS]

06 [Rafael BETANCOURT]
(Is anxious to leave Cuba)

06 [Commands an artillery post. His brother [name unfurnished] is actively against the regime.]

SECRET

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000

06 [Captain Luis PIRO Pérez (Terry)]
(Chief of the "Policia Judicial". Suggest we redact "Policia Judicial". Talked against Castro.)

06 [Commander Faustino PEREZ]
(Former Minister. Said key position in Havana province. Reported to have expressed strong views against Castro.)

06 [Commander Antonio E. LUZON]
(Favorable to the MRP).

06 [Commander Bernabe ORD]

06 [José KARANJO]

06 [José ASSAD]

06 [Sebastián ARCOS]

06 [Enrique IBARRA]

06 [Armando FRANCO]

06 [Alfredo ZABUR]

06 [Carlos LECHUGA]

(In charge of [Exserra]. To protect President. Top of list)

(Formerly connected with "Gobernación". Also in opposition to Castro).

(Formerly connected with the Finance Ministry. Known to be critical of regime.)

(Under-Secretary of Public Works. Favorably inclined to the MRP).

(Present post unknown. Reported to be against Castro.)

[Minister of Justice.] Conflicting reports as to his allegiance to Castro.)

(Accessador to Mexico. Has recently written to an MRP friend. Well-liked, might be anxious to defect.)

06 [Enrique RODRIGUEZ Loeche]

06 [José PALLON]
(Cuban Ambassador to [source]. Presumed to be anti-Castro.)

(One of the executive members of the "Confederación de Trabajadores Cubanos" Cuban Workers' Union. Has been in contact with the MRP.)

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000
SECRET

06 [José DIAZ]
(Another labor leader, known to be anti-Castro.)

06 [Captain Manuel CARBONEL]
(Assistant to ALMEJEIRAS. In opposition to regime.)

06 [Commander Guillermo GARCIA]
(Active in the western provinces. The MRP is checking on a report regarding his disaffection.)

06 [Antonio ESCOBAR]
(Was in command until recently of a naval post in [BARACOA]. Definitely anti-Castro).

06 [José OGLE Colón]
(Also from Baracoa. In charge of one of the militia regiments.)

06 [Manuel PEREZ]
(Municipal Treasurer, Baracoa. Decidedly anti-Castro.)

06 [Captain Duque ESTRADA]
(Held government position in Oriente. Known to be Anti-Castro.)

06 [Has helped the MRP]

The "Alcaldes" (Mayors) of [Guantánamo] and [San Cristobal] are believed to be against the regime.

06 [José Angel ROMERO]
(A former businessman from Baracoa.)

06 [Juan GUILLARON]
(Also from Baracoa. A public accountant.)

06 [Elio KARDO]

06 [Heriberto DETE PORTO]
(Former mayor of [Artaxtion])

06 [José MUZA]

06 [IGLESIAS Betancourt]
(Could be helpful in Camagüey Province.)

06 [Manuel DORTA Duque]

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000
SECRET

06 [Agustín TOME]
(From Camagüey. Former governor in 1959-60. Trusted by the original revolution.)

06 [Osorio DAVILA]
(Very respected in Matanzas. Also linked with the original revolution.)

06 [Argelia MARTINEZ]
(Former commissioner in Matanzas.)

06 [José DEL RIO Lago]
(A respected land surveyor in Pinar del Rio. Former Commander of the July 26 Movement.)

The main center of conspiracy within the government against Castro, according to Ray, is the Planning Board (Junta Central de Planificación.)

B - TRAINED PERSONNEL

1.  The following list includes technicians working for the government under contract or as public officials. Those marked with an asterisk (*) are highly trusted by Ray.

06 [* Arq. Joaquín BERARES]
Public Works, Oriente Province (Aguilera 558, Guantánamo)

06 [* Arq. Carlos MARURI (Marianao)]
Municipality of Havana.

06 [Arq. Armando PUENTES]
Public Works, Havana (Ave. 26 Between 29 & 27, Vedado)

06 [* Arq. Mariano DOU Riera]
Municipality of Havana, Sta. Catalina 360, Tilberia, Havana

06 [Arq. Rodolfo SANCHEZ García]
Public Works, Havana [25 - #5609, Mariano]

06 [Fernando NUNEZ de Villavicencia]
Public Works, Oriente, Ave. 9-A #15007, Apte. Cinódromo, Mariano

06 [Gerardo Van Der Ourch] (Public Works, Habana)
[#408 Between 27 & Jovellar, Havana]

--- Page 8 ---

14-00000
SECRET

06 [Julio ALDECOCEA]
(Las Villas) Edfi. Retiro Odontológico 1302, Vedado.

06 [Arq. José KARZOL Valenzuela]
Professor at University of Havana, Boto #50 Corner 1st, Arroyo Maranao

06 [Arq. Antonia SUAREZ]
Public Works, Havana [Ave. 11 #481, Mariana]

06 [Arq. Joaquín PALAEZ Canallada, Francisco LARA]
Infanta No. 24 – Apt. 601, Havana

06 [Francisco LARA,]
[88 A - #5307, Mariano]

06 [Truck business, Messrs. Manuel and Mario LOPEZ]
[194 #6510 Between 65 y 73 Marianao]

06 [Foremen in Public Works, Las Villas]

06 [Arq. José CANAVES Egaldo]
[Ave. 26 & Zoológico, Havana]

2. Other trained personnel, not connected with the government:

06 [Arq. Pedro GUNSH (1)]
Was in Public Works, Havana

06 [Arq. Felipe GOMEZ Albarrán]
Ex-professor University of Havana and Vilanova

06 [Arq. Carlos MOURIE]
Was in Public Works, Havana (Ave. Zoológico 202, Vedado)

06 [Arq. Ricardo CORONTEAS Guspert]
28 No. 270 Bet. 21 and 23, Vedado

06 [Arq. Alberto COURIEL]
Calzada No. 1059 Corn of 147, Vedado

06 [Arq. Rodolfo SOCARRAS Sanches]
Extension of Maceo, El Llang, [source]

06 [Arq. Miguel ALCOLADO de la Torre]
[Máximo Gómez No. 3, Guantánamo]

SECRET

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000
SECRET

06 [Arq. Rodulfo TERRA Perez]
(President, National College of Architects.)
15 No. 259, Vista Alegre, Santiago de Cuba.

06 [Sebastian J. RAYMO]
[Terraza No. 155, Santiago de Cuba]

06 [Arq. Emilio CARBO]
8610 Between 86 and 88, Miramar,

06 [Arq. Everardo GARCIA Fernández, 5a Ave., 6602]
Marianao

06 [Ex. Ing. Anastasio ROSEMORD, Contractor]
[180 No. 4107 – Bet. 41 and 43, Marianao]

06 [Ex. Ing. Manolo RODRIGUEZ]

06 [Ex. Humberto RODRIGUEZ, Plumber]
[Garage] 26 No. 502 Vedado

06 [E. Arq. Antonio VIOCO]
[60-A, 2114, Marianao]

06 [Enrique LOBELLA, Electrician]
Marianao.

06 [E. Arq. José Roberto CECMAT]
Ex-Dean University, School of Architecture, 3rd Ave. #130 - Bet. 12 & 14, Marianao

[Hitahabana (Municipality of Marianas)]

October 30, 1962
