14-00000

104-10221-10007
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

(Then Filled in)
DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT
Soto Vazquez, Antonio

12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE
DATE PROCESSED
22361

RI FILE NO.
DISPATCH OF SOURCE DOC.
SYMBOL NO.
SOURCE CRYPTONYM
DATE OF INFO
EVALUATION
10. DISSEMINATED IN
11. DATE
DOCUMENT DISPOSITION
13. TRANSFERRED TO
RI FILE NO.
PERTINENT INFORMATION

THERE IS A RESTRICTED CI/CA OR ON THE SUBJECT
OF
THIS 201 HELD UNDER OF 90192

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.
8677089
21-295/544

FORM
0-27
DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

S. ANALYST

14.

SECRET

--- Page 2 ---

14-0000
INS name trace
16 Dec 66.
Subject: Soto-Vazquez, Antonio

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

SECRET
REQUEST FOR CANCELLATION

TO:
CHIEF, CI/OA

FROM:
(Originating Office)
SOD
PROJECT
WITHRUSH
(Extension)

SUBJECT'S NAME (Pseudo, crypt of true name may be used)
SOTO-Vasquez, Antonio

CRYPT
(Case officer)
W. Wainwright 4478

CI/DA NO.
90193

201 NO.
294544

NAME KNOWN AS
WITRUSH

DATE OF BIRTH
30 August 1934

PLACE OF BIRTH
Havana, Cuba

AGENT'S SERVICE RECORD
WILL BE FORWARDED
ATTACHED

REASON(S) FOR CANCELLATION
1. It is requested that OA on Subject be canceled as he is of no further operational interest to this office.

Thank you for your assistance in this case.
Green List Name Check canceled as of this date.

DATE
September 1966

SIGNATURE
William E. Wainwright

IF SUBJECT IS USED IN ANY CAPACITY, A NEW REQUEST FOR APPROVAL WILL BE SUBMITTED TO CI/CA
100*937
PONDLATE
PREVIOUS POA
SECRET

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000

INDEX ☐ YES ☒ NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
X-REF TO FILE NO.
FILE DID ☐ REF TO SEARCH ☐

FROM
LEOPOLDVILLE

ACTION
SOD 6

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
TOTAL COPIES
34

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

ADVANCE COPY
JUNE
TIME

☒ RID COPY ☐
☐ SERVED ☐ SALTED
INFO
FILE, VR, WH/C8, AF7, DDP/AIR

SECRET 1909552
DIR WAVE CITE LEOP 3043
CHAPPIE WITHRUSH PERUMEN
19 DEC 65 1700Z

FOLL IS ITINERARY OF CECILIO PADRON AND ANTONIO SOTO BOTH
MEN HAVE SAME SCHEDULE UP TO NEW YORK: DEPT LEOP 16 DEC-VIA
SABENA FOR ATHENS; 17 DEC ATHENS TO MADRID: 17-20 DEC MADRID;
ARRIVE NEW YORK 20 DEC. PADRON ARRIVES MIAMI 22 DEC. SOTO
ARRIVES MIAMI 20 DEC. NOTE: WITH
DEPARTURE OF SOTO WITHRUSH HAS THREE HELICOPTERS BUT ONLY ONE
PILOT.

SECRET

CFN
343 CECILIO PADRON ANTONIO SOTO NEW YORK DEC VIA SABENA
ATHENS 17 DEC ATHENS MADRID 17-20 DEC MADRID NEW YORK 27 DEC
PADRON MIAMI 02 DEC SOTO MIAMI 27 DEC SOTO WITHRUSH
BT

SECRET

--- Page 5 ---

DISPATCH
Chief, KUCURL, Chief, JMWAVE

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

INFO
Chief, Africa Division

FROM
Chief of Station, Leopoldville

PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING:
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING

SUBJECT
WITHRUSH/Antonio SOTO Y VASQUES and Cecelio Juan PADRON SANCHEZ

MICROFILM
ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES
For your information and such action with ODURGE as you deem appropriate.

1. Attached is a self-explanatory Memorandum for Record concerning the above captioned individuals.

2. On 15 December, Ernesto Despaigne, the administrative officer, confronted these men with the information in the attached memorandum. Both then admitted that they forged the passports themselves for the purpose of obtaining a visitors visa to Spain. They also claim that an unidentified friend in Miami sent these passports to them.

3. Both men have been told that their action in forging the passports was a very serious matter, particularly so since they are not yet PBPRIME citizens. Sufficeth to say both were shaken considerably over the prospect that we might make the attached information available to ODURGE.

4. To the extent possible, JMWAVE is requested to inform future contractees that if they commit such acts while on duty in the Congo they will be relieved of their jobs.

Patrick T. RICANDA.

Attachment:
Memo for Record did 14 Dec 65

Distribution:
Orig1-C. KUCURL, what
1-C, JMWAVE, Glat
1-C, AF, who att.
1-copy filed 201-294544 File in 301-287481

ACA-3274

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

DATE
HQS FILE NUMBER
AND MUSHER

--- Page 6 ---

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD
14 Dec 65
SUBJECT: Antonio SOTO Y VASQUES
201-794
Cecelio Juan PADRON SANCHEZ
201-287481

1. On the afternoon of 13 December Colonial Touart, Defense Attache, called me to say that the Spanish Embassy Charge, Varella, had called him about SOTO and PADRON who were pilots for F. A. C. and who were applying for visas to Spain. VARELLA questioned the validity of their passports, which were Cuban, and which, according to VARELLA, were renewed 7 June 1965 for SOTO and 26 August 1965 for PADRON. The renewal stamps they were renewed in Havana, Cuba. TOUART asked me about and I told him I knew nothing about it and whether the Spanish Embassy gave them visas or not was of no concern to me.

2. On 14 December TOUART came back to see me saying he had seen both passports because VARELLA had been over to see him about the matter. TOUART said that VARELLA was perturbed about the matter and remarked a number of times about the incompetence of KUBARK to permit men in their employ to have such phony documents. (NOTE I also gathered that TOUART was a little gleeful also at what he thought was poor handling of personnel on our part.) TOUART asked what he should do. I told him not to do anything and deny any knowledge of these men. Also VARELLA did not want this to get back to these men, we could only discuss this with TOUART. I gather, regards himself as the great go-between, to help but his Spanish brethren. I told TOUART I would look into the matter from our own internal but that was not VARELLA's basis, and the less we become involved the better.

3. TOUART said that VARELLA brought the passports over to him this morning and he copied the following information from the passports:

Antonio SOTO VASQUES, Cuban passport number 30126, dated 7 June 1965
Mariana, Cuba
379 E. 64TH Street
Also has U.S. Immigration Form-13 dated May 26, 1963

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000
SUBJECT: Antonio SOTO Y VASQUES - Cecelio Juan PADRON SANCHEZ

Cecelio Juan PADRON SANCHEZ - Cuban passport number 46128 issued at Havana, Cuba - 26 August 1965.

U.S. address: 2040 N.W. Flagler Avenue, Apt. 4. Miami.
1-512 Form dated March 15, 1965

4. A review of the records of these men revealed the following:

a. SOTO - Arrived Leopoldville from Miami on 31 May 1965. If above information correct, SOTO obtained a Cuban passport after his arrival here because the alleged date of his passport is 7 June 1965, one week after his arrival in Leopoldville.

b. PADRON - Arrived Leopoldville 17 March via Pan Am. His Cuban passport, according to TOUART, was dated 26 August 1965, five months after his arrival here.

5. I will investigate through Ernesto DESPAIGNE because it may be that they have purchased passports after arrival here.

--- Page 8 ---

SECRET
201No. 294544

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, SOD/AB/OPS/3
Larry Murphy

Operational Approval is hereby granted in the case of:
SOTO Vasquez, Antonio
for the purpose specified in your request
dated
8 December 1965.

This Approval is based upon evaluation of information available to this Office, and is granted under authority contained in CSI and CSI-F 10-5.

Date:
14 December 1965

Edward P. Brown
CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

Distribution:
Orig. to Addressee
to Files

FORM
11-64
SECRET
VOLATE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000

SECRET
PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE
PART II
OPERATIONAL INFORMATION

INSTRUCTIONS TO CASE OFFICER
1. This form must be filled in by the case officer of appropriate authority on the basis of the best available information. It is not to be shown to the subject.

2. Normally, headquarters will be unable to issue an approval unless requester furnishes answers to all questions in PRO parts I and II. However, in an emergency provisional approval may be obtained by complying with the applicable provisions of FR 10-213, paragraph 64, 8. 120 and 1d. Thereafter the usual method to document or complete the case must be followed as set forth in FR 10-215

3. Three (3) completed copies of PRO part I (including copy in subject's handwriting, if possible) and to (2) completed copies of this form must be sent to headquarters as soon as possible.

4. Data acquired later must be sent to headquarters in PRO format in two (2) copies.

5. Fill in all items, if information obtainable. If item not applicable write "NA." If additional space required for item, use reverse side of page keyed to appropriate item number.

CRYPTONYM
PSEUDONYM
Antonio SOTO Vasquez

SECTION I
CONTACT AND DEVELOPMENT

1. INDICATE HOW, WHEN, WHERE, WHY AND HOW SUBJECT WAS FIRST CONTACTED OR DEVELOPED.
Initial job application to Roberts Diesel (principal agent, Miami, Fla) on 1000 for job as pilot.

2. INDICATE WHETHER SUBJECT COULD BE TURNED OVER QUICKLY AND IN A SECURE MANNER TO ANY RESPONSIBLE CASE OFFICER FOR HANDLING. IF SO, INDICATE TO WHOM.
Subject could be turned over to any responsible case officer. Knowledge of Spanish and aviation would most helpful.

3. LIST OTHER CASE OFFICERS WHO HAVE HANDLED SUBJECT OR WHOM HE KNOWS OR HAS KNOWN. GIVE NAMES BY WHICH THEY HAVE BEEN KNOWN.
Not well known to Station or Spindle.

FORM 14-201
1050a Previous Editions.
7-59
SECRET

--- Page 10 ---

14-00000

SECTION II
SECRET
MOTIVATION AND CONTROL

1. ESTIMATE SUBJECT'S MOTIVATION. (Be detached, if possible cite evidence and not use stock comment such as "anti-communist.")
In, desire to maintain status, also a political anti-Castro.

2. INDICATE WHAT CONTROL, IF ANY, EXISTS OVER THE SUBJECT. (If no control, or if there is a lack of real control explain.)
No real control exists over subject other than financial. Resident alien status could offer a factor of control if authorization were granted for this maneuver.

SECTION III
COVER

1. COVER USED BY SUBJECT AND CASE OFFICER IN THEIR MEETINGS: The agent represents him to the best of his ability.
The agent is overtly friendly. US affiliation is, in principle, not interest is overtly friendly. US affiliation is, in principle, not known. Principal agent represents him in turn is done. However, realistic to assume.

2. COVER USED BY SUBJECT IN OBTAINING HIS INFORMATION AND IN CONTACTING HIS INFORMANTS.
NA

3. INDICATE SERVICE FOR WHICH SUBJECT THINKS HE. (Will work) (Is working).
In all probability subject will be aware that the US is of interest.

SECTION IV
INTELLIGENCE CONNECTIONS AND TRAINING

1. EXPLAIN SUBJECTS KNOWN PAST OF PRESENT CONNECTION WITH ANY OTHER INTELLIGENCE SERVICE. INDICATE THE EXTENT SUCH CONNECTION IS KNOWN OVERTLY.
None known.

2. LIST OTHER INDIVIDUALS (Agents, relatives, friends) KNOW OF SUBJECT'S PRESENT INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.
Probably wife.

3. EXPLAIN ANY TRAINING SUBJECT HAS HAD IN CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS.
None

SECTION V
COLLABORATION POTENTIAL

1. INDICATE OTHER FOREIGN POWER SUBJECT WOULD BE MOST LIKELY TO COLLABORATE WITH BECAUSE OF HIS IDEOLOGY OF PAST ASSOCIATIONS. EXPLAIN.
None.

SECRET

--- Page 11 ---

SECTION VI
SECRET
OPERATIONAL USE CONTACT

1. SUBJECT HAS BEEN USED OR CONTACTED BEFORE INDICATE INFORMATION HE WAS FURNISHED.
NA

2. INDICATE HOW AND FROM WHOM SUBJECT OBTAINS INFORMATION.
NA

3. INDICATE WHAT INSTRUCTIONS ARE GIVEN SUBJECT AS TO THE DISPOSITION OF INFORMATION HE ACQUIRES.
NA

4. DETAIL SUBJECT'S PROPOSED FL OR CI TYPE USE OR DUTIES.
NA

5. DETAIL SUBJECTS PROPOSED PP, PM TYPE USE OR DUTIES.
As a pilot only.

SECTION VII
PROPOSED LIAISON OR OPERATIONAL ACTIVITY

A. DETAIL SUBJECT'S PROPOSED LIAISON TYPE CONTACT OF OPERATIONAL USE) WITH A FOREIGN GOVERNMENT.
NA

B. HERE SUBJECT IS AN OFFICIAL MEMBER OF A FOREIGN GOVERNMENT.
NA

C. HERE SUBJECT IS AN OFFICIAL MEMBER OF AN OFFICE AGENCY.
NA

SECTION VIII
AGENCY RELATIONSHIP WITH SUBJECT

1. EXPLAIN NATURE OF AGENCY RELATIONSHIP WITH SUBJECT.
Subject under ostensible Montreal shows the agent to being sponsored by the Although presumably he knows the agent to being sponsored by the US.

SECRET

--- Page 12 ---

14-00000

SECRET
SECTION IX
QUALIFICATIONS FOR OTHER OPERATIONS

INDICATE SPECIAL ABILITIES, TALENTS, OR QUALIFICATIONS POSSESSED BY SUBJECT WHICH COULD CONCEIVABLY BE UTILIZED FOR OTHER OPERATIONS
Obliged

SECTION X
COMMITMENTS

1. IF IT IS PROPOSED TO PAY SUBJECT A REGULAR SALARY, INDICATE THE WEEKLY AMOUNT. IF PAYMENT TO BE MADE IN EXCHANGE FOR INFORMATION, COMMODITIES, SUBSIDY OR OTHER METHOD. SPECIFY AND GIVE DETAILS.
Subject's contract calls for wage pay of $800 per month, $10 per flight hour over sixty hours, $20 per flight hour which is considered hazardous. Contract additionally contains life insurance up to $40,000.

2. EXPLAIN ANY PROMISES, OTHERWISE, NOT COVERED HEREIN, MADE TO SUBJECT. (Example: Commitments regarding evacuation of subject and family.)
None known.

SECTION XI
CLEARANCE AND SECURITY

1. INDICATE THE FIELD AGENCIES AND FIELD FILES WITH WHICH SUBJECT'S NAME HAS BEEN CHECKED AND THE RESULTS.
Station, PT, IND, Crent, A, Pelted no Has

2. INDICATE OTHER INVESTIGATIVE MEASURES TAKEN TO VERIFY BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION FURNISHED BY SUBJECT.
None

3. INDICATE WHETHER OR NOT PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL OR OPERATIONAL APPROVAL FOR SUBJECT'S USE HAS BEEN PREVIOUSLY OBTAINED.
Ave. PA

4. DATE APPROVAL OBTAINED
5. EVALUATE SUBJECT'S CHARACTER, RELIABILITY AND SECURITY, CITING EVIDENCE WHERE POSSIBLE.
Subject believed reliable with no known over warrior traits. No known security pro to date.

6. EXPLAIN ANY SITUATION OR INDISCRETION IN WHICH SUBJECT MAY HAVE BEEN INVOLVED, WHICH MUST BE EVALUATED FROM A CE/OPERATIONAL SECURITY VIEWPOINT.
None.

SECTION XI
SUBJECT'S PERSONAL HABITS

1. USE OF LIQUOR, DRUGS: GAMBLING, PARAMOURS,
OK habits.
SECRET

--- Page 13 ---

SECRET
SECTION XIV.
GENERAL

AVOCATIONAL INTERESTS
SUBJECT'S HOBBIES &
IN SPORTS.

INDICATE WHETHER THE SUBJECT'S ABILITIES AND OTHER CHARACTERISTICS ARE SUCH AS HE COULD PASS AS A NATIVE OF A COUNTRY OR REGION OTHER THAN HIS OWN. EXPLAIN
Latin Central

INDICATE WHETHER INFORMATION IN PRO PARTS I AND II WAS OBTAINED BY RESEARCH, CLANDESTINE ASSESSMENT, FILES, CORRESPONDENCE OF OTHER MEANS.
Play Harted supplied by the work of files by easy

IF OTHER THAN ROUTING ACTION IS REQUIRED I.E. EMERGENCY CONDITIONS RECONTACT ARRANGEMENTS WHAT BONA FIDES INDIVIDUAL COULD CONTACT AND WHEN TERMINATION OF SUBJECT IS EFFECTED. PLEASE EXPLAIN.
See para. 43b, supra

SECTION XV
GIVE FULL DETAILS I.E. RECOGNITION SIGNALS, SANITIZED ADDRESSES, ETC. FOR MAKING CONTACT WITH SUBJECT.
NA

SECTION XVI
MISCELLANEOUS OPERATIONAL DATA AND REMARKS
NA

Signature of
APPROPRIATE SENIOR
SECRET

--- Page 14 ---

14-00000

SECRET
REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW

DATE
23 November 1965

TO:
SOD/AB/OPS/3 -- Larry Murphy

FROM: CHIEF, CI/OA
// Edward P. Brown

C NO.
201 - 294544

SUBJECT:
SOTO Vasquez, Antonio

IN ORDER THAT FURTHER CONSIDERATION MAY BE GIVEN YOUR REQUEST FOR APPROVAL IN THIS CASE, IT IS REQUESTED THAT YOU FURNISH THIS OFFICE THE INFORMATION CHECKED BELOW, OR REVIEW INFORMATION AS INDICATED.

☒ PRO II
☐ FIELD TRACES
☐ OPERATIONAL AND DIVISION TRACES
☐ TECHNICAL INTERROGATION
☐ REVIEW OF STAFF/D DOSSIER
☐ REVIEW OF STAFF/D COLLATERAL INFORMATION
☐ REVIEW OF SECURITY OFF. REPORT AT CI/OA
☐ REVIEW OF SEC. OFF: CONCURRENT MEMO AT CI/OA
☐ REVIEW OF FOR REPORT AT CI/OA
☐ REVIEW OF ATTACHED REFERENCE
☐ OTHERS (See Remark)
GREEN LIST
NOTICE
REMARKS:
S1949
S15509
THEAC AND S1005
POA expired on 21 November 1965. Please submit PRQ
Part II. If, within 30 days, no further interest in Subject has
been indicated, POA will be automatically cancelled.

PRQ. I Dent 2 Dec 65
FAM 889a
SECRET

--- Page 15 ---

☐
CABBIT TO FILE
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
TOTAL COPIES
5006

T-10
☒ RID COPY
FILE
SECRET 1221162
LEOP INFO DIR CITE WAVE 7233
CHAPPIE WITHRUSH PERUMEN

REF LEOP 2232 (IN 93070)
LORENTZ MIAMI SENDS
12 Nov 65 9375

1. AS SOP SINCE NOV 62, ALL PILOTS LICENSES ARE CHECKED FOR VALIDITY AND CURRENCY. IF NOT CURRENT, THIS IS SUBJECTS RESPONSIBILITY UNLESS PREVIOUS KUBARK INTERCESSION TO ASSIST. ALL CAUSED KUCURL REP TO ADVISE PIEDRA (F) FROMISE ANY ASSISTANCE. (R. GARCIA, ROJAS, SOTO, LORENTZ NOT REPEAT ART CASE WAS SPECIFIC EXAMPLE THAT NO KUBARK HELP WOULD BE GIVEN HEREBY SUBJECT WAS ADVISED DIRECTLY AND CLAIMED HE WOULD MANAGE FARU FRIE APPARENTLY UNDERSTOOD IN SAN JUAN.

2. IF LEOP SOP THAT VALID AND APPROPRIATE FAA LICENSE ARE NOV REPEAT NOW NECESSARY FOR WITHRUSH FLYING, PLS ADVISE.

3. FYI: XP) RECEIVED FAA CLASS 1 PHYSICAL AT OUR EXPENSE PRIMARILY FOR MEDICAL PURPOSES NOT FOR LICENSING PURPOSES.

SECRET

CFN 7209 2232 SOP NOV 52 R GARCIA ROJAS SOTO VALLICERGO
LORENTZ NOT TO PIEDRA PP SAN JUAN FAA WITHRUSH P FAA I NOT FOR
SECRET

--- Page 16 ---

14-00
(147 PERSONNEL CABLE LOCATION)
SOTO, Vasquez, Antonio
201 NUMBER
294544

ACTION TAKEN
NOMINATED TUSH
FIELD TRACES REQUESTED
FIELD TRACES RETURNED N.D.
FIELD TRACES REQUESTED
FIELD TRACES RETURNED N.D.
FIELD TRACE REQUEST
FIELD TRACES RETURNED N.D.
LOCAL TRACES N.D.
LOCAL POLICE AND CREDIT TRACES N.D.
LOCAL FUT TRACKS R.D.
CONTRACT SIGNED
NOTIFICATION OF POA GRANTED
DEPART US
ARRIVED LEOPOLDVILLE
CONTRACT TERMINATION
RETURNED TO TAK
THANKING INSTRUCTIONS
LOFLOTTER
WITHRUSH NUMBER 87

NUMBER
CITE NUMBER
IN NUMBER DATE
LEOP 9923
07557
July 1965
WAVE 2517
81436
June 1965

--- Page 17 ---

14-00000

TO:
Chief, KUCURL

FROM:
Chief, IUPAGAN

SUBJECT
WITHRUSH Helicopter Training and Familiarization in 47G3B1

SECRET
Dispatch No. UAPA-0101
Date: 22 JUN 1965

1. The two PBRUMEN pilot trainees arrived in Iden on 4 May 1965. Helicopter training started on 6 May and terminated 13 May. Iden B arrived at the training area 9 May to receive briefings and familiarization in all aspects WITHRUSH helicopter project. Iden B. departed 12 May 1965.

2. The surrounding area of Iden A and Iden C was utilized as the training site with most of the training taking place a few miles south of Iden C. The local cover story was that IUPAGAN was training pilots with view of using them to ferry helicopters to northwestern PEPRIME, where they would be utilized by IUPEAK. Cover story was backstopped through Iden D and Iden E (cleared ARK witting). There were no security problems encountered during the training period. Some of the precautions taken were use of alias identification, first name basis for everyone, payment by cash, luggage tags and tickets secured, and close but subtle supervision of the students by the case officer.

3. Following is a resume of helicopter training and familiarization received by each student. Included are instructor pilot and case officer evaluations:

IDEN F
a. Iden received training in all normal helicopter maneuvers, pro-flight, post-flight and cockpit procedures. Additional training was as follows:
1) Radio procedures with UHF, VHF, HF and LF ADF.
2) Dead reckoning and cross-country 4+10 hours.
3) Personnel rappelling, personnel parachuting and use of cargo slings-2+00-hours.
4) Ground school:

SECRET

--- Page 18 ---

14-00000

SECRET
-2-
UAPA-0101

a) 47G3B1 exams.
b) Navigation and flight planning.
c) Weight and balance.
d) General oral questioning and orientation 9+00.
e) Supplemental reading.
6) Flying time:
Dual 21+55
Solo 2+30
Student Dual 1+50
TOTAL 26+15 Hours

b. Prior to his arrival at the training site Iden F received 12+20 hours of dual flying instruction on pre-flight maneuvers and emergency procedures, which included 4 hours of autorotation.

c. The language barrier between student and instructor retarded the student's progress to some extent. His navigation, flight planning and weight and balance work is limited. It is recommended that he have access to a helicopter each day in order to buildup his time.

d. The student was willing, cooperative and intelligent.

IDEN G
a. Iden G's training schedule included much of the same material as that of Iden F except that his personnel rappelling, parachuting and sling work amounted to 1+35 hours. His cross-country time amounted to approximately 1+50 hours.
1) flight time:
Dual 10+10
Solo 4+05
Student Dual 1+50
TOTAL 16+05 Hours

b. Prior to his arrival at the training site Iden G received 6+50 hours of flight training, which included 3 hours of autorotation.

c. The instructor pilot reports that Iden G has progressed exceptionally well and that his pilot background is very good. Iden G contributed substantially to Iden F's training.

d. It should be noted that Iden G received instruction and 50 hours flight time in a 47G3B1 helicopter during helicopter training conducted by IUPAGAN 27 March - 15 April 1965.

IDEN B
SECRET

--- Page 19 ---

14-00000

SECRET
UAPA-0101

a. Iden B received training which exposed him to all aspects of Bell 47G3B1 helicopter flight and support requirements.

b. The flight familiarization included almost all of the normal helicopter maneuvers along with radio procedures. His total flight time amounted to 5+30 hours. Both instructor pilots noted that his flying procedures were rough, but were improving steadily. He did not solo inasmuch as both pilots indicated that he was not ready for solo.

c. Iden B wash given approximately 9 hours orientation in helicopter maintenance and from 3-4 hours of orientation with regard to the contents of the support kits and accessory equipment.

d. Complete assessment of this individual is difficult to make, as he was only in the training area for a short period of time. However, the following information may be helpful in making an evaluation:

1) Flying proficiency in 47G3B1 is below par at this time. He requires more dual and emergency procedures.

2) His conversation and experience indicates that he is more knowledgeable of Hughes equipment than he is of Bell equipment.

3) Iden B appears to be a very extroverted type of individual. In any conversation he does most of the talking.

4) The Instructor pilots felt that his knowledge of helicopters leaned to the "manual" side rather than the practical side. He seemed, according to the instructor pilot, to have a "shallow" knowledge of helicopter operations.

The case officer for the WITHRUSH pilot training was Alfred F. PELANDER. Instructor pilots were Iden H and Alexander V. DECLIPPLE.

Philip L. MUSHER
Chief, IUPAGAN

Attachment:
s/c (Idens)

Distribution:
0 & 2-KUCIRL
J-IUPAGAN
SECRET

--- Page 20 ---

14-00000

SECRET
Separate Cover Attachment to
Dispatch No. UAPA-0101

Iden A - Albuquerque, New Mexico
Iden B - Mr. Thomas Baldwin
Iden C - Santa Fe, New Mexico
Iden D - Mr. Edward Scholz, Chief Pilot Reg. #3, USFS
Iden E - Mr. Andrew G. Brennus, Chief Fire Control Officer Reg. #3, USFS
Iden F - Mr. Orlando Izqueirdo
Iden G - Mr. Antonio Soto Vasquez
Iden H - Mr. Elwood W. Nelson

SECRET

--- Page 21 ---

TO:
Chief, KUCURL

FROM:
Chief, IUPAGAN

SUBJECT: Helicopter Flight Training for WITHRUSHI Objectives

SECRET
Dispatch No. UA PA-0100
Date: 22 JUN 1965

1. The primary purposes of this program was to prepare two WITHRUSH employees (Iden A and Iden B) to operate a 703B1 Bell Helicopter under simulated tactical situations involving rescue and reconnaissance operations. Secondarily, Idens A and B were to be familiarized to the fullest extent with the operational capability of the helicopter and its accessory equipment. Iden A did not prove adaptable to this type of aircraft and failed to complete transition training. Iden B completed the prescribed training, complete transition training. evidencing consistent performance progress as well as alertness, independence and a cooperative attitude.

2. Period of Training:
Training commenced for Iden A on 15 March and for Iden B on 27 March. Iden B's training was satisfactorily completed on 15 April. A total of 50 hours of training time was logged during the entire course of instruction.

3. Instructors:
The training instructors utilized were Alexander V. DECLIPPEL and Iden C. TUPAGAN PDO's provided training as to cargo sling operation, rappelling and operational capabilities of special equipment.

4. Training Areas Utilized:
Training was conducted entirely within Iden D utilizing suitable terrain in the vicinity of Idens E, F, G, and H. Airports and motel accommodations in or adjacent to these localities were used.

5. Security:
SECRET

--- Page 22 ---

14-00000

SECRET
-2-
UAPA-0100

Sound operational security practices were employed in the handling of Idens A and B as to relationship with the general public. It was not necessary for either the instructors or the students to refer to IU FLAG in dealings with the general public. A logical cover of training for IUPEAK operations sufficed to handle any local inquiries concerning reasons for the aircraft's being in the vicinity or the purposes of the training. No known breaches of security as to identity of personnel or the true purposes of the training occurred.

6. Training Program:
The following training agenda was covered during the period of Iden B's instruction:

Helicopter Training Program:
a. Cockpit procedures
b. Review of supplemental reading, instruction manuals, etc.
c. Warmup and shutdown procedures
d. Pré-flight procedures
e. Basic pre-solo maneuvers:
1) High and low reconnaissance
2) Approach to confined areas
3) Pinnacle operations
4) High altitude landings, hoverings, etc.
5) Slope operations
6) Low-level cross-country
7) Navigation
8) Emergency procedures (very limited)
9) Use of cargo nets, litters, cargo racks
10) Personnel rappelling
11) Personnel parachute jumping
12) Limited and restricted solo

7. Critique:
a. The training program should be formalized to a greater degree. A syllabus of items to be covered has been prepared and reviewed by Alexander V. DECIPPEL. A copy of this syllabus is attached and it is felt will assist in providing a guide to the instructor and permit a more orderly procedure and better utilization of time expended. It can be adapted easily as a statistical report covering training.

b. The training areas utilized from a standpoint of terrain, climate and accessibility for maintenance proved acceptable.

Philip L. MUSHER
Chief, IUPAGAN

Attachments: h/w & s/c

Distribution:
0 & 2-KUCIRL
3-IUPAGAN

--- Page 23 ---

14-00000

SECRET
Separate Cover Attachment to
Dispatch No. UAPA-0100

Iden A - Mr. Carlos Justi
Iden B - Mr. Antonio Soto Vasquez
Iden C - Mr. Elwood Nelson
Iden D- State of New Mexico
Iden E - Albuquerque, New Mexico
Iden F - Santa Fe, New Mexico
Iden G - Deming, New Mexico
Iden H - Silver City, New Mexico

SECRET

--- Page 24 ---

14-00000
ITEMS
031
11003
DITEMS TO BE INCLUDED IN
HELICOPTER MASTER TRAINING PRE-SOLO CHECKLIST
COCKPIT PROCEDURES
Starting & warming
Shutdown Procedures
Electrical sys er oper
MANEUVERS
Helicopter controls (air demon)
Straight & level flight
Normal Climb
Normal descent
Level turns.
Turns
Hesabat mans.
Hover over a fixed spot
Hovering twenst
right
Hovering turnst left
Hover fig. Flight:
Hovering flights
forward
sideward
Take-bit to lovến
Landing from hoven
Quick stops
N02861 takeoff
Sideward & rearward flight
Traffic patterns
Normal approach
Max. performance takeoff
Sted approach
Runding Lakeoff & landings
Shallow approach
Approach to confined area
Confined area takeoff
'S turns on road
Pinnacle operation
Slone operation.
dige miritule takeoffs/landings
High Ferbissance
Now reconnaissance
Operation over baurlers
Crosswind considerations
Settling with power
EXERCENTY PROCEDURES
Auto rotations, general info.
ight-in autorotation (dual)
autorotation (dual)
Isa
Tail rotor failure in flight,
Engine rive during starting
Electrical system emerg. oper
Autorotation from hover (dual)
Hyteculic failure
Usa
INTAL OPERATIONS.
itters/cargo racks
racions
sanelling
Katinking
filear plannin
DAYS
78

--- Page 25 ---

FROM
ACTION
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED
SECRET
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED
YR. FILE, AF 6, WH/C8, 07/0n
UN 11
HOME
SLOTTED
R ET 311825Z
WAVE FOR LORENTZ INFO 5:10
CHAPPIE PBR UMER WIT PUSH
31 M 85-0517
LEOP 9200
REF WAVE 2392 (IN 79133)*
SUBJECTS REF ATA LEOP 318553Z.
SECRET
CFN
* RE MARIO GINEBRA,
ERNESTO PEIND.
SZCKET

--- Page 26 ---

Jmwale
826
REPRODUCTION PROTUND

SECRET
YA. VILE AFL WAER WEL CLA

29 Mar 6979133
SECRET 3008362
PRIORITY LEOP INFO BRUS DIR CITE WAVE 2392
CHAPPIE/PBRUMEN/VITHRUSH
LORENTZ MIAMI SEND SI
LEAVE
MARIO GINEBRA, ANTONIO SOTO AND ERNESTO PEYNO DEPARTING HY
SABENA 548 ON MAY 29. ARRIVE BRUSSELS 930 LOCAL HAY 30.
BRUSSELS SABENA 511 AT 2005 LOCAL ON 39 HAY.
LOCAL 31 MAY. LEOP PLEASE FEET.
ARRIVE LEOP 6609
SECRET
CFN
SECRET

--- Page 27 ---

JAWAVE
ACTION
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED
VR. FILE WHICH, Web, clo

REPRODUCTION PRONIDITED

UNIT
GLOTTED
Sod 2230
ET 2901012
PRIORITY LEOP INFO PRIORITY BRUS DIR CITE HAVE 2317
CHAPPIE PBRUMEN WITHRUSH
LORENTZ MIAMI SENDS:
2965786