14-00000
104-10164-10032 [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

INTERNAL USE ONLY
UNCLASSIFIED
SUBJECT: Morris BLOCK
CONFIDENTIAL
☐ SECRET
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

WE/2 Marion E. Linde 6 February 1959

OFFICER'S COMMENTS (Number each comment to show to whom and when)
INITIALS DATE RETURN TO CIA
1. C/ME/2 13 FEB 1959
2. CI/Liaison
3. RI/AN
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
111213/MIS
RID/F
CSC - 3/753,461

ABSTRACT
DEX
DATE 11 FEB 1959

UNCLASSIFIED
GOVERNMENT USE ONLY
VER PREVIOUS EDITIONS

SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000
SECRET
13 FEB 1959

TO: Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Attention: Mr. J.J. Papich
Deputy Director, Plans

SUBJECT: Mollie BLOCK; Morris BLOCK (1-194231)

1. The following information on Subjects has been received from the Dutch Internal Security Service (BVD).

2. On 4 November 1958 Mollie BLOCK (born 6 November 1911 in New York), holder of American passport No. 116708, left Schiphol Airport in Amsterdam on a KLM flight bound for Moscow via Warsaw. She traveled with her child Johanna Morris BLOCK, born in 1950, who was to be in possession of a Greek passport. Mrs. BLOCK had originally planned to fly to Moscow on 2 September, but her trip was postponed by the circumstances outlined below.

3. On 30 August 1959 Morris BLOCK, husband of Mollie BLOCK, arrived at Amsterdam on a KLM flight from Montreal. BLOCK was carrying American passport No. 921617, issued 12 April 1956 but changed to read 12 April 1959 so that it would appear to be still valid. Morris BLOCK was refused entry to The Netherlands on the basis of his falsified passport. The American Consulate in Amsterdam validated the passport for a single return trip to New York, and he was sent to New York on a KLM plane at 2359 hours on 30 August 1958.

4. Morris BLOCK was born in New York on 30 March 1920; he is a machinist by occupation, and his home address was given as 238 Corbin Place, Brooklyn, New York. BLOCK's passport carried the following entries:

England II via London Airport 23-7-1957
OUT via Dover 24-7-1957
IN via Dover 16-10-1957
OUT via London Airport 16-10-1957
OUT via Strasbourg 25-7-1957

SECRET
CS COPY 201-194231

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000
SECRET

IN via Kastrup Airport 15-10-1957
OUT via Kastrup Airport 16-10-1957
Canada II via Montreal Airport 17-10-1957

BLOCK stated to the Dutch passport control officer that he had visited the USSR 25 July 1957 - 15 October 1957 as a delegate to the World Youth Festival held in Moscow in 1957. BLOCK stated it was his plan to travel from The Netherlands to Moscow and to settle himself and his family there. He said his visa for Russia was ready at the Soviet Embassy in The Hague and that since he was not permitted to obtain a new valid passport, he had changed the date of issuance of his former passport to make it appear to be still valid. Since he had not known for sure that he would be allowed to depart from the United States, his wife and child were to take a later plane to Amsterdam after his wife knew he had reached Canada. He said that he had been unemployed in the United States and that his wife had had to support the family on her salary of $65 a week.

5. BLOCK stated to the Dutch passport control officer that there was only one country in the world where freedom was really possible, and that he wished to go there. He no longer wanted to live in America, for the laws were made there by three or four families and the rest had to fall in line. He had had more than enough of the clique around Eisenhower. He stated he no longer valued his American nationality and asked if they could not admit him so that he could apply to the Russian Embassy. He said his wife had the money and tickets for the trip to Moscow from Amsterdam.

6. BLOCK had with him a suitcase and a cage with a parrot; his wife was to take the rest of their belongings with her. Also in his possession were:

a. Membership book for District 65, Retail, Wholesale, and Department Store Union, AFL-CIO, 13 Astor Place, New York 3, issued to Morris BLOCK - 238 Corbin Place, Brooklyn 35, membership number 58923, membership paid up to 25 August 1958. In addition, he carried a District 65, AFL-CIO Employment Office guide giving a registration date of 29 July 1958.

b. Birth certificate No. 14861, issued by State of New York certifying the birth of Morris Block on 3 March 1920.

c. Two visiting cards on which were BN 35945 and BE 31054.

d. A small pin with the legend "VIth World Festival of Youth and Students Moscow 1957")

e. Two visiting cards, on which were:

SECRET

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000
SECRET

Stanley Faulkner, Counselor at Law, 9 East 10th Street, New York 16, Lexington 2-7760, Hunter 7-4093 was written on this.

Stella Eliashow, Remedial Reading, English Tutoring, 56 Seventh Avenue, New York 11, New York.

7. BLOCK also threw away a used piece of carbon paper which he obviously did not want to have with him or his return to the USA. The carbon read as follows:

Mindbur Clothing Company
97 5th Avenue
New York City, NY
For Mr. Jack KLOERT
27 August 1958

1 round-trip United Air ticket 162.2.361424 $ 54.90
La Guardia-Cleveland-La Guardia 10% tax 5.49

For Mrs. Jack ELGERT
1 round-trip United Air ticket 162.2.361425 $ 40.85
10% tax 4.02
$105.33

8. BLOCK had $63 with him. A room had been reserved at the Hotel Krasnapolsky in Amsterdam for him and his wife, since they had planned to travel together to Moscow on 2 September 1958. On his departure for the United States, BLOCK explained as follows: "Oh, I have to go back to the United States, but I have no money and had not paid for the trip, and what more can happen to me?"

CSC 801 – 3/753,461

Orig & 1 - PBT
1 - RI/AN
1 - OT/R&A
1 - CI/Staff
WR/2

Prepared by: Marion E. Linde
10 February 1959

SECRET
201-194231
