```markdown
14-00000

104-10221-10026
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES: 1

ROUTING
☐ FILE MID
☐ CDO INDEX
☐ FILE INFO FILE NO.
☐ DESTROY ☐ RETURN TO BRANCH

CONF: SECRET/BYBAT
TO SASTAVE
INFO: D/WN/CS, D/SECUR, C/AFY

DATE: 2 SEP 65
DISSEN BY: PEH

TO: DIRECTOR
FROM: C/COD/CLC/COV
EXT: 5265

RE: CHAPPIE WITHRUSH TAKUMEEN SECURITY
JAVE 2012 (II: 85315)
CITE DIRECTOR

EASED ON PETER 07 170 DEVELOPED BY WOÈCHE INVESTIGATION,
SUBJECT HERETOFORE CONSIDERED SUITABLE FOR FUTURE USE ON WITHRUSH.
SECURITY RETEST NOT DESIRED.

CA BENNING CANCELLED.
EED OF MESSAGE

Requested Zars. reconsider use of Antonio (SOTO) Vazquez on WITHRUSH (ELITE)

NUMBER: 32999
294.544
773056

SOD/AB/C3 Jin Smith (telecon)
SOD/AB/C23 Larry Murphy (Duet)
CI/OA Dick Ruffner (telecon)
03/108/ID Lou Vacaly (telecon)

R. Coodbart
Chief, Security/Cover, SOD
Chief, Support Staff, EOD

RELEASING OFFICER
AUTHENTICATION OF JILLA

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

TO: CHIEF, CI/OA
FROM: W. Wainwright
EXT: 414475

SECRET
REQUEST FOR CANCELLATION

SUBJECT'S NAME (Pseudo, crypt or true name)
SOTO-Vazquez, Antonio
CILOR NO. 90192
DATE OF BIRTH: 20 August 1934
PLACE OF BIRTH: Havana, Cuba

REASON(S) FOR CANCELLATION
PROJECT: WITHRUSH

1. It is requested that OA on Subject be canceled as he is of no further operational interest to this office.
Thank you for your assistance in this case.
2. Green List Name Check canceled as of this date.

SIGNATURE: William Wainwright
DATE: 2 September 1966

IF SUBJECT IS USED IN ANY CAPACITY REQUEST FOR APPROVAL MUST BE SUBMITTED TO CI/OA
NAME SHOWN IS FREUDO
AGENT'S SERVICE RECORD WILL BE FORWARDED

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, SOD/AB/OPS/3 - Larry Murphy

SECRET
No. 201-291.5sh

Operational Approval is hereby granted in the case of SOTO Vasquez, Antonio, for the purpose specified in your request dated 8 December 1965.

This Approval is based upon evaluation of information available to this Office, and is granted under authority contained in CSI and CSI-F 10-5.

Date: 1-December-1965
/s/ Edward P. Brown
CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

Distribution:
Orig. to Addresses
1 to Files

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000

SECRET
PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE
PART I - OPERATIONAL INFORMATION

DISPATCH NO.
INSTRUCTIONS TO CASE OFFICER:

1. This form must be filled in by the case officer of appropriate authority on the basis of the best available information. It is not to be shown to the subject.
2. Normally, headquarters will be unable to issue an approval unless requester furnishes answers to all questions in PRO parts I and II. However, in an emergency provisional approval may be obtained by complying with the applicable provisions of FR 10-285, paragraphs be. 8. 178 and 12d. Thereafter the usual method to document or complete the case must be followed as set forth in FR 10.215.
3. Three (3) completed copies of PRO part I (including copy in subject's handwriting, if possible) and two (2) completed copies of this form must be sent to headquarters, as soon as possible.
Data acquired later must be sent to headquarters in PRO formal in two (2) copies.
4. Fill in all items if information obtainable. If item not applicable write "NA." If additional space required for item, use reverse side of page keyed to appropriate item number.

CRYPTONYM: T/N
PSEUDONYM:
Antonio SOTO Vazquez

SECTION I - CONTACT AND DEVELOPMENT

1. INDICATE HOW, WHEN, WHERE, WHY AND BY WHOM SUBJECT WAS FIRST CONTACTED OR DEVELOPED.
Subject submitted job application to Roberto Medoll (principal agent, WITHRUSH, Miami, Fla.) on 25 March 1965 for job as WITHRUSH pilot.

2. INDICATE WHETHER SUBJECT COULD BE TURNED OVER QUICKLY AND IN A SECURE MANNER TO ANY RESPONSIBLE CASE OFFICER FOR HANDLING. IF SO, INDICATE TO WHOM.
Subject could be turned over to any responsible case officer. A knowledge of Spanish and aviation would be most helpful.

3. LIST OTHER CASE OFFICERS WHO HAVE HANDLED SUBJECT OR WHO ARE KNOWN TO SUBJECT AND GIVE NAMES BY WHICH THEY HAVE BEEN KNOWN.
George N. Sohl known to Subject as Gerald Saunders.

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000

SECRET

SECTION II - MOTIVATION AND CONTROL

1. ESTIMATE SUBJECT'S MOTIVATION. (Be detailed, if possible cite evidence. Do not use generalities such as "anti-communist.")
Financial, desire to maintain flight status, and to a lesser degree, political (anti-Castro, anti-communist).

2. INDICATE WHAT CONTROL, IF ANY, EXISTS OVER THE SUBJECT. (If no control, or if there is a lack of real control explain.)
No real control exists over Subject other than financial. His resident alien status could offer a factor of control if authorization were granted for this maneuver.

SECTION III - COVER

1. COVER USED BY SUBJECT AND CASE OFFICERS IN THEIR MEETINGS. The principal agent represents himself as an employer of the WAVE case officer, who in turn is documented as an agent of the Gov't of the Republic of the Congo. However, though no GOC Gov't interest is overtly manifested, it is realistic to assume that Subject suspects U.S. Gov't collusion in, if not outright sponsorship of the operation.

2. COVER USED BY SUBJECT IN OBTAINING HIS INFORMATION AND IN CONTACTING HIS INFORMANTS.
NA

3. INDICATE SERVICE FOR WHICH SUBJECT THINKS HE (Will work) (is working).
In all probability Subject is or will become aware that the GOC air program is under sponsorship by KUBARK.

SECTION IV - INTELLIGENCE CONNECTIONS AND TRAINING

1. EXPLAIN SUBJECT'S KNOWN PAST OR PRESENT CONNECTION WITH ANY OTHER INTELLIGENCE SERVICE. INDICATE THE EXTENT SUCH CONNECTION KNOWN OVERTLY.
None known.

2. LIST OTHER INDIVIDUALS (Agents, relatives, friends) WHO KNOW OF SUBJECT'S PRESENT INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.
Probably wife.

3. EXPLAIN ANY TRAINING SUBJECT HAS HAD IN CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS.
None known.

SECTION V - COLLABORATION POTENTIAL

1. INDICATE OTHER FOREIGN POWER SUBJECT WOULD BE MOST LIKELY TO COLLABORATE WITH BECAUSE OF HIS POLITICAL ASSOCIATIONS. EXPLAIN.
None.

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000

SECRET

SECTION VI - OPERATIONAL USE - CONTACT

1. IF SUBJECT HAS BEEN USED OR CONTACTED BEFORE, INDICATE ACTIVITIES IN WHICH HE HAS PARTICIPATED AND THE INFORMATION HE HAS FURNISHED.
NA

2. INDICATE HOW AND FROM WHOM SUBJECT OBTAINS INFORMATION.
NA

3. INDICATE WHAT HAS BEEN TOLD SUBJECT AS TO THE DISPOSITION OF INFORMATION HE FURNISHES.
NA

4. DETAIL SUBJECT'S PROPOSED FI OR CI TYPE USE OR DUTIES.
NA

5. DETAIL SUBJECT'S PROPOSED PP OR PM TYPE USE OR DUTIES.
As a pilot only.

SECTION VII - PROPOSED LIAISON OR OPERATIONAL ACTIVITY

1. DETAIL SUBJECT'S PROPOSED LIAISON TYPE CONTACT OR OPERATIONAL ACTIVITY.

A. WHERE SUBJECT IS AN OFFICIAL MEMBER OF A FOREIGN GOVERNMENT:
NA

B. WHERE SUBJECT IS AN OFFICIAL MEMBER OF AN AGENCY:
NA

SECTION VIII - AGENCY RELATIONSHIP WITH SUBJECT

1. EXPLAIN NATURE OF AGENCY RELATIONSHIP WITH SUBJECT: I.E. TRAINEE, OPPOSITE NUMBER REMUNERATION, IF ANY: AGENCY PERSONNEL KNOWN TO SUBJECT.
Subject under ostensible contract to GOC, although presumably he knows the project is being sponsored by the U.S. Government.

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000

SECRET

SECTION IX

INDICATE SPECIAL ABILITIES, TALENTS, OR QUALIFICATIONS POSSESSED BY SUBJECT WHICH COULD CONCEIVABLY BE OF VALUE IN FURTHER OPERATIONS.
He is a qualified fixed-wing and helicopter pilot.

SECTION X - COMMITMENTS

1. IF IT IS PROPOSED TO PAY SUBJECT A REGULAR SALARY, INDICATE THE WEEKLY AMOUNT. IF PAYMENT TO BE MADE IN EXCHANGE FOR COMMODITIES, SUBSIDY OR OTHER METHOD, SPECIFY AND GIVE DETAILS.
Subject's contract calls for base pay of $800 per month, $10 per flight hour over sixty hours, $10 per flight hour which is considered hazardous. Contract additionally contains life insurance up to $40,000.

2. EXPLAIN ANY PROMISES, OTHERWISE NOT COVERED HEREIN, MADE TO SUBJECT. (Example: Commitments regarding evacuation of subject and family.)
None known.

SECTION XI - CLEARANCE AND SECURITY

1. INDICATE THE FIELD AGENCIES AND FIELD FILES WITH WHICH SUBJECT'S NAME HAS BEEN CHECKED AND THE RESULTS.
WAVE Station, FBI, INS, Credit, Miami Police and Hqs files.

2. INDICATE WHAT INVESTIGATIVE MEASURES TAKEN TO VERIFY BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION FURNISHED BY SUBJECT.
None.

3. WHETHER OR NOT PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL OR OPERATIONAL APPROVAL ON SUBJECT'S USE SEEN PREVIOUSLY OBTAINED.
Yes. POA

4. DATE APPROVAL OBTAINED: 21 May 1965

5. EVALUATE SUBJECT'S CHARACTER, RELIABILITY AND SECURITY, CITING EVIDENCE, WHERE POSSIBLE.
Subject believed reliable with no known adverse character traits. No known security problems to date.

6. EXPLAIN ANY SITUATION OR INDISCRETION IN WHICH SUBJECT MAY HAVE BEEN INVOLVED WHICH MUST BE EVALUATED FROM A SECURITY/OPERATIONAL SECURITY POINT.
None.

SECTION XII - SUBJECT'S PERSONAL HABITS

1. LIST OF LIQUOR, DRUGS, GAMBLING, PARAMOURS.
No known excessive habits.

--- Page 8 ---

14-00000

SECRET

SECTION XIII - AVOCATIONAL INTERESTS

1. INDICATE SUBJECT'S HOBBIES OR INTEREST IN SPORTS, MUSIC, ETC.
Aviation.

SECTION XIV - GENERAL

1. INDICATE WHETHER SUBJECT'S LANGUAGE ABILITIES AND OTHER CHARACTERISTICS, ARE SUCH AS HE COULD PASS AS A NATIVE OF A COUNTRY OR REGION OTHER THAN HIS OWN. EXPLAIN.
Certain Central American countries.

2. INDICATE WHETHER INFORMATION IN PRO PARTS I AND II WAS OBTAINED BY RESEARCH, CLANDESTINE ASSESSMENT, FILES, CORRESPONDENCE OR OTHER MEANS.
PRQ Part I supplied by Subject; Part II by check of files by case officer.

3. IF OTHER THAN ROUTINE ACTION IS REQUIRED, IF AND WHEN TERMINATION OF SUBJECT IS EFFECTED, PLEASE EXPLAIN.
None.

SECTION XV - EMERGENCY CONDITIONS RECONTACT ARRANGEMENTS

GIVE FULL DETAILS I.E. RECOGNITION SIGNALS / WHERE COULD CONTACT BE MADE WHAT PASSWORD COULD INDIVIDUAL MAKING CONTACT USE?
NA

SECTION XVI - MISCELLANEOUS OPERATIONAL DATA AND REMARKS

DATE: 2 December 1965
SIGNATURE OF APPROPRIATE SENIOR OFFICER

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000

SECRET

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW

TO:
FROM: CHIEF, CI/CA - Edward P. Brown
SUBJECT: Antonio

IN ORDER THAT FURTHER CONSIDERATION MAY BE GIVEN YOUR REQUEST FOR APPROVAL IN THIS CASE, IT IS REQUESTED THAT YOU FURNISH THIS OFFICE THE INFORMATION CHECKED BELOW, OR REVIEW INFORMATION AS INDICATED.

☐ PRQ I
☐ PRQ II
☐ FIELD TRACES
☐ RE TRACES
☐ OPERATIONAL AND DIVISION TRACES
☐ RESULTS OF TECHNICAL INTERROGATION
☐ GREEN LIST
☐ NOTICE
☐ REMARKS AND FINAL REVIEW OF STAFFED DOSSIER
☐ REVIEW OF STAFFED COLLATERAL INFORMATION
☐ REVIEW OF SECURITY OFF REPORT AT CI/OA
☐ REVIEW OF SEC. OFF. CONCURRENT MEMO AT CI/OA
☐ REVIEW OF FOI REPORT AT CI/OA
☐ REVIEW OF ATTACHED REFERENCE
☐ OTHERS (See Remarks)

REMARKS:
POA expired on
Please submit PRQ Part II. If, within 30 days, no further interest in Subject has been indicated, POA will be automatically cancelled.

--- Page 10 ---

14-00000

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, CI/OA
SUBJECT: 201-294544
#242 369

SECRET
30 AUG 1965

Reference is made to our previous memorandum furnishing you with National Agency Checks results and confirmation of completion of favorable domestic field investigation conducted in connection with your consideration of Subject for an Operational Approval.

As noted in our previous memorandum, written reports on the field investigation were to be furnished to your office at a later date.

Attached hereto you will find the above-mentioned reports. No further action is contemplated in this matter.

Victor White
Deputy Director of Security

Enclosure:
TNV. RPT. DTD. 6/29/65

--- Page 11 ---

14-00000

SECRET
FILE NO. 242 369
DATE 29 June 1965

SYNOPSIS

Antonio SOTO has been employed periodically by Eagle Incorporated, a steamship company, since 1961. He has been utilized as a warehouse checker. SUBJECT has left his employment to accept short time flying jobs. He left Eagle Incorporated in March 1965 to accept one of these flying jobs. Four developed references favorable regarding habits, morals, reputation, and loyalty to the United States. No credit or police record in the name of SUBJECT or his spouse.

REPORT NO.

--- Page 12 ---

File #242 369

SECRET

EMPLOYMENT:
At Miami, Florida (Eagle Incorporated)

On 22 June 1965 Sam KRATISH, secretary-treasurer, 800 N.W. 2nd Avenue, was interviewed regarding Antonio SOTO. The informant stated that "Tony" has been employed by the firm periodically since 1961. SUBJECT has been used as a warehouse checker for the steamship company. He unloaded cargo coming to and from the United States. He was an excellent employee, and although he has left on several occasions, he is always eligible for rehire. The informant stated that SUBJECT is also a pilot and formerly flew in the Cuban Air Force. He has had several part time or temporary flying jobs which offer him good pay. When these jobs arise the firm allows SUBJECT to leave without jeopardizing his standing with the company. SUBJECT left in March 1965 to accept another one of these flying jobs. The informant stated that he did not know where these jobs were located, but believed that they are usually out of the United States.

REFERENCES:
At Miami, Florida

On 22 June 1965 Sam KRATISH, previously identified, was interviewed regarding SUBJECT as a developed reference. The informant stated that he considers "Tony" SOTO to be reputable and honest. He has been associated with him on a professional basis since 1961 and his associations have all been satisfactory. The informant considers SUBJECT to an excellent worker and is completely honest. The informant stated that he has often left SUBJECT alone with valuable cargo and that there has never been any dispute over SUBJECT trustworthiness or integrity. SUBJECT is a Cuban exile who left Cuba because of the CASTRO regime. SUBJECT has never espoused any political ideologies while he has worked at the firm, but the informant stated that he is aware of the fact that the SUBJECT is anti-CASTRO and that he is favorably disposed towards the United States form of government.

--- Page 13 ---

SECRET
File #242 369

The informant stated that he knew nothing that he considered to be unfavorable regarding SUBJECT's character.

On 22 June 1965 J. C. WILDER, supervisor, Eagle Incorporated, 800 N.W. 2nd Avenue, was interviewed regarding SUBJECT as a developed reference. The informant stated that he has been acquainted with SUBJECT since 1961 on a professional basis. SUBJECT has been a warehouse checker. His main line of work is flying, and he was formerly a pilot in the Cuban Air Force. However, after CASTRO took over the island SUBJECT fled and has worked at several different locations flying on a part time basis. When SUBJECT does not have a job flying, he always comes to the company, and because of his good work habits he is always hired. The Informant stated that SUBJECT left the company in March 1965 to take a job flying at some unknown location. Informant stated that he has found SUBJECT to be pleasant, completely reliable, and a man of integrity. There is no question of morality or sobriety, and the informant believed SUBJECT was loyal to the United States.

On 22 June 1965 Carlos MARTE, export manager, Eagle Incorporated, 800 N.W. 2nd Avenue was interviewed regarding SUBJECT as a developed reference. The informant stated that he has been acquainted with SUBJECT since 1961 on a professional basis. During that time he has never noted anything of an unfavorable nature regarding SUBJECT's character, morality or sobriety. He is a hard working and conscientious individual and is diligent and reliable. He last worked for the company for approximately six months in 1964 and 1965 and left in March 1965 to take a flying job at some unknown location. The informant stated that he has never heard anything to indicate that SUBJECT had any Communistic tendencies whatsoever, and he believed that SUBJECT was favorably disposed towards the United States.

At Hialeah, Florida

On 22 June 1965 Mrs. Marie RODRIGUEZ, 1260 West 60th Terrace, was interviewed regarding SUBJECT as a developed reference. The informant stated that SUBJECT

--- Page 14 ---

SECRET
File 242 369

and his family resided next door to her for two years from 1962 to 1964. She found SUBJECT to be happily married and stated that he was a decent and clean living person. He was formerly a pilot in Cuba, but had to flee Cuba because of the CASTRO regime. The informant believed that SUBJECT was favorably disposed towards the States government. She added that she could offer no criticism of his personal conduct, morality or sobriety. She added that all of her associations with SUBJECT have been satisfactory.

On 22 June 1965 Mrs. Mary DIENER, 1280 West 60th Terrace, was interviewed regarding SUBJECT as a developed reference. The Informant stated that she lived next door to SUBJECT and his family for two years and found them to be good neighbors. They were Cuban refugees who fled Cuba because of the CASTRO regime. SUBJECT was a pilot in Cuba, but could not find work flying here in the United States. As a consequence he worked for a firm on the docks in downtown Hialeah. SUBJECT's reputation in the community was good, and the informant believed that he was a respectable gentleman. She stated that she believed SUBJECT was appreciative of being able to live in the United States, and she never heard him criticize our form of government.

CREDIT:
At Miami, Florida

On 10 June 1965 records of the Credit Bureau of Miami were reviewed in the names of SUBJECT and his spouse and no record was found.

POLICE:
These films cover Hialeah, Florida.
At Miami, Florida

On 10 June 1965 records of the Dade County Public Safety Department and the Miami Police Department were reviewed in the names of SUBJECT and his spouse and no record was found.

At Hialeah, Florida

--- Page 15 ---

SECRET
File #242 369

On 10 June 1965 records of the Hialeah Police Department were reviewed in the names of SUBJECT and his spouse and no record was found.

--- Page 16 ---

INSTRUCTION SHEET
SECRET

DATE: 8 July 1965
294.544

SET UP FOR POA
INDICES
SPECIAL INQUIRY
FOR OA USE

COVERT NAME CHECK
AREA
ISSUE OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
REQUEST GREEN LIST
REQUEST RESULTS FI/D DOSSIER REVIEW
ISSUE PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
EXTEND POA FOR DAYS UNTIL
REINSTATE POA FOR DAYS UNTIL
FORWARD ATTACHMENT TO DIVISION

REVIEW COLLATERAL INFORMATION
REQUEST RESULTS TECHNICAL INTERROGATION FROM
REVIEW SECURITY OFFICE REPORT AT CI/OA
REVIEW SECURITY OFFICE CONCURRENT MEMO AT CI/OA
REVIEW FOI REPORT AT CI/OA
REQUEST REVIEW OF ATTACHED REFERENCES
ADVISE CH OF NATURE AND SIGNIFICANCE

REQUEST OPERATIONAL AND DIVISION TRACES
REQUEST FIELD TRACES
REQUEST
POA EXPIRED

PLEASE SUBMIT PRQ
IF WITHIN 30 DAYS, NO FURTHER INTEREST IN SUBJECT HAS BEEN INDICATED, POA WILL BE AUTOMATICALLY CANCELLED.
FAILURE TO SUBMIT AS REQUIRED UNDER CST NO. 10-5 OR TO INDICATE ANY FURTHER INTEREST IN OBTAINING APPROVAL FOR THE OPERATIONAL USE OF SUBJECT.

This case was discussed with thy. Brown/C/CI/CA
Ball also conferred with J. Scanlon/SOD/Sac. and F. Farrel/SOD/Case Officer/
It was determined that who reviewed the Eyes Only data and other information of record.
in view of the Subject already being in the Field on his second tour and the type of operation (PM) involved that the derogatory nature of the information would not preclude his continued use. SCU however is to forward a memorandum to this effect for CI/CA files.

--- Page 17 ---

14 Apr. 1965

SECRET
REQUEST FOR INVESTIGATION AND/OR NAME CHECK

TO: Deputy Director Security, IOS
FROM: Chief, CI/Operational Approval and Support Division
SUBJECT: 201-4544, 80#242369

USE OF SUBJECT: Pilot WITHRUSH
SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS: (Limitation on investigation: cover pretext, etc.)

CHECK RESULTS
(Date) 20 Apr. 1965
INDICES RESULTS
(Date)
CS TRACE RESULTS
REMARKS
GREEN LIST INITIATED

DIVISION: SOD/AB/OFS/3 Congo
CHECK & DEED OF (2010)

ENDORSEMENT:
DATE 6/25/65
FROM: Deputy Director Security, IOS
TO: Chief, CI/OA.
1. 06 Indices results: a cipon niteret 242367 Wi 39 OCT#68
2. Checks were conducted at the indicated Agencies with negative results:
☐ FBI ☐ ACSI ☐ CHI ☐ STATE ☐ CSC
3. Checks were conducted the employing Agencies with positive results, reports attached FB (pedal 7/21/15); &N, OS 1 (EyeONLY)
4. Domestic Field Investigation has been completed, reports attached.
5. Domestic Field Investigation favorable, reports will follow within 60 days.

--- Page 18 ---

FILE NO. 242.369
DATE 26 May 1965

SYNOPSIS

File at Immigration and Naturalization Service, Miami, Florida shows that one Antonio SOTO (Vazquez), who was born 20 August 1934 in Cuba, arrived in the United States at Daytona Beach, Florida on 1 January 1959 and he departed from the United States at Miami, Florida for the Dominican Republic on 20 June 1959. He again arrived in the United States at San Juan, P.R. on 18 August 1959, using name and passport of one Orlando Pedro RODRIGUEZ (Alvarez), which he explained by saying he could not get visa in own name due to service in Cuban Air Force during BATISTA regime. A foreign departure from Miami, Florida to Guatemala was verified 8 September 1959. Father of SUBJECT said to be in jail in Cuba in 1959 for participating in attempted invasion of Cuba. SUBJECT arrived in the United States at Miami, Florida 11 January 1951; his foreign departure from Miami, Florida was verified 25 February 1961 and he again arrived in the United States at Miami, Florida 24 May 1961. SUBJECT was granted Re-Entry Permit in October 1963 for travel to Republic of Congo. Background data set forth

--- Page 19 ---

File #242 369

GENERAL:
At Miami, Florida

The records in the District Office, Immigration and Naturalization Service, 51 S. W. First Avenue, which were checked on 19 and 24 May 1965, were found to contain file # A-11 263 189 pertaining to one Antonio SOTO (Vazquez), AKA, Orlando Pedro RODRIGUEZ (Alvarez), who arrived in the United States at Daytona Beach, Florida on 1 January 1959 in a Cuban Army airplane. He was said to have been born on 20 August 1934 at Havana, Cuba; to be the son of Antonio SOTO (Rodriguez) and Julia Rosa VAZQUEZ (Acosta) and to have resided in January-February 1959 at 1409 South Ridgewood Avenue and at 129 North Halifax Avenue, both Daytona Beach, Florida. In February 1959, his address was given as 35 N. E. 68th Street, Miami, Florida and his foreign departure from Miami, Florida to the Dominican Republic was verified on 20 June 1959.

SOTO again arrived in the United States at San Juan, Puerto Rico on 18 August 1959, at which time he presented Cuban passport #02042 in the name of Orlando Pedro RODRIGUEZ (Alvarez). Upon interrogation under oath by Immigration and Naturalization Service at Miami, Florida on 18 September 1959, SOTO admitted his identity as Antonio SOTO (Vazquez); stated that he could not get a visa in his own name in Cuba because he had been in the BATISTA government as a Captain in the Cuban Air Force and that he would refuse to tell how he obtained the passport in the name of Orlando Pedro RODRIGUEZ (Alvarez). He said that he came to the United States to try to help his father who was then in jail in Cuba. He identified his wife as Dolores Inocenta BECERRA (Garcia) and gave their address as 6711 N. W. 2nd Court, Miami, Florida. He was represented, for Immigration purposes, by Attorney Halph H. AGUILERA, CO Dupont Plaza Center, Miami, Florida.

A notation in the file in August 1959 set forth that SUBJECT's father, Col. Antonio SOTO, "was the man who had recently piloted the invasion plane from Dominican Republic to Trinidad, Cuba", was shot in the fighting and was in a prison, hospital in Cuba.

The foreign departure of SUBJECT from Miami, Florida to Guatemala was verified on 28 September 1959, after he had been, ordered deported by the Immigration and Naturalization Service for fraudulent entry. In December 1959, his address

--- Page 20 ---

File #242 369

was given as 6th Avenue #1221, 8th Piso, P. O. Box 918, Guatemala City, Guatemala.

Antonio SOTO (Vazquez) again arrived in the United States at Miami, Florida on 11 January 1961. He reported that he had Social Security #265-64-6892; that he had a brother-in-law, Fidel RODRIGUEZ, 440 S. W. 5th Avenue, Miami, Florida and that he (SOTO) intended to reside at 5703 North Miami Avenue, Miami, Florida. His foreign departure was verified at Miami, Florida on 25 February 1951 and he again arrived in the United States at Miami, Florida on 24 May 1961. In August 1961, his address was 143 N. W. 39th Street, Miami, Florida.

On 18 October 1963, SUBJECT was granted a Re-Entry Permit by Immigration and Naturalization Service so that he could travel to the Republic of the Congo as an employee of Caribbean Aeromarine Company, P. O. Box 755, Miami, 48, Florida. He again arrived in the United States at New York, N. Y. on 4 May 1964 and in September 1964, his address was listed as 1270 West 60th Terrace, Hialeah, Florida.

In September 1964, the Immigration and Naturalization Service was advised by the U. S. Department of State, Washington, D. C. that SUBJECT had applied to the American Consulate, Toronto, Canada for an immigrant visa. The U. S. Department of State was advised by the Immigration and Naturalization Service on 1 October 1964 that SUBJECT appeared "to still be excludable".

Additional information concerning SUBJECT is said to possibly be contained in the files of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

The above records were also found to contain file # A-12 542 006 pertaining to one Dolores Inocenta BECERRA, who arrived in the United States at Miami, Florida on 15 October 1960 and who may be identical with the wife of SUBJECT. This person was said to have been born on 28 December 1939 at Havana, Cuba; to be married to one Antonic SOTO, 5703 North Miami Avenue, Miami, Florida and to have a brother, Sergio BECERRA, 147 N. W. 68th Street, Miami, Florida.

The above records were also found to contain file

--- Page 21 ---

File #242 369

A-11 881 502 pertaining to one Julia Rosa VAZQUEZ (Acosta), AKA, Edelma Marina SANCHEZ (Izquierdo), who may be identical with the mother of SUBJECT. This person was said to have been born on 16 April 1909 in Matanzas Province, Cuba; to have arrived in the United States at San Juan, Puerto Rico on 18 August 1959 with a Cuban passport issued to one Edelma Marina SANCHEZ (Izquierdo) and that she admitted this passport to be false insofar as she was concerned. In September 1959, her address was 65 N. W. 60th Street, Miami, Florida and her foreign departure from Miami, Florida for Cuba was verified on 2 October 1959. She again arrived in the United States at Miami, Florida on 5 October 1960 and gave her address as c/o her daughter, Cecina SOTO, 4413 N. W. 9th Street, Miami, Florida.

--- Page 22 ---

FILE NO. 242 369
DATE: 17 June 1965

SYNOPSIS

Developed reference in 100 block North Halifax Avenue, Daytona Beach, Florida, advised that the reported former residence of Antonio SOTO (VAZQUEZ) was owned and occupied by Cuban General BATISTA at the time. Informant advised neither she nor others in area would have any knowledge of SUBJECT. Inquiries in 1400 block South Ridgewood Avenue unproductive, incorrect address furnished. Credit and police, no record.

REPORT NO.

--- Page 23 ---

#242 369

REFERENCES
At: Daytona Beach, Florida:

On 11 June 1965, observations revealed that the dwelling at 129 North Halifax Avenue, reportedly the residence of Antonio SOTO (VAZQUEZ) in early 1959, is presently vacant. The building contains a nameplate in the name of St. Demetrios Greek Orthodox Parish.

On 11 June 1965, Mrs. Clayton HARSPER, developed informant at 120 North Halifax Avenue, advised that the dwelling at 129 North Halifax Avenue was owned for many years by former Cuban General BATISTA. During the period in question, BATISTA, family friends, and staff, totaling approximately thirty people, occupied the dwelling. Many individuals of Cuban extraction came and went during the late 1950s, and Mrs. HARSPER stated that neither she nor other present residents of this area would have any knowledge of the SUBJECT. The Cubans kept to themselves and never mingled with the local citizenry.

Mrs. HARSPER added that BATISTA sold the property about a year ago to a church group, but the building is presently unoccupied.

On 11 June 1965, observations in the 1400 block of South Ridgewood Avenue revealed that there is no 1409 South Ridgewood. A Mrs. SHAROG, owner of the Parkway Motel at 1369; and Edward SUMMERS, Amble Oil Station, 1480 South Ridgewood Avenue, both stated that there has never been a 1409 South Ridgewood Avenue. The informants advised that several motels in the area have all undergone several ownership changes over the past five or six years, and the informants know of no one in the area who would be in a position to recall the SUBJECT.

CREDIT
At Daytona Beach, Florida:

On 11 June 1965, the files of the Daytona Beach Credit Bureau were searched in the name of SUBJECT, no record.

--- Page 24 ---

#242 369

POLICE (CRIMINAL, TRAFFIC, AND SUBVERSIVE).
At Daytona Beach, Florida:

On 11 June 1965, the files of the Daytona Beach Police Department were searched in the name of SUBJECT, no record.

--- Page 25 ---

SOTO (VAZQUEZ), Antonio
242.369
4 June 1965

On 27 May 1965, the files of the Immigration and Naturalization Service were searched in the name of SOTO (VAZQUEZ, Antonio, born 20 August 1934, Cuba.

The only information available at the Central Office relating to SUBJECT were 1-4 forms, copies of which are attached.

--- Page 26 ---

Name in Cort)
(First) (middle)
SOTO VAZQUEZ, Antonio
(DNR) to Rodrigues y Alvarez, Orlando B.
(A 11 882 397).
A 11 263 169.

Paroles
Country
• Dole of furth
Cubs
JAO Fla.
01'
CATION
P.CQ
Date
1.c.a
(Math)
08
tany
(10-11)
(۲۰)
34_
11:38
Date
MIA
3-25-60 J
CORRECTED INDEX CARD
35101353
ORIGINAL
INDER CARD
Name (Lest, CAPS)
(Fire!)
Vasos, Antonio
Smdi
And
1895 2nd Avenuo
(Put)
iCkimi
Born (Cuvary)
Caba
(Mo.)
(Day)
(Tear)
1934
Name of Spanion
Type of Act o
Cal
ision)
A-27:1, 55, 38.
{Cor)
(Year)
(action)
(Ford Conn
Ho subvery lito; stura in house
(Court No.)
(Court Location)
investigated