104-10076-10371

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FROM: DIRECTOR

WAVE 43

SECRET

ACTION AS 8

INFO: the, OOP, SOD 6, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CI/OPS, CI 2, AD/NE, AD/RR, Th, SR 7, WH 7, DD/1, ET 1200282

INFO LANT PACY BARR CITE WAVE 8923

INTEL TYPICA

SUPDATA: 30 NOV 63

TDCS 78723

12 DEC 420Z 63 IN

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

AML ISP-1 IN SW MSG 317 DTD 10 NOV RECD FROM TRANSLATION

INFORMANTS ARE AUDIL TO HERRERA) SURGIDERO DE BATABANO REGIDENT AND FORMER WHOLESALE FRUIT VENDOR. RESIDENT OF FINCA ALGOBIN, BATABANO.

AND EDILIO (GOMEZ) BAT BOTH WERE RECRUITED BY (FNU) DE LA TORRE FULL IDEN NOT ESTABLISHED. FIELD COMMENTS ARE FROM AMSUM-4 MONITORING OF CUT RID NO INDEX FILED 12/028Z

REPORT CLASS SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY: CUBA

SUBJ: TRAVEL OF SOVIETS FROM BATABANO TO ISLA DE PINOS. CARGO TRAFFIC BETWEEN ISLA DE PINOS AND BATABANO

COMMENT: SINATION OF THE ATTAC STION OF THIS CABLE DENTY 7 THE ACTION UBIT. RELEASING BASED ON

PRECEDENCE: ROUTINE

PRIORITY:

DATE DIST

14-00000

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

JULJECT:

SECRET

SSIRCATION –– DISSEMINATION CONTR

REPORT NO: TDCS 78723

DATE DISTR

PRECEDENCE:

REFERENCES: IN 78723

DATE OF INFO:

DATE ACQ:

FIELD REPORT NO:

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE: ON 6 NOVEMBER 1963, AT ABOUT 6:00 P.M., TWO TRUCKS, NOT OF U.S. MANUFACTURE, TRANSPORTING A TOTAL OF 24 MEN, WHO APPEARED TO BE SOVIETS ARRIVED IN BATABANO HABANA PROVINCE THE MEN WERE WELL-GROOMED, WORE CLEAN CLOTHES AND WERE CARRYING SUITCASES AND BUNDLES AT MIDNIGHT THESE INDIVIDUALS BOARDED THE FERRY SAILING FOR ISLA DE PINOS. (FIELD COMMENT: A USALLY RELIABLE SOURCE REPORTED THAT THE ISLA DE TESORO THE REGULAR FERRY TO ISLA DE PINOS DEPARTED FROM BATABANO FOR GERONA ISLA DE PINOS, ON THE NIGHT OF 6 NOVEMBER.)

2. ON 31 OCTOBER AT ABOUT 15:07 P.M., TWO OLIVE GREEN TRAILER

SECRET

RATE/ING DIA | RAISE ICE SECDEF NIC AIDE USTAR MOET Mont

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

14-00000

SECRET

TDCS 78723

TRUCKS HAULING BOXES ARRIVED AT THE PORT OF BATABANO FROM ISLA DE PINOS.

3. ON 28 OCTOBER AT ABOUT 3:06 P.M., TWO OLIVE GREEN TEN-WHEELED TRUCKS DRIVEN BY MILITIAMEN ARRIVED IN BATABANO AND WERE SHIPPED ABOARD THE ISLA DE PINOS FERRY WHICH LEFT THE SLIP AT 4.00 P.M. THE TRUCKS HAD AN ENCLOSED METAL BODY WITH SMALL SIDE WINDOWS AND EACH TRUCK PULLED A FOUR-WHEELED TRAILER. (FIELD COMMENT A USUALLY RELIABLE SOURCE REPORTED THAT ON 28 OCTOBER ZIL TRUCKS WERE ON BOARD THE ISLA DE TESORO FERRY WHICH SAILED FOR GERONA.)

FIELD DISSEM, CINCSO, CINCLANT, COMNAVKEYWEST.

SECRET

END OF MESSAGE
