14-00000
104-10161-10091 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |
7-71 MFG 2/76

CABLE SEC DISSEM AS PER. TOTAL COPIES RUN BY
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED. SECRET
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT ACTION #

T 651930 EIA932 PAGE 01 IN 206462
TOR: 041930Z MAR 77 [CARA] 32414
SECRET 041555Z MAR 77 STAFF
CITE [CARACAS] 32414

TO: DIRECTOR
WNINTEL RYBAT
REF: [CARACAS] 32384 (IN 203537)

1. ON 3 MARCH CHARGE (DCM) TALKED "INFORMALLY" TO FOREIGN
MINISTER ESCOVAR SALOM, INFORMATION MINISTER DIEGO ARRIA, AND
PRESIDENTIAL CONFIDANT AND UNOFFICIAL PRESS ADVISOR EUGENIO SOLER.
TO ALL THREE CHARGE MADE SAME TWO BASIC POINTS WITH THOUGHT THESE
WOULD BE RELAYED TO PRESIDENT PEREZ: (1) VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT
HAD MISREAD NEW YORK TIMES STORY; HAD ATTRIBUTED TO DAVID PHILLIPS
STATEMENTS APPARENTLY MADE BY OTHERS; HAD OVER-REACTED TO
WHAT SEEMED TO BE AN EFFORT ON PHILLIPS' PART TO BE HELPFUL; AND
(2) THE USG WAS STANDING PAT ON THE PRESIDENT'S LETTER. NO ONE ELSE
WAS SPEAKING, COULD OR WOULD SPEAK FURTHER FOR THE USG ON THIS SUBJECT.
AS FAR AS THE U.S. WAS CONCERNED, ISSUE WAS CLOSED AND WE HOPED
GOV WOULD SEE IT THE SAME WAY. RETURN TO CIA

Background Use On

2. DURING 3 AND EARLY 4 MARCH IT APPEARS THAT THE CHARGE'S Do Not Reproduce
EFFORTS AND TRADITIONALLY SHORT LATIN AMERICAN ATTENTION SPAN
HAVE COMBINED TO GREATLY EASE CRISIS SITUATION OF LAST WEEK, AT

SECRET

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000
7-71 MFC, 2/76

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY PER. TOTAL COPIES RUN BY
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED. SECRET
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT ACTION #

T 651930 EIA932 PAGE 02 IN 206462
TOR: 041930Z MAR 77 [CARA] 32414

LEAST AS FAR AS GOV IS CONCERNED. CAP AND GOVERNMENT SPOKESMEN
HAVE ALL STATED THAT INCIDENT HAS ENDED AND ARE NOW TRYING TO
DIVERT ATTENTION TO OTHER SUBJECTS. MEDIA COVERAGE IS RETURNING
TO NORMAL WITH STORIES OUT OF HEADLINES AND BACK ON PAGE SIX OR
EIGHT, SUPERSEDED BY NIEHOUS CASE, UGANDAN SITUATION, OPEC PRICE
HIKE, ETC. UNFORTUNATELY, EVERY VENEZUELAN WEEKLY MAGAZINE HAS
LONG ARTICLE (S) ON CIA WHICH ARE, OF COURSE, DEFAMATORY, AND
TEND TO WHIP UP PUBLIC ANTIPATHY TOWARDS AGENCY. THEN TOO, THERE
IS STILL MATTER OF DEMONSTRATION AGAINST CIA WHICH TWO DAYS AGO
CAP SEEMED TO BE INSTIGATING IN TWO MEETINGS WITH JOSE VICENTE
RANGEL AND POMPEYO MARQUEZ OF MAS AND JESUS
FARIA OF THE PCV. NEVERTHELESS, ON THE WHOLE, THE INTEREST
IN THIS ISSUE SEEMS TO BE DROPPING OFF AND DYING OUT RATHER
RAPIDLY.

3. LIAISONS WITH DIM AND DISIP CONTINUE AS BEFORE--IF
ANYTHING, ODDLY WE ARE GETTING A LITTLE MORE OUT OF THESE
ASSOCIATIONS THAN BEFORE THE FLAP. AMBASSADOR'S INSTRUCTIONS ON
LIAISON BEFORE HE LEFT ON CONSULTATION VISIT WERE "BUSINESS AS
USUAL AND LET THEM MAKE FIRST BREAK IF THEY WANT TO". IT WAS
AMBASSADOR'S OPINION THAT WHILE CAP WAS BLASTING CIA PUBLICLY HE
SECRET

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000
7-71-MFG 2/76

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY PER. TOTAL COPIES RUN BY
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED. SECRET
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT ACTION #

T 651930 EIA932 PAGE 03 IN 206462
TOR: 041930Z MAR 77 [CARA] 32414

[WOULD NOT WANT TO SEVER ALL TIES] ALTHOUGH AMBASSADOR, STILL
SOMETHING OF A POLLYANNA AT SUCH TIMES, SERIOUSLY UNDERESTIMATED
CAP'S INTENTION TO [PNG TWO OF US] AN ACTION WHICH CAME WITHIN
ONE HOUR OF OCCURING. ANYWAY, THROUGHOUT ALL OF THIS [BOTH DIM
AND DISIP] HAVE CONTINUED THEIR CONTACTS AND HAVE TRIED TO BE AS
FRIENDLY AND UNDERSTANDING, PERHAPS EVEN [COVERTLY] HELPFUL, AS
SITUATION WOULD ALLOW. TYPICAL OF [LIAISON] ATTITUDE IS (DIM, COLONEL
CATALAN'S) CONVERSATION WITH CRYMM DURING PEAK OF CRISIS.
HAVING DISCUSSED A VARIETY OF TOPICS OF [COMMON OPS] INTEREST,
[CATALAN] ASKED CRYMM, "WELL OTHERWISE, HOW ARE THINGS GOING?"
CRYMM REPLIED, "YOU SHOULD KNOW THE ANSWER TO THAT", TO WHICH
[CATALAN] SAID, SOMEWHAT GLUMLY, "YET, I SUPPOSE SO".

4. WE SHOULD NOT FOOL OURSELVES IN THINKING THAT THE WORLD
HERE IS NOT DIFFERENT, HOWEVER. WKSCARLET-9 COVERTLY REPORTED
THAT DISIP HAS DEFINITELY TAPPED AT LEAST COS'S HOME PHONE,
LIAISON OFFICER'S OFFICE LINE, AND TELEPHONES OF EX-COS LABANOW
AND JOE MANN, LOCAL NEW YORK TIMES REPRESENTATIVE. CAP HIMSELF
INSTRUCTED DISIP DIRECTOR TO GO OUT AND GET CIA AND INDICATED TO
AMBASSADOR HE WAS HAVING SECURITY SERVICES LOOK INTO CIA
CONTACT IN VENEZUELA, PARTICULARLY THOSE WITH JOURNALISTS. TWICE
SECRET

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000
7-71FG. 2/76

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY PER. TOTAL COPIES RUN BY
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED. SECRET
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT ACTION #

T 651930 EIA932 PAGE 04 IN 206462
TOR: 041930Z MAR 77 [CARA] 32414

IN LAST COUPLE OF DAYS STATION CASE OFFICERS HAVE ENCOUNTERED
WHAT CERTAINLY APPEARED TO BE SURVEILLANCES. WKIDET-3 REPORTS
THAT LAST WEEK CUBAN AMBASSADOR HERNANDEZ VISITED CAP AND PROVIDED
HIM A LIST OF ALL CIA PERSONNEL AND AGENTS THE CUBANS KNOW TO
BE OPERATING IN VENEZUELA. SO, AS CAN BE SEEN BY ALL OF THIS,
THE RELATIVELY EASY OPERATING CONDITIONS OF THE RECENT PAST NO
LONGER PERTAIN- PERHAPS THEY NEVER WILL AGAIN- AND WHILE WE ARE
NOT BECOMING PARANOID NOR WILL WE BE UNDULY SPOOKED, WE HAVE
ADJUSTED TO THE NEW AMBIENTE AND ARE NOW BEING MUCH MORE
CONSERVATIVE AND CAUTIOUS IN OUR ACTIVITIES THAN BEFORE.

5. NO FILE. E2, IMPDET.

SECRET
