14-0000
104-10121-10366 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OR INVESTIGATIVE ACTION
(Always handcarry 1 copy of this form)
DATE: 7 October 1959

TO: CI/Operational Approval and Support Division
X Security Support Division/Office of Security

FROM: NE/2/Jordan

SUBJECT: Robert A. Maheu
(True name)

PROJECT: 1205 I x3203

CI/OA FILE NO.
RI 201 FILE NO.
SO FILE NO.

TYPE ACTION REQUESTED:
[ ] PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
[ ] PROVISIONAL PROPRIETARY APPROVAL
[ ] OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
[ ] PROVISIONAL COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL
[ ] COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL
[ ] PROPRIETARY APPROVAL
[ ] COVERT NAME CHECK
[ ] SPECIAL INQUIRY (SO field investigation)
[ ] COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL FOR LIAISON WITH U.S. OFFICIALS

USE OF INDIVIDUAL OR ACTION REQUESTED:
SPECIFIC AREA OF USE: U.S. and Jordan
FULL DETAILS OF USE: May be employed by the King of Jordan to handle Jordanian public relations in the U. S.

CRYPTONYM, PSEUDONYM, AKA OR ALIASES:

INVESTIGATIVE COVER:
IS OR WILL SUBJECT BE AWARE OF U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST IN HIM? [X] YES [ ] NO
IS OR WILL SUBJECT BE AWARE OF CIA INTEREST IN HIM? [X] YES [ ] NO

INDICATE SPECIAL LIMITATIONS OR COVERAGE DESIRED IN THE SECURITY OFFICE INVESTIGATION:
Per discussion with Mr. J. O'Connell, sufficient Security Office investigation has already taken place.

IF NO INVESTIGATION OUTSIDE CIA, EXPLAIN FULLY:

PRO AND GREEN LIST STATUS Available at OS
[ ] PRQ 1 OR EQUIVALENT. IN (2) COPIES ATTACHED [ ] PRQ I WILL BE FORWARDED
[ ] PRQ 11. OR EQUIVALENT. IN (1) COPY ATTACHED [ ] GREEN LIST ATTACHED. NO:

FIELD TRACES:
[ ] NO RECORD [X] NON-DEROGATORY
[ ] DEROGATORY INFORMATION ATTACHED. WITH EVALUATION [ ] NOT INITIATED (Explanation) has not been in area
[ ] WILL BE FORWARDED

RI TRACES (Derogatory Information and Evaluation Attached) [ ] NO RECORD [X] NON-DEROGATORY [ ] DEROGATORY
DIVISION TRACES (Derogatory Information and Evaluation Attached) [ ] NO RECORD [X] NON-DEROGATORY [ ] DEROGATORY

SIGNATURE OF CASE OFFICER: James E. Burkart

EXTENSION: 3203 SIGNATURE OF BRANCH CHIEF: William R. Freeman

SECRET
