```markdown
14-00000

104-10221-10003
[2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FILL TITLE/NUM:
Victor Rico Galan Vol I

HOUSE:
261-336474

INCLUSIVE DATES: 4 Oct 1962 - 22 Dec 1964
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:
POW: 305?

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

14-00000
2731
SECRET
Other Agency
2
Do Enc
261-32 t G 7 qf
VOL I
3627
PEEL OFF LABEL AND REUSE ENVELOPE

14-00000

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
PROCESSING ACTION: XXXXXX
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING

FROM: Chief of Station, Guatemala City
SUBJECT: Tapes Confiscated by the COG Military
ACTION REQUIRED: FYI
REFERENCES: GUAT-4336

1. GENERAL
Transmitted herewith please find copies of three tapes confiscated
by the COG military from the guerrillas in operations subsequent to the
guerrilla attack on the small garrison at Panzos (GUAT-4309, paragraph 4).
The tapes were received by the Station from ODIBEX in mid-November. The
Station made copies to pass to the Guatemalan Army and to ODIEXX and kept one
copy for study. The originals were returned to the Guatemalan Army after
a master copy was made.

2. THE TAPES
The original tapes were small and were eight in number and were
recorded by the guerrillas at the speed of 1 and 7/8ths. According to
information taken from the tapes, the recording was done on a Philips recorder.
Judging from the sounds it is felt that the tapes were made indoors by inex-
perienced personnel. This belief is supported by one of the documents captured
which went into detail on the problems the guerrillas were having with the
recorder and on how to correct them. The master copy made by the Station
(transmitted herewith) was recorded at the same speed on three tapes which
total about 16 hours of poor listening.

Attachment:
Tapes, h/v
Distribution:
3 - Hqs, w/att, h/v
2 - File

CROSS REFERENCE TO
(CONTINUED)
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
HOMA-7617

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
22 December 1964
HQS FILE NUMBER: 25-2-3

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: HOMA-7617

3. INFORMATION FROM TAPES

A. Tape 1 side 1. A speech made by Victor Rico Galan (Mexican
newspaper man who is very leftist) to guerrillas under the command of Marco
Antonio Yon Sosa. Generally, he informs the guerrillas that the revolution
in Guatemala is the revolution of Latin America. He reports that persons
in Latin America and Europe are keenly interested in the Guatemalan revolu-
tion and send letters to Galan affirming their support of it. He then goes
into the problems of the apparent split between the 13 November Movement and
the PGT leadership. He states that the PGT has not given the guerrillas the
proper support and has taken too soft a line in the revolutionary struggle. He
talked to the PUR leadership and asked that personal feelings be set aside and
suggested complete cooperation with the guerrillas to overthrow the present
government. At the end of the tape the guerrilla theme song is sung by a group
of guerrillas.

B. Tape 1 side 2. This side discusses (voice unidentified) the inter-
view Yon Sosa had with newspapermen in the Sierra de las Minas. The speaker
explains how the interview was disseminated throughout Guatemala by Supplement
1 of the Revolucion Socialista. The interview will soon be translated into
German, French and other languages and will be sent to Mexico, Latin America
and countries in Europe. The speaker then goes on to explain how the guerrilla
publication, Revolucion Socialista, has created great enthusiasm (does not say
where) and how it will make people aware of the role the guerrillas play in
Guatemala. Its main object is to attack imperialism and the Guatemalan Gover-
ment.

C. Tape 2 side 1. This side deals with generalities on the revolu-
tion going on in Guatemala. It discusses the need for a new government to
represent the people. It states that the guerrilla movement is the vanguard
of the masses of workers and campesinos. At the end of the tape it salutes
the workers of the world.

D. Tape 2 side 2. An unidentified voice discusses, in very general
terms, the problems of the guerrillas in shipping various articles (weapons,
literature and tapes) to different parts of the country. The major obstacles
to smooth movements of the articles throughout the country are police and mili-
tary check points on the major roads and the fact that large truck shipments
cannot be mounted, forcing the guerrillas to hand carry most of the material.
Through negligence, many guerrillas have been captured with compromising material
in their possession. Pseudonyms are repeatedly mentioned on this side - Rolando,
Rudy, Dan, and Mateo - which cannot be identified by the Station.

E. Tape 3 side 1. This side is taken up by an unidentified person
reading passages out of Revolucion Socialista and Marxist literature.

F. Tape 3 side 2. On this side there are discussions of the problems
faced by the guerrillas. The first problem is the trouble the Mando General
was having with the Guatemalan Communist Party (the Party tended to isolate
itself from the guerrillas). Other problems included communications between
guerrilla units throughout the country; problems with the recording machine;
and the problem of putting out propaganda which can be understood by the
campesinos. All these problems were discussed in very general terms omitting
places and dates.

4. LESSONS DRAWN FROM TAPES
The information found on the tapes is of no operational value to the
Station since it deals with propaganda and guerrilla problems already known by
the Station. What is of interest is the apparent effort by the guerrilla
leadership to use tapes as a means of operational communications and to reach
the illiterate campesinos and workers with spoken instead of written propaganda.
The operational use of tapes would obviate the need for printed internal commu-
niques which are easily and exactly compromised. A guerrilla can hide a tape on
his person and travel through police and military check points without being
detected. Since the people the guerrillas are interested in are for the
most part illiterate (campesinos and workers) the spoken word would mean much

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: HOMA-7617

more to them than would printed propaganda. The Station has not based these
conclusions solely on the three tapes transmitted with this report. Two
days ago, PEDEN-1 informed DOSCHER that the police recently confiscated 24
tapes from the guerrillas (made on 8 and 9 December, HOGA-7612) and that
these tapes consist of operational problems faced by the guerrilla leadership
and propaganda. The Station will attempt to make copies of the tapes mentioned
by PEDEN-1 if they can be obtained. If the tapes cannot be acquired the
Station will receive copies of the scripts taken from the tapes (police are
doing this now).

5. Since the tapes are not of operational value the Station feels it
is not necessary to retain a copy for the files and is passing to Headquarters
the master copy from which reproductions were made for ODIBEX and the Guatemala
Government.

Kenneth A. Inwood

14-00000

DISPATCH

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City
INFO: Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

SUBJECT: FNLS - Conference Given by Victor RICO Galan in Merida
ACTION REQUIRED: FII
REFERENCES: HM: 22501, 24 Jan. 64

1. Attached are copies of press coverage of a conference
given in Merida on 28 October 1964 by Victor RICO Galan, described
in reference as a Mexican Marxist journalist and CASTRO agent.
In summary, RICO reportedly sketched the Hispano-American situation
briefly and spent an hour or more replying to questions from the
audience; his theme there was North American imperialism.

2. It will be noted that RICO was invited by the Centro
de Renovacion Cultural and presented by Journalist Mario
Henriquez, who said only that one might or might not agree
with what RICO said but that he had a right to be heard. The
Centro is of very recent unknown origin. It is said to be spon-
soring the visit each week of a journalist to Merida for four
conferences. Where the money is secured from has not yet been
determined. CACI contacts have said that he himself
paid for RICO's air travel, and the hotel bill at the
Laman Tourist Agency was paid by the PARA Tourist Agency, not ever
A hotel contact has stated that the bill was told by the
"State Government". LIGA indicates the Havana in Merida,
Harian, GARCIA Perez, is in contact with Pobudkan and, when
in recalled the Careless nature of the 1962, there would seem to be more than
RICO's trip to Merida in 1962, there would seem to be more than
one possibility to the source of funds for the new
if the Centre plans are carried out as reported, and extended
might run as high as $1,000, a not inconsiderable sum.

3. MED 19 is a close ACID American contact and a personal
contact of CACI as well. A recent character-type member of
the Zilly complex that owns or operates the Jontas
Peninsula's principal daily newspaper, Diario de Yucatan. In 1962
he overloaded an expense account on a trip to Araria officials
terms with him and
of fraud, is said to be well in terms with him and
to have taken up with the extreme left.
Carries Patter file
Cross reference to
New Trend 1.

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: LA-57
DATE: 30 October 1964
HQS FILE NUMBER:

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: LA-57

in the purchase
of Latin American newspaper editors in
colly all the c
4 she was
fox, the b
lls int
Nity, cbled his wife's
the way cell
.05 chniq preet!.
about 20 August 19:4
Preference in textse.
1-0 (
jar the
lane end a
way seiner
a cost of
URE. A local Norrknell priest who commented on the case
last week esir that be feared herio bad che on ever Be the
other aldo".

4. Since Number 1 on the list of the
OLACI "Comin, Young Pen" rejim, the above information is
being forwarded or an interim basis until the return of the
local ACID chief, which is ex ected around 7 November.
At that time it is anticipated that he will try to get down
to the bottom of the matter, since be considers WHILE as
his contact. This dispatch is bein; forwarded with the
knowledge of the acting chief of the local ODACII, who can
tributed information to it.

5. The base has no record of sugesto MERK£ÃO Gsreiąg

Attachments:
3 newspaper clippin, s

Distribution:
2-rex! v/itte (1)
bal w/ats (1)
2-iles w/a (1)

Andrew P. MLHTCH

14-00000

Ancipe, or of Teata del Sogum Social
Visión de Hispanoamérica
CONFERENCIA DE VICTOR RICO BALAN
do por el Centre de Re complets, of is cual eractive
: attura SESSITOLIO
interesante consona
nada prevista destra pa
tra bo puse de moifiests
tema Visbe de Hispa tambres que a. Centre de Reno i
a alagado pevacion Cultural Leadra QCO
tor Rico Gaan La procurarse of local part ou
-profesionales actividades, donde no se ponga
ambre tatagun tropiezo. d. atro de la
prese, el pobre que ce ratere ley, a la libre manifestació di
problemas de mayor' th
pronta land cas literar Luego de una sintests expo-
mente cupo da sa sala delative de las condicions
Seguro Social
Después de breve presenta
el conferenciante por el
Mario Menéndca Rodrigues.
que advirte que se podia
estarono de acuerdo con
Sr Bico Galán. pero que
Centro defendia derecho do
todos a expresar sus opiniones
abremente la: diserta
con el intelectual visitante
. X 1
el
.: priva en Hispanoamérica
Sr. Rico Galan bay que lo
amplitud y diversidad del tema.
To harian inquible pare was
sels conferencia lo que
preferia desarrollario par me-
dio de preguntas y respuestas
Esta medalidad comanico ins
pechada rerie de matices |
velade, maxime que ei, intelec
itual visitante para enfocar me
jor los picos, recordó que la
merte y el trato que se dispen-
saba a Latinoamerica cambia
Mas que el desario de pron radialecte dade el mo
iación litoreria rectifice mesto mismo en que Fuel Cas
politica que o que propia tre rompe con el atelje da
mcato e entrada por cents 163 Estados Unido Entonces
rencia, la del Area Gaiba
MD
realiced
dialogs
ente tecundo, va
auditorio Lastima que tan Tu
Teresante conversacion se vie.
is motilada desde es principin,
1
Do* emplets & **morar de
diversos randas hasta con
Abaan para al Progre40"
* X *
pues coeli aditio. A patur de es debitación,
que gridocet articles practices pur ai
reginato de Teatro dei Seconfereactante. pisaca está
gure Social, en is need sempre es siempre sobre ei
se debatre el tempo de
ma de la politics mexicasa es let Estados Umdes como cause
candice 20 who is a pundamentaleradora de
seater une Anca Launa tedes sustras mais. Les pre-
por spontanoided
eran fornuis, propo-
a da han
o
que
Que
ales se ha co
Re Ga
en la tras
neront par u
p
14..
citata
reme
etro imperame, but ejemplo,
o de la Cat Sovica
Pero Comissen:
nidad i
hasia con la mama modest is
rrenad as ܽܠ ܬ .
comunes de charla S
Rico Cade migdogma
Uzar, que in salación de Hui
panoamerica no está en ma
aparta
Fatados
imperialismo de las
mados por medio dell
Uman bosetics |
o de la Francia del Gral De
Gaoile sino sprovechande is!
teligentemente todos aquellos
recurve o manobr que se
upongan uniten. o s
la influencia materal de Nor
teamerica en Hispanoamerica
Y desde luego comp
tice de autodeterminamos. como
to ha hecho es gobierno or Me-
zuco"
Hubo ur instante 4050 ล
atanen que re
iflujo de
char'a en que
el juego de las pregunte
respuestas par per
dad at me
23
en pure obscur
'e cuamin .61 in
puso sobre 10 20
el brute! some
Bi
pobre vita del imparable.
Pers al 3: Mic
Gaan de
verseted de
modestie que
ire desented condu
icle de nueve pati 9. ter
sou det mpers
100 yenu.
* tambien !
Ruzibar iz
!
Ce e s'
Artentina, en al Pare, on Va-j
A Conta P
an igidos 'c15
Antics 6 sangra (also p
las aplīsu as
: ppi bi Thi
de pruner>>
very basth - 24
P
Daneira
Nuna
005
!
concers 10-
28. penumita >
be medir
713.6319 ལ*
この
or
a su
conf
repite
*** (2
Keraja
ها
man ca
-
spea
el 3
fins
»
seep
1.5
Cate
a wh
*DUCIN
34
umo de
'
Vet
As g
M
-bay

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000
+
Suarie lat Sunniste
29008 64
tr
Taffy
e sad dates.
to the gear (ne pries
f
M.
phones relate
A
Feath
First, y
franti
& Gtà.
and H

--- Page 10 ---

14-00000
;
:
i
Tai dar fote
fati
24o7r64
Práxim Conferencia
del Periodista Victor
Rice Cass, en Mérida
Centre de Renovariée Oub]
tural ha estado ugunsde Inv
tariqnce pars is rec que
sobre al tema de His
pancaméra sustentarà el cos.
de periodico Co
Infrarot Segure
tal de
⚫ proxime
1 horas
Siriones las
tras Pro Marrero Carria▸
Mare Mintues Redig t
Brad spa
7
3. Cip

--- Page 11 ---

14-00000

PASAPORTE NUWEPO.
BRL
ULAR EN MENKO
DOMICILIO DEL TITULAR EN EL EXTRANJERG
53011
July 16 x
EN CASO DE MUERTE G ACCIDENTE NOTIFIQUESE 1:
PASAPORTE
EXPEDIDO A FAVUR UK
VICTOR RICO GALAN
OCMICILIO
A QUIEN ACOMANA BU ESPOSAL
箕
X
☑
ASTE PAG-MORTI OCDE HERENDARSE CADA D's
ANDS. LA IBRETA CROUCA A LOS SEIS AÑOS
_ _ MENORES
A?
10457
LATE PASAPORTS IN BR MASPADA'
CB TAS-LF. Sep *ULGAS DAS
CURATIO OU DES INTRALISATI
AI PASPATIOTAL
ANING SA
IS
BLRIENDS $60.00
23333
$.3. **

--- Page 12 ---

14-00000

MIK
INAPUNIDOS MENT ANDN 194
VICTOR RICO GALAN
_ ME NACIONALIDAD MEXICANA
() y sure he entidades es
sila, u miltures to los pande tramiten),
weissugun baie les presten ayuda
4 protect me on cow nex15
Dads or la salud de
9
Dus del mes
Estos pálido para úda
ESTADOS UNIDOS DE AMERICA, CANA—
CENTRO AND AMERICANA
APA FRANCIA ITALIA PORTUGAL E&
FALA CUCCIA DINAWCA ALEMANIA
QUIZA AUSTRIA, COMNI_012_CRITA-
NICA DE NACIONES,
LA VALIDEZ DE ESTE PASAPONTE EXPIRA EL
8 SEPTIEMAPE 1965
menus le que no refrenalinis por ks Sectaria de
Restones Exteriores » por alguna oluina Lyla.
muitua a consular de Méxxo en el extranjero,
OBSERVACIONES
SOPTION
☐
RESENTA
Y TREE
CESANGATES
WAG
orgado el 150 1949

--- Page 13 ---

14-00000
FILIACIONES
TITE
1.75 MTS
ESTATURA...
COLORL
CAFES
- FORD
PELO..
-EXTRECAND.
SEAS PARTICULARS.
LINGANA
UKAR DE NACIMIENTO.
FEREO!, CPAA!
●AGMA DE NACIMIENTO.
6 E 1933.
OCUPACION ERICITA
ESTAGO CIR
MUJOS MENORES
NOMAL
GOT7
K
1
ox 39
$150
FOTOGRAFIAO
་་་་་ པའtམ
" "
ra
**
PUS
VALD
684 IP36
ald A 13A Y

--- Page 14 ---

14-0000
VISAB
C GERAL DE COSTA RICA
COD F.. NEFICO
VISA DE TURISTA
Somes, Fore implorar a Conto co
v. Stati
140 08..
Acer of perta
:2
1863_
"
COMPITO BONA
N
1.
17%
"..
