14-00000
104-10105-10133 [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional) Manuscript Submitted by David A. Phillips
FROM: C/SS/SC
EXTENSION NO.
DATE
RETURN TO CH
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building) | OFFICER'S COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom INITIALS
to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)
1. Chief, EAB, Office of Security RECEIVED
FORWARDED
Attached are the comments
of Acting Chief, SOG,
regarding subject
manuscript. All three
comments fall within caveats
2) and 3) cited in your
Routing and Record Sheet.
H.R. Keough

FORM 610 SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL USE ONLY UNCLASSIFIED
3-62 USE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS

---

14-00000
2/pv
DRAFT 7 Jan 76
Chapter XI

Page 10: Though Camp Perry has received much publicity, there appears no good reason to confirm the use of this facility by the Agency. Unless we plan on officially opening Camp Perry as a CIA training facility, it should not be mentioned. (Check OTR)

Page 15: The "Phoenix Program" originated before William Colby became DEPCORDS, COMUSMACV. Ambassador Komer started the program and asked that Colby replace him as DEPCORDS so that there would be some continuity in the effort to deal with criminal elements of the Viet Cong infrastructure. It is unfair to subjectively state that the "Operation Phoenix" was Colby's own albatross. Certainly Colby doesn't believe this though he is receiving considerable flack from those who would like others to believe that the whole program was one of assassination of which Colby, as head of the CIA, was in charge.

Page 39: We're still putting audio devices in coke bottles -- all these techniques and methods should not be discussed since we may very well want to use them again in the future.
