4-00000
104-10188-10015

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

1. THIS DOCUMENT IS CH
2. RETURN THIS DOCUMENT TO:
TITEL ON ASSASSINATIONS TAPE LIBERS
RM GA-50, ON C-E/VOLPIE: KDAFGHAN
3. IF YOU FORWARD THIS FORM TO AN
INDIVIDUAL
SUPPORT
VOL. I.
50-6-122/2
25 SEPT 6-14 MAR 72
TOTAL UNIT/LOCATION:
ROOM:
DELETIONS, IF ANY:
PROJECT
KDAFGHAN
VOLUME I
SECTION
SUPPORT
SIGNATURE OF
REVIEWING OFFICIAL.

Dan Hardwary
Hardwary
Handway
DATE
RECEIVED RETURNED
REVIEWED BY
(PRINT NAME)
26 MAY 78 5/26/78/8A: HARDWAY.
5 July 78
21 JUL 1978
12/20/78
D. HARDWAY
HARDWAY
HARDWAY
NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.
13-701
RETIRED FILE
*/22/2
25.

---

14-00000
FORM 2-65
2593
CONFIDENTIAL
NOTICE
THIS FILE HAS BEEN PROCESSED AND RETIRED. DO NOT
ADD ANY DOCUMENTS TO THIS FOLDER. FORWARD CS
DOCUMENTS THAT SHOULD BE INCLUDED IN THIS FOLDER
TO RID/RPU GE-58.
NOTICE
CONFIDENTIAL
(7-13)

---

4-00000
FROM: (Headquarters component)
SECRET
(WHEN FILLED IN)
TO:
10. IP/AN
(Station/Base)
MEXICO CITY
SUBJECT AND PROJECT FILE REQUEST
AND FIELD NOTIFICATION OF ACTION
FROM: (Division)
WD
COMPLETE ITEMS 1 THROUGH 12
INFORMATION FOR REQUESTERS
ITEM 3-ALL FILE TITLES MUST BE STERILE SINCE THEY WILL
APPEAR ON THE FIELD COPIES AND ON MACHINE LISTS
ITEM 6 ALL REMARKS MUST BE STERILE.
ITEM 7 AND 8-USE FIRST THREE LETTERS OF DISPATCH SYM-
BOLS FOR FIELD STATIONS AND LIST HEADQUARTERS ELE-
MENTS ACCORDING TO ESTABLISHED NUMERIC CODES
ITEM 10-ENTER OLD TITLE WHEN AMENDING A TITLE. CITE
ANY FILES, SUCH AS 201 OR PROJECT FILES THAT ARE RE-
LATED TO THE FILE COVERED BY THIS REQUEST. ITEM 10 MAY
ALSO BE USED TO GIVE REASONS FOR THE ACTION BEING RE-
QUESTED. TO IDENTIFY THE TYPE OF MATERIAL TO BE PLACED
IN A FILE OR TO MAKE OTHER EXPLANATORY REMARKS.
ITEM 11-A RECORDS OFFICER MUST SIGN ALL FILE ACTION RE-
QUESTS. CONSULT YOUR RMO ON ANY PROBLEMS THAT ARISE
CONCERNING FILE
TYPE OF FILE
SUBJECT
PROJECT
INFORMATION CONCERNING FILE
COUNTRY
CODE (FILE) NUMBER
CATEGORY NUMBER
SPECIFIC SUBJECT NUMBER
MEXICO
50-6-122/2
3. FILE TITLE (SPECIFIC SUBJECT PROJECTS LIMITED TO 15 SPACES)
KDAFGHAN Support
4. ACTION REQUIRED
OPEN FILE
AMEND FILE TITLE
CLOSE FILE (INDICATE DISPOSITION)
ANALYSIS ACTION
5. DISPOSITION
RETAIN
DESTRUCTION RECOMMENDED
THRU (DATED: 12-74)
6. REMARKS (FOR FIELD DISTRIBUTION)
7. INTERESTED STATIONS (PROJECTS ONLY)
8. INTERESTED HEADQUARTERS DESK (LIST ACTION DESK FIRST)
50
FILES ACTION
HOLD IN
CS FILES
RESTRICTED
UNRESTRICTED
9. PREPARE FOLDER AND
SEND TO REQUESTER
CHARGE PERMANENTLY TO
OFFICER & DESK
10. COMMENTS (INCLUDE SPECIAL HEADQUARTERS ROUTING INSTRUCTIONS)
RID APPROVAL
REQUEST APPROVED BY
11. ENDORSEMENT
12. COORDINATION
SIGNATURE OF BRANCH/DESK R. O.
SIGNATURE OF BRANCH/DESK R. O.
(WHEN APPLICABLE)
13.
EFFECTIVE DATE
1 March 1973
RM 812
OBSOLETE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS
MFG 12-65
50-6-122/2
1-CS COPY

---

14-00000
KDAFGHAN
FORMER CRYPTONYM - LIONION
SECRET
CRYPTONYM CHANGE AUTHORIZED BY
ARMSTRONG
(RD OR RID SECTION CHIEF)
CABLE OR DOCUMENT REFERENCE (FROM ITEM 10 OF FORM 812).
DATE OF CRYPTONYM CHANGE
20/04/71
COMPONENT - PROVANT
HMMS-7138
NOTICE
THIS IS AN RID NOTICE OF A CHANGE IN FILE
TITLE CRYPTONYM CAUSED BY COMPROMISE. IT
IS TO BE PLACED IN THE FILE INDICATED AND
TO REMAIN THEREIN AS A PERMANENT OFFICIAL
CS RECORD.
FILE IN
050-006-122/02

---

14-00000
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
TOTAL COPIES: 5
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY:
GROUP 1
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
ACTION UNIT: JSD-800
ACTION NO: PE
FILE, VR: KONFGHAN
SECRET 141955Z MAR 72 CITE MEXICO CITY 19236
DIRTECH INFO PANTECH, DIRECTOR
AQUATIC KDAFGHAN KDFACTOR
REF A. HMMA-41502
B. PANTECH 18798 (5-59398)
1. PLS PROCURE TWO 1000 MM CATADIOPTRIC LENSES
WITH CAMERAS AS REQUESTED REF A.
2. FOR PANTECH: NOT NECESSARY PROCURE SPOTMATICS
UNLESS ADVISED DIFFERENTLY BY DIRTECH. GP-1.
SECRET

---

14-00000
ACTION REQUIRED
Chief, SPICE
Chief, WH Division; Chief, WOACHE
Chief of Station, Mexico City
QUICKDAFGHAN IDFACTOR
Front-of-Talopact-Losses
Reference: MEXICO CITY 15054
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
Two of the Station photographic locations, KDFACTOR and
have been using the hand
Bland
camera combination for approx. sixty trolling points. These two
operations provide valuable photographic coverage of five fallout
targets and new equipment is required to improve the photographic
quality and increase the capability for former coverage during the
day when light conditions are poor.
2. The Balscope in the KDAFGHAN-1 OP has a 15X eyepiece and
is located in a very small room. A full length large telephoto
lens of 1000 mm will not fit into the space without taking out a
concrete wall partition. Therefore a compact catadioptric lens
is required for the project.
3. The Balscope in the KDAFGHAN-2 OP should also be replaced
by the same type of lens system mentioned paragraph 2.
Balscope now in use is operated from the top of a table where
KDAFACTOR-2 must also stand to take pictures over a high wall in the
foreground. The system must be removed from the table when not in
use and stored in a locked foot locker. For these reasons the lens
and camera should be light and compact to facilitate their use and
storage.
4. As can be seen from paragraphs two and three a light weight
compact lens system is desired for both projects and the Station
Distribution:
2 - C/SPICE
2 - C/WH
2 - C/WOACHE
1-CS COPY
DATE: 13 January 1979
continued
50-6-122/2

---

14-00000
CONTINUATION OF
LIONION
anxious to replace the old outfits.
on the walls after the year
Balscope.
the operation
you with
A verbal bend to
1000 catadioptric option
Please use when
corting procedures. QRAM
one of these systems through
are
ling to
tai obtain
unit can be obtained and the
has started the action on at least
VICE.
Charles F. GIFTEN

---

14-00000
DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
INFO Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
Chief, MKSPICE
FROM
Chief of Station, Mexico City
SUBJECT AQUATIC/KDAFGHAN
Renewal of Passports for KDAFGHAN-1 and KDAFGHAN-2
ACTION REQUIRED. REFERENCES
Reference: HMMN-17955, 11 June 1970
PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
MICROFILM
The WOACRE-issued Cuban passports for Subjects have expired.
It is requested that new passports be prepared for them. According
to KDAFGHAN-1, the new passports should carry the same numbers as
the old passports. The passports, and current photographs of
Subjects, are being forwarded under separate cover. It is
requested that the old passports be returned.

Attachment:
As stated u/s/c
Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - Chief, WOACRE (w/att. u/s/c)
1 - Chief, WHD (w/o/att)
1 - Chief, MKSPICE (w/o/att)
1-CS Copy
Elsie I. SCALETTI
DATE: 7 January 1972
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
HMMA-41480
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
HQS FILE NUMBER
50-6-122/2
FFN: P-77097

---

14-00004
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOT TO
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
TOTAL COPIES
GROUP
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
ACTION UNIT: WHE
ACTION NO: 125
FILE. VR: ADMIN LOGS KDAFGHAN
SECRET 091856Z NOV 71 CITE MEXICO CITY 18173
DIRECTOR
ADMIN LOGS KDAFGHAN
9 Nov IN 465586
1. REQUEST OBTAIN AND POUCH TO STATION ON PRIORITY
BASIS FOR KDAFGHAN ONE EACH: APRON, CLOTH, F/W/W
PAKONOMY PRINT DRYER MODEL 13-S. N.-5932. MFR: PAKO
CORPORATION, MINNEAPOLIS 40, MINN.
2. REQN 559-19-72 APPLIES. GP-1
SECRET

---

14-0000
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED
SECRET
(When Filled in)
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
ACTION UNIT: TSD-00
ACTION NO.
FILE, VR: KDAFGHAN
SECRET 211720Z OCT CITE MEXICO CITY 18014 (ROSTEDT ACTING)
DIRTECH INFO DIRECTOR, PANTECH
AQUATIC/KDAFGHAN
1. KDAFGHAN-1 HAS FOR YEARS USED BALSCOPE LENS
WITH 20 X EYEPIECE FOR ID PHOTOGRAPHY OF VISITORS AND
EMPLOYEES ENTERING KDACOUSTIC. TO IMPROVE QUALITY
PHOTOGRAPHY AND INCREASE CAPABILITY DURING EVENING
HOURS WHEN LIGHTING POOR STATION PREFERS A PHOTOGRAPHICALLY
CORRECTED 1000 MM TELEPHOTE LENS FOR PROJECT. PLS ADVISE
AVAILABILITY OF ABOVE LENS FROM WOACRE STOCK. IF PROJECT
TO BE CHARGED FOR LENS NOTIFY STATION.
2. MKSPICE DOES NOT HAVE THIS TYPE LENS IN STOCK. GP-1.
SECRET

---

14-00000
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
ADVANCE COPY
SECRET
(When Filled In)
TOTAL COPIES
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY
ACTION UNIT: Nee/2973
FILE, VR: LIONION
SECRET 222053Z OCT 70 CITE MEXICO CITY 4653
DIRTECH INFO PANTECH, DIRECTOR
RYBAT AQUATIC
REF: DIRTECH 0131 (IN187977).
1. FOLLOWING IS A LIST OF EQUIPMENT USED IN PROJECTS
(ONE EACH OF ITEMS LISTED):
A. LILYRICS
TELESCOPE, BALSCOPE BAUSCH AND LOMB.;
CAMERA, SP, MM, EXAKTA W/O LENS;
CAMERA, PENTAX MDL H3V;
B. TELESCOPE, S-E, BAUSCH AND LOMB., BALSCOPE;
CAMERA, SP, 35 MM, EXAKTA, WO/LENS;
C. LIONION:
BINOCULARS, 10250, TASCO, JAP MDL;
TELESCOPE, BAUSCH AND LOMB BALSCOPE SR.;
CAMERA, PENTAX 35 MM;
DRIER, PHOTO PAKONOMY MDL 13.;
ENLARGER, LEITZ WETZLER FOCOMAT 1C;
MOTOROLA HANDIE-TALKIE FM RADIOPHONE;
SECRET

---

14-00000
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY
SECRET
(When Filled In)
ADVANCE COPY
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
ACTION UNIT: AT:
FILE, VR:
ACTION NO.
PAGE 2 MEXICO CITY 4653 SECRET
MOTOROLA RADIOPHONE;
CAMERA, RETINA;
LENS, RETINA 50MM;
LENS, RETINA 35MM;
LENS, RETNA 80MM.
50-6-3212.
FILE: PAYAEWXWN
SECRET

---

14-00000
DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
INFO
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
FROM
Acting Chief of Station, Mexico City,
MICROFILM
SUBJECT
Transmittal of Document Receipt for LIONION Passports
ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES
Reference: HMMA-17955, 11 June 1970
Forwarded under separate cover is the document receipt
for the LIONION passports.

for/Horace E. PRALLETT
Attachment:
document receipt (u/s/c)
DATE: 14 July 1970
Distribution:
Orig. and 2 - Chief, WHD (w/att, u/s/c)
CS COPY
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
HMMA-39115
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
DATE
26 June 1970
HQS FILE NUMBER
50-6-122/2

---

14-00000
CLASSIFICATION
PROCESSING ACTION
DISPATCH
SECRET
MARKED FOR INDEXING
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
INFO.
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
FROM
Chief of Station, Mexico City
MICROFILM
SUBJECT
PBRUMEN LIONTON TECHS/Request for Renewal of PBRUMEN Passports
for LIONION-1 and LIONION-2
ACTION REQUIRED. REFERENCES
Action Required: Renew passports and return
Reference: HMMW 13,672, 3 June 1965
1. Forwarded under separate cover in true name pouch are
the WOACRE PBRUMEN passports for LIONION-1 and LIONION-2, issued
by Reference. These passports have expired, and the Station
understands that they can be renewed for another period. Due to
the sensitivity of the LIONION operation, Subjects cannot obtain
regular PBRUMEN documentation locally, and must have them in order
to leave Mexico and return.
2. It is requested that WOACRE revalidate the passports
and return them to the Station for re-issuance to Subjects.

for/John A. PROBERT
DATE: 7 May 1970
Distribution:
Orig. and 2 - Chief, WHD
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
HMMA-38843
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
DATE
27 April 1970
HQS FILE NUMBER
50-6-122/2

---

14-00000
DISPATCH
SECRET
Chief of Station, Mexico City
Chief of Station, JMWAVE
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
SUBJECT
LIONION/Impulse Camera File
ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES
Action Required: See below
References:
A. HMMA-33841, 17 January 1963
B. UFGT-21267, 12 February 1968
C. UFGT-21342, 22 February 1968
PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
MICROFILM
1. In view of references A and B and the small cost involved
in operating the impulse camera Headquarters will continue to pro-
cess this film.
2. Request JMWAVE pouch the film cited in reference C to
Headquarters for processing.

Ronald L. PERRODIN
Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - COS, Mexico City
1 - COS, JMWAVE
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
HMMW-16194
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
OFFICE
WH/1
DATE: 1 March 1968
HQS FILE NUMBER
50-6-122/2
ORIGINATING
OFFICE SYMBOL
WH/COG
DATE
3/5/65
COORDINATING
OFFICER'S NAME
RELEASING
OFFICER'S NAME
W. J. Kaufman
OFFICE SYMBOL
DATE
CWH/1
1 Mar 68
DISPATCH

---

14-00000.
November, 1963, and
The Carn &
!dici
oded tha
AUDIT Report
results of the investigations.
or A GA *x
Salehouse lent in Axcess of Leage No
arrida
er
De
er
implication,
Recommendation:
Ea
appiosed of station on ober design
TO
Hen Ablevener Requires A
of Amounts Paid
di u retroactiv
Recommendation, Wa
_hfet &ysi
Pinance Records.
14.
jog postnad
Deguara mo
227 2
1
SECRET

---

14-00000
SECRET
Chief of Station, Mexico City
Attn: Walter W. CORNBURY
Chief of Station, Panama City
Chief, WOACRE
AQUATIC/LIONION
Technical Information
Reference: HMMA 31767 dated 11 April 1967
1. LIONION 1 photographic results continue to be satisfactory
for all concerned. It is therefore advisable that no changes in
procedure be made at this time.
2. It is apparent that LIONION 1 relayed the incorrect devel-
oping formula for the pulse camera film. Perhaps this error is due to
his inactivity in processing such film for over a year. Since the
conception of this operation all pulse camera film has been developed
in Microdol X. On the other hand, Tri X film used in the LIONION 2
operation (Pentax camera and, Balscope) has traditionally been devel-
oped in Acufine.
3. All pulse camera film is processed at Headquarters by an
automatic Huston system. Time and temperature information which the
lab uses would be of little value to your development procedure. The
results of your recent test indicate that it should be satisfactory
for an occasional check on the equipment.
4. The difference between Plus X Negative and Plus X Pan film
is worth only one half "f" stop, which should cause no problem if you
decide to use the latter.

Albert J. LASCOFF
Distribution:
2 - COS/Mexico City
1 - COS/Panama City
Group 1 - Excluded from
automatic downgrading
and declassification
50-6-122/2
HMMS 5358
25 April 1967
SECRET
Support
TSD/POB
RWM
2378
1 - TSD/Reg
1 - WH/1
1 - TU/2
1 - TSD/TOPS WH/1 25 Apr Mr. Stewart by phone x6955
2 - POB files
1 - WH/2 Mr. Hidalgo x5421
TSD/TOPS Hr. Roming in draft
TSD/COP

QUENTIN C. JOHNSON

---

14-0000
Polly Pike/emo
WH/Logistics
6282
4 April 1967
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
SECRETARIAL I
TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
FILE IN CO FILE NO.
RID COPY
INFO
FILE
SECRET
MEXICO CITY
LIONION
REFERENCE:
Support
LOGS 4 TSD6
CITE DIRECTOR: 89630
MEXICO CITY 0912 (IN 34374)
PX PAN-417 FILM ASA 125 CAN BE USED BY CLOSING DOWN CAMERA LENS ONE
HALF F-STOP SMALLER OPENING. ALTERATION TO HQS PROCESSING NOT NECESSARY.
REQN 559-59-67 WILL FURNISH ASA 80, PXN-417 A NON-STOCKED FILM. FYI,
STOCK NUMBER 6750-103-0513 IS FOR PX PAN-417 ASA 125. DO NOT RE-ORDER
PXN-417 FILM BY THIS STOCK NUMBER.
END OF MESSAGE
WH/COMMENT: LIONION Pulse Camera has been using PXN-417 film ASA 80,
but supply just received is PX Pan 417 ASA 125.

WILLIAM V. BROE
C/WHD
RELEASING OFFICE
Telecoord:
TSD/POB, Dick Thayer
OL/SD/CCDB, Catherine Van Combos
WH/1
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET
GROUP 1
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
50-6-122
R.L. KING
C/WH/LOG
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER
COPY NO.

---

14-00000
PROJECT YES NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
RLY TO FILE NO.
FILE RID RET. TO BRANCH
DESTROY SIG.
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
TOTAL COPIES
ADVANCE COPY
RID COPY
ISSUED
TUBED
FILE VR TSDG, LUGSY,
SECRET CITE MEXICO CITY 0312
DIRECTOR.
LIONION TECHS
REF
A MEXICO CITY 0681
B RON NO 559-59-67
LIONION PULSE CAMERA HAS BEEN USING PXN-417 FILM
ASA84. SUPPLY JUST RECEIVED IS PX PAN 417 ASA 125. IF
LATTER USED WITH SAME SETTING IN LIONION CAN HQS COMPENSATE
IN DEVELOPMENT? IF NOT PLEASE MONITOR REF (B) AND EXPEDITE
SHIPMENT OF PROPER FILM.
SECRET

---

14-00000
DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
Attn: Geoffrey K. BLOXALD
Chief, WH; COS, Panama City (Clement C. BROCK)
FROM
Chief of Station, Mexico City
SUBJECT
AQUATIC/LIONION Pulse Camera
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
Action: See paragraph 5.
PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
MICROFILM
1. The LIONION Pulse Camera has been working for well over a
year with no major technical problem. A few months ago the 100 foot
film magazine had to be repaired because the supply spindles had
tightened and put an excessive strain on the motor.
2. More recently, the battery supply had dropped to about
22.5 volts or so causing erratic operation. The sensor relay between
the VLS-2 and the camera suffered the most because of chattering and
consequently arcing between the points.
3. To prevent failures of this type in the future, Raymond L.
BARCENAS is making a small battery charger at a nominal cost that
can be floated across the batteries keeping them fully charged.
We are doing it this way rather than ordering a DC power supply
because it is less expensive than a commercial model and will not
be bothered by house current interruptions or fluctuations. If
however, WOACRE/PB foresees any problems by doing it this way, please
inform us.
4. On a recent visit to LIONION and a check of the equipment,
it was found that the lens of his FOCOMAT IC enlarger has a fungus
like smudge between the elements. We cannot detect any degradation
in print quality but would like to have a new one in case this is a
fungus and it gets worse.
5. In summation it is requested that WOACRE/PB provide the
following to Mexico City, charge 7135-2403.
a. Sensor Relay believed to be a Patter-Bromfield 5A5089
but please check;
b. Comments on the power supply;
c. Lens for a Leitz FOCOMAT IC.

Willard C. CURTIS
Distribution:
WOACRE
WH
Panama
CS COPY
DATE: 7 February 1967
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
HMMA-31294
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
HQS FILE NUMBER
50-6-122/2

---

14-00000
DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
Attn: Peter T. SWINEHART
Chief, WH Division
PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
FROM
Chief of Station, Mexico City
MICROFILM
SUBJECT
AQUATIC/PBRUMEN/LIONION - Transmittal of 35mm Pulse Camera
ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES
Reference: MEXI-3960
1. The attachment contains the defective 35mm Pulse Camera
previously reported in referenced cable. Very little additional
Information can be supplied, concerning this mechanical failure,
other than that reported in the reference. This particular camera
was installed on 16 June 1965 and operated normally from that date
until the afternoon of 28 June, at which time It began to continually
blow fuses. Hugh T. FRANCOTTE entered the LIONION photographic
basehouse that night, and when it was found that the problem could
not be corrected on the scene, the camera was removed and taken to
MKCHARITY for further troubleshooting. It was finally discovered
that the shutter motor was malfunctioning and partially burned-out.
Joseph M. RESCIGNO stated that since there was a definite "short"
in the motor, this would cause the camera fuses to constantly blow.
2. Also included in the attachment are two (2), one hundred
foot capacity, film magazines. Both of these magazines are faulty,
causing the film to jam. They were both in use with the previous
Pulse Camera which became inoperative during late May and was
forwarded to KURIOT Headquarters for repair. FRANCOTTE had two (2)
new magazines in stock, and they were issued to LIONION/1 for use
with the camera presently being returned for repair or replacement.

Willard C. CURTIS
Attachment:
Camera
Film magazines
Distribution:
2 KURIOT, w/atts
WH, w/o atts
CS COPY FILED IN
DATE: 1 July 1965
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
HMMA-26520.
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
HQS FILE NUMBER
50-6-122/2

---

14-00000-
DISPATCH
SECRET
COS, Mexico City ATTN: Hugh T. FRANCOTTE
and ATTN: Lawrence F. BARTER
FROM
Chief KURIOT
AQUATIC
Passports for LIONION -1 and 2. Case 5670, 5670-A
ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES
ACTION REQUIRED: Paras 2, 3
REF: HMMA-26017, 4 May 1965
PRIORITY
New passports were issued for LIONION -1 and for LIONION -2 in
accordance with your request. These documents as well as the 2 old pass-
ports are being sent to you in true name pouch.
2. The documents have a validity period of 5 years from date of issue;
however, please return them to KURIOT after the passports have served their
purpose. Please sign one copy of the document receipt form accompanying
the documents.
3. When the LIONIONS -1 and 2 have received their immigration papers,
please try to send the original documents to KURIOT for a brief examination.
If they cannot be sent, KURIOT would like to have color-annotated photo-
copies of them.

LEON T. CISSEL
ATTACHMENT:
1 envl.
1. Documents, U/S/C/T/N/P
DISTRIBUTION:
3 - COS, Mexico City, w/att
DATE
27 May 1965
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
HMMW-13,672
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
PRIORITY
HQS FILE NUMBER
50 - 6 - 122/2
ORIGINATING
TSD/AB/4 Wesley Parcells
TYPIST
COORDINATING
OFFICE SYMBOL
Case 5670
Case 5670-A
WH/1
AP/4 Files
AB/4 Chrono
RID/AN
WH/1
ABSTRACT
DATE
OFFICER'S NAME
Mr. Spera by Phone
X-4507
RELEASING
OFFICE SYMBOL
CATE
OFFICER'S SIGNATURE
C/TSD/OA
ROBERT BUSSEY

---

14-00000
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
FILE-RID RET. TO BRANCH
DESTROY SIG.
FROM
MEXICO CITY
ACTION
TSDG
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
TOTAL COPIES
ADVANCE COPY
RID COPY
ISSUED
TUBED
FILE, VR, WH 7, F1, WH/C8
SECRET 291651Z
PRIORITY DIR CITE MEXI 3960
AQUATIC PBRUMEN LIONION
PULSE CAMERA BEGAN CONTINUALLY BLOWING FUSES AFTERNOON 28 JUNE.
FRANCOTTE PERFORMED BASIC CHECKS THAT NIGHT AND REMOVED CAMERA FOR
FURTHER TROUBLE SHOOTING MKCHARITY. TROUBLE BELIEVED TO BE CENTERED
AROUND DEFECTIVE SHUTTER MOTOR. MOTOR CHECKED MKCHARITY AND FOUND
PARTIALLY BURNED OUT. REPAIRS CANNOT BE MADE MEXI. REQUEST REPLACEMENT
CAMERA SOONEST. MALFUNCTIONING UNIT TO BE POUCHED HQS JULY.
TEMPORARY PHOTOGRAPHIC SURVEILLANCE EQUIPMENT INSTALLED LIONION BASE
HOUSE MORNING 29 JUNE.
SECRET

---

00000
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
RET. TO BRANCH
SECRET
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
DEF TO FILE NO.
FILE RID
DESTROY SIG.
FROM
MEXICO CITY
ACTION
ESDG
TOTAL COPIES
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED
ADVANCE COPY
RID COPY
ISSUED
TUBED
FILE UR, WHICH, C., Files, FI, FI/INTZ) WH7.
SECRET
DIR CITE MEXI 3829
AQUATIC PBRUMEN LIONION
REF TM 593898, 8 JUNE 1955.
17 JUN 65 IN 92775
PULSE CAMERA CABLES FORWARDED VIA REF, RECD 16 JUNE. CAMERA
INSTALLED AND TESTED SAME NIGHT AND IS OPERATING SATISFACTORILY.
SECRET

---

00000
DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
Chief, KURIOT
Chief, WH Division
Chief of Station, IMWAVE
PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
FROM
Chief of Station, Mexico City
SUBJECT
AQUATIC/PBRUMEN/Issuance of LIONION Passports
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
References: (A) MEXI 3234, 28 April 1965
(B) DIR 06231, 1 May 1965
MICROFILM
1. Attached (USC) are the expired genuine PBRUMEN
passports of LIONION-1 and LIONION-2 together with two photo-
graphs and five signature specimens of each agent.
2. It is requested that new PBRUMEN passports be
prepared by KURIOT and pouched to the Station as soon as
possible.
3. The assumption of reference B that passports
obtained at the PBRUMEN Embassy in Mexico City are actually
issued in the PBRUMEN Capitol City is correct.
4. The old passports should be returned to the Station
as the Mexican immigration visas appearing of pages 11 and 19 of
the LIONION and LIONION-2 passports, respectively, must be
in the possession of the Subjects until they are granted their final
immigration documents.

Attachment:
As stated - (USC)
Distribution
2 - C/KURIOT w/att (USC).
1 - C/WHD w/o/att
1 - COS, JMWAVE w/o/att
3 - Files
DOC FORWARDED W/O S/C
BY RID/AN
CROSS REFERENCE TO
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
HMMA-26017
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
DATE
4 May 1965
HQS FILE NUMBER
50-6-122/2

---

14-000
CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
HMMA-26017
5. The Station is investigating through LICRAFT-1 the
passport issuing service in the Miami area, as mentioned in reference
cables, and will forward details in separate correspondence.
Examples of Miami-issued passports will be made available for
Headquarters perusal.
6. The Station wishes to express its appreciation to
KURIOT for prompt action in response to reference A.

Willard C. CURTIS
CLASSIFICATION
FORM
1401
USE PREVIOUS EDITION.
SECRET
CONTINUED
PAGE NO
2

---

14-00000
FROM
CLASSIFY TO FILE 50-6-122/2
FILE:D
ACTION
INFO
VR. FILE DDP. WH,
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED:
TOTAL COPIES
ADVANCE COPY
GLOTTED
