14-00000
104-10185-10030

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

3 July 1962

TO: WKH
FM: AMS
RE: ZRRIFLE

1.  Per our discussion of 2 July 1962, I expect that we shall proceed to transfer QJWIN to Baden-Baden per the proposal in OLLA-1463 dated 2 February 1962. LUXE-0489 dated 19 June 1962 stated that COS would have the full details of the capital outlay required by 23 June; however, the information has not been received as of 3 July. The last cable to the Station, DIR 18391 told COS to contact you directly on his arrival on 16 July.

2.  With regard to candidates spotted by QJWIN, the two whom he spotted in Italy a year and a quarter ago can probably be used if needed, if we can accept the assessments of them by the Trieste Base contract agent, Magonetti. Magonetti's assessment is contained in OTRA-27542 dated 10 May 1961. The names of the two French candidates are contained in OLLA-1426 dated 15 December 1961. No action has been taken on these names regarding tracing or anything else. My handwritten notes attached to that dispatch contain fuller descriptions of the two people than appear in the dispatch.

3.  The other spotting effort that can be made is through Hank Manfredi (TN) in Rome. Hank was well briefed on the qualifications desired and the security precautions to be observed in the spotting activity. COS Rome has a copy of the qualifications and restrictions in his safe; however, if Manfredi is told to proceed with his contact in Florence, I suggest that he be re-briefed in detail.

4.  Frankly, all the rest of the paper in the file is crud except for the pay receipts which are assembled in one envelope. I have already given the ZRRIFLE authorization paper signed by Helms and Skip has been given the QJWIN contract, including the extension to 1 March 1963.

5.  The details which have yet to be worked out are:
    a. The precise method of contact with QJWIN
    b. The system of drawing funds for payments to him
    c. An emergency contact for him (this should probably be COS LUXE).

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce
3/68

14-00000

6. Despite COS LUXE's viewpoint, I happen to know that QJWIN can do more spotting in Corsican circles whenever we want him to.

AMS

14-00000

The candidate: no name used; circa 43-45, 1.75-1.78, strongly built, broad shoulders, circa 85 kilos, slightly oval full face, blond hair combed straight back thinning in corners, thinning on top, rosa complexion, no eye color noticed, worker's hands, nose thin and curved outward a little, thin lips; chin full but not fat, makes impression of a handwerker; has been in prison Sante twice (burglary) - name does not begin with A,B,C,D -- otherwise would have gone to Fresne prison; not known whether convicted; has own car; free to travel; 5 years POW in Germany: M. impression: good nerves; composed; can open usual safe; would work with someone previously unknown to him; M. would use him; willing to use gun; did not ask money; Hugo wants his cut. Lives 250-300 km from Paris; legal occupation unknown. Contact thru Hugo; can cut Hugo out with money. This candidate ready any time. Has no passport, but can get one. Can also get passport under phoney name. M. Likes this one as candidate.

Saw G and G's candidate 28 April with lokal in Paris; G contacted this candidate directly; candidate Henri description: circa 45 - 48, 1.75 - 1.78; dark brown hair; full, deep on forehead; shiny and combed back; half part on right; brown complexion; not quite square face; brown eyes; heavy eyebrows dark brown w/verbindung between eyebrows; bridge of nose depressed, nose somewhat small; normal ears; mouth schräg when he speaks; small scars on left cheek and small scar running from middle of nose on left side; brown hair on hands, no more; well dressed; hands well kept; fingertips smokes (Prenek J Ami cigarettes; not a drinker; lives Paris; frequents Bar Le Corsaire, 110 Ave de Suffren; can be found there every day from 4:30 PM; specialist in safes - own tools; also holdups; in Sante prison; belonged after war to Lyon St. Etienne underworld; gave some facts of this which M knows to be true; wanted to know if should be armed for job - ready to go to the end; has a colleague with whom wants to work; not behind iron curtain and not in France; would be expensive; has expired passport, but no sweat in renewing it: M. impression - would follow orders; better action man than Hugo's candidate, but not sure whether has safecracking experience to extent Hugo's man has; has car - Dauphine, beige (2) F2461HS75 (Paris #); not married. M can contact him at tel SUF 46-99 - this is the bar. M told him two weeks to three months (also told Hugo's man the same) but Gaillord's candidate wants to know in few weeks whether still hope. Could bring both candidates together into a team.

14-00000

2 MAY:

1.  Santelli could not locate his cousin. Tristo
    Satible
    Morille after talking to Hugo + taking
    his contacts - built in Hotel De Globe,
    Marseille.

2.  Santelli met Pakovani Jean, married in 42-43,
    works on RR in Marseille - lean in tubelen
    no children, solid person can heophies tongue,
    has done lastkups, never caught, motivegrator,
    good connections in Corsican underworld in
    Marseille; ht 1.70-1.72, din bild p
    spink bik, head on sides is brown, and face,
    brownish complexion (Pust not laks), brown eyes,
    mente ligte sucker French + lon
    Fow Yo-45, writing for ick a furging, his
    7018 fine St. Therese in lose friends";
    Some leaking for candidates.
    Jumpose in reciting him again.
    Esshid for a Felix Carboni (?),
    proficicndfugle, Corsican live inside,
    hoibh mlio was reset by police
    in a holdup. f. still looking bar belix.

14-00000

3.  understands completely what is sought.

4.  Hugo: spotting few day in
    M. Ainsi
    Hugo H
    Transport Aldo (stobal) - Time Julietto
    Jaquillard, 155 Rue Lavonne Paris
    Tel. ROQ 06-45; met Hugo 29 apr(call
    Join from Morsible to all of
    Candidate; hier with Hugo & the
    you candidate 1/2-3/4 hour

The candidate no name word; CA. 43-45,
1.75-1.78, strongly built, broad sliders,
ca 85biles, slightly oval full face, blond
hair combed straight back thing
in corners, thinning on top
compliation, honge color, wher
hands, now this & and intuenda
little, the lies; chin full first rest
fat, make surection of a
hankwerker; has been in pričsu
Sante twice meme do not begin
-Sauté
hanglang ( med f. 6. CD – and
well but
8845
Fresne prison: not list white

14-00000

convicted; besowncar; bollit tone; you
POW in terms; M. impression good
nepes, compared, can open mind cafey would
mabot somesse prestando to
him; M. would we brin; willing to an open;
hd mot ask money; Hugo vents
his art hims 250-300 km from
Paris; legal occupation mulensson,
Contact the Pugo; can est Pugo
out #w/money, this cantitate
reads any time. Has a passport, but
can get one. Can alorget to passport
under prong name M. likes this
one as candidate.

A G and G's cult for
lobal in Paris, G contacted this
love; decompet
candidate directly; Heure
45-48; 1.75-1-78; kah brown her
full, diep on firelised, ching, combed beach,
half past on right; brown complection;
not faite square face; sizes; 177-2
derli down wij verligting bestil izdvous;

14-00000

bridge of nose depressed, nose somewhat small; normal ears; mouth schräg when he speaks; scars on left cheek + smell searmuring from middle of nose on left side; brown hair on hands, no miss, well dressed; hands will kept; fingertips merecking; smokes bym dr-7 ami eignettes, mint a kruh; Lyon) are fairs; frequents for te Corsaire, 110 Rude saffren; can be found there way has from 4:30PM; sperdict in safes - own toots; also holdups; in Santé prison; belonged after wor to Lyon-At-Etienne mederwald; gave sen faits of this which M knows to be true; wanted to ge if still be armed for job hissa ready to go to the end;

14-00000

colleague with whone with to work; nest lias bed &mst in Brance; would beexpensial lifeived passport, but no avistin. venicade, et, M. iimpression; would fellow orders; his action run than frigo candidate but noticure whith has colecrating experienceto extent the gods man das. Has car; Dauphrie, beige (?), #246148825 (a); ut med, m.can contact live at til: SUF 46-90 this is the bar. M. lt him a niks to 3 mas (aborteld Hugo's in the came) but Mailord & candidate wants to know in few withs whithe still hope. Could bring dat crylates get ito a Ziem
