14-00000
104-10226-10087 | [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

TRANSMITTAL

OF SECRET
TDCS INFORMATION REPORT
CLASSIFICATION ROUTING

(When Filled in)

UNIT
TFW/Intel/Reports
Ext.
5547
DATE
27 August 1962

CONFIRMATION COPIES
TDCS-3/520,846

INFORMATION COPIES
CI/OPS, CI/IC, FI, FI/D, FI/INT 5, IW 2, CA 2, CA/PRG, OS, WH 6, WE 4,

DATE DISTRIBUTED
27 August 1962

DISSEMINATION BASED ON (Std. Rpt. Prev)
TFW/FI 2 TFW/PROP-PA 1
WH/B
WE/3
WE/R
TFW/Int 2 TFW/SI 1
TFW/R 2 TEW WAVE 1
TFW/CI 2
TFW/PM 1 WH/PACY 2

EVALUATION REQUESTED
STATE ARMY NAVY AIR
OF ROUTINE PRECEDENCE

OS/SSP/Batman 1.
WAVE-7632 (IN-11670)
WAVE-7114 (IN-46173)
UFG-1396
UNION (UNION-11)
Liaison: G

HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

DD/P INTERNAL USE ONLY
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
CLASSIFICATION

COORDINATING OFFICER(S)
W.S. Compton
WE/3/RE (in draft)
RELEASING OFFICER
C.O. Happel
TFW/Intel

SECRET
(When Filled b)

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs.
793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
S-E-C-R-E-T/NO FOREIGN DISSEM
REPORT NO. TDCS-3/520,846
COUNTRY CUBA
SUBJECT PLANNED UPRISING BY OPPOSITION
GROUPS IN CUBA
DATE DISTR. 27 AUGUST 1962
PRECEDENCE ROUTINE
DATE OF INFO. AUGUST 1962 REFERENCES
PLACE & FRANCE, PARIS (25 AUGUST 1962) RD-ACQ-01258 IN-46173
DATE ACQ. RD-W-2107 -11670
FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE AN OFFICIAL FRENCH SERVICE.

1. MEMBERS OF THE UNIDAD REVOLUCIONARIA (UR) REPORTED TO THE
FRENCH EMBASSY IN HABANA THAT ON 10 AUGUST THEY WERE INVITED TO ATTEND
A MEETING ON 14 AUGUST ORGANIZED BY THE DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO
ESTUDIANTIL (DRE) AND THE MOVIMIENTO REVOLUCIONARIO DEL PUEBLO
(MRP). THE PURPOSE OF THE MEETING WAS FOR THE THREE GROUPS TO PLAN A
STAGE OF ACTIVE WARFARE. THE UR WAS ADVISED BY THE FRENCH EMBASSY
NOT TO PARTICIPATE, BUT THE UR COULD NOT CONVINCE THE DRE AND THE
MRP TO REVERSE THEIR DECISION FOR AN UPRISING SCHEDULED FOR THE LAST
DAYS OF AUGUST, WHICH WOULD RESULT IN A GENERAL UPRISING OF ALL
INTERNAL RESISTANCE GROUPS.

2. FIELD DISSEM:
CINCLANT, CINCARID

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
S-E-C-R-E-T/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS
SECDEF NSA
NIC USIA OCI ONE OCR ORR OO DIA
REPCINCLANT EXJ
INS]

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
S-E-C-R-E-T/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TDCS-3/520,846
PAGE 2

HEADQUARTERS COMMENT:
AMERICAN EMBASSY, PARIS, TELEGRAM
NO. 984, DATED 26 AUGUST 1962, REPORTED INFORMATION FROM THE FRENCH
AMBASSADOR IN HABANA ON THIS AGREEMENT FOR A GENERAL UPRISING
DURING THE LAST DAYS OF AUGUST.

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
S-E-C-R-E-T/NO FOREIGN DISSEM
