14-00000
104-10171-10021

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

1. During your recent TDY to Headquarters, you requested all available information regarding a young Cuban name(s) who talked to Identity 1.

2. Identity 2 met with Jose Maria Lasa Rutibeasoon and Identity 1 on 2 October 1961. Identity 1, apparently, had requested Subject's uncle, a Cuban official in Switzerland, to meet with him, who had recently departed from Cuba under a safe conduct agreement.

3. During the conversation, Lasa talked about his uncle, an old school friend of Identity and, also, Subject's father, a minor Cuban Government official also stationed in Switzerland. Both the uncle and father were in disagreement with the Castro Government and there was some indication that one or both were willing to defect. Although this point was touched on obliquely, Identity 2 gathered that Subject wanted to get his father into this country with some assurance of support. The question was not asked directly and no commitments were made or implied.

4. After this relatively short talk in Identity 1's office, Subject and Identity 2 went into a conference room where he gave Identity 2 papers dealing with the organisation and purpose of the DEX (which were already available) and said he would work with the students in the future and also expressed a wish to go to Switzerland for the purpose of informing the International Red Cross group there of the inhumane treatment of Cuban political prisoners.

5. In parting, Identity 2 had a distinct impression that Subject had not really accomplished the primary objective of his visit, and as he was returning to Miami, the foregoing was passed to Identity 3.

6. For further information on Subject refer to HAVE-8368, 9 Oct 61; DIR-17475, 12 Oct 61; and DIR-23974, 14 Nov 61. Also, see copy of GATA-1631 (Attachment 2).

Distribution:
2 - CCS, JERAVE

29 Jan 1962
2 FEB 1962

UPQM-787

201-309133
