14-00000
104-10171-10230
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-E-C-R-E-T

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: MEXICO CITY

DATE: 9 JULY 60

ACTION: WH 5 (AR [REYNOLDS] WH DIV NOTIFIED 2050 9 JULY 60)

INFO: DCI, D/DCI, DDP, COP, ADDP/A, CA 2, CA/PRG, CA/PRO
CI, CI/OPS, CI/IC 2, 100 b, S/C 2

ROUTING: OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE

REF: A. DIR 38758 (OUT 9 JULY 60 1420)
B. MEXI 5852 (IN 22332)
CITE: MEXI 5853 (IN 22641)

1. LATE NIGHT 8 JULY COS HAD CONFERENCE PARA 7 REF 6.

2. LITENSOR STATES DID NOT APPROVE EITHER IN GENERAL OR SPECIFIC TEXT SPEECH EMILIO SANCHEZ PIEDRAS NOR ITEMS TO BE TREATED SPEECH IN ADVANCE. SANCHEZ SPOKE AS INDIVIDUAL CONGRESSMAN DID NOT SPEAK FOR GOVERNMENT, NOR DID HE SPEAK FOR (WHOLE) PARTY (PRI). HE SAID SENATORS AND CONGRESSMEN "AS IN U.S.A." SPEAK FREELY AND ON OWN.

3. LITENSOR SAYS PORTION SPEECH REGARDING CUBA WAS "WIDELY MIS-QUOTED". HE SAID IN NO PLACE DID SANCHEZ MENTION CASTRO OR CUBAN GOVERNMENT. HE SAID "SANCHEZ EXPRESSED FRIENDSHIP AND SYMPATHY FOR "CUBAN PEOPLE" AND HE POINTED OUT THIS HAD BEEN U.S. GOVT POLICY ALSO. REPORTERS (HE SAID) HAVE INTERPRETED THIS SPEECH TO MEAN CUBAN GOVERNMENT AND CASTRO REGIME, WHICH LITENSOR STATES IS NOT MEXICAN POLICY. HE SAID "THE SOONER CASTRO AND TRUJILLO ARE GONE FROM THE CARIBBEAN THE SOONER THIS PORTION OF THE WORLD CAN RETURN TO PEACE AND NORMALCY".

4. LITENSOR DID NOT RESPOND TO QUESTION OF WHETHER HE WILL MAKE CLARIFYING STATEMENT BUT BOTH LIERGO AND LIELEGANT SAY HE WILL MAKE NO SUCH STATEMENT.

5. LIELEGANT BELIEVES LITENSON WILL BE WILLING IN NEAR FUTURE HAVE MEETING

S-E-C-R-E-T

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.

14-00000

PAGE 2 IN 22641 MEXI 5853

6. BOTH (LIERGO) AND (LIELEGANT) STATE NO PRI SENATOR OR CONGRESSMAN "OF PRESTIGE" WILL STAND UP AND TAKE ISSUE WITH SANCHEZ. (ILLEGALIT) PRIVATELY STATED HE HAS ONE OR TWO PRI SENATOR FRIENDS WHO ARE OLD AND WITHOUT POLITICAL FUTURES WHO COULD LIKELY BE CONVINCED THEY SHOULD CLARIFY ISSUE, BUT THEY NOT "OF PRESTIGE". ALSO, SOME PARTIDO ACCION NACIONAL (PAN), CATHOLIC RIGHT WING CONGRESSMEN WOULD DO BUT THIS NOT CONSIDERED WORTH EFFORT BY (LIELEGANT). (QUESTION OF PAYMENT HAS NOT BEEN MENTIONED.)

7. TO DATE HAVE FOUND SANCHEZ HIGHLY RESPECTED NOT PARTICULARLY TO LEFT NOR PARTICULARLY CLOSE LAZARO CARDENAS. WILL LOOK FOR "PERSONAL VULNERABILITIES".

8. FYI: AMB HILL HAD TALKS WITH FOREIGN MINISTER TELLO AND WITH CORONA DEL ROSAL (PRESIDENT OF PRI). SEE HIS EMSTEL WHICH CAS HAS NOT SEEN YET.

9. WILL CONTINUE TO REPORT.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S Comment:

* Suggested operations for the field to attempt to carry out in an effort to get the (Mexican authorities) to take issue with Sanchez Piedra disclaiming the latter's recent statements.

** Stated that COS 1) would attempt to see LITENSOR(2) on 8 July.

S-E-C-R-E-T

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.
