```markdown
14-10222-10005

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

STANDARD FORM
January 1972

DESCRIBED BY U.S. CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION
Federal Personnel Manual Ch. 293
66-104

SECRET

No7 Novita (F) To Justd
Official Personnel Folder

SECRET

-1904
KEENAN THOMAS J
CODED
for
QUALIFICATIONS
000 06/29/30

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000
AFPL
DATE 4-17-78
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
NUPUR.C.A.
National Personnel Records Center
(Civilian Personnel Records)
111 Winnebago Street
St. Louis, Missouri, 63118
STATEMENT CONCERNING CHRISTMAS ASSISTANT EMPLOYMENT
of indicatio
12-1-521-14-45
12-16-52-4-12031-0 Ne k
20413
AR 24 M
E. L. PRICE

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000
APR.
1978
Mondar
Jule 14:
14
2. CURRENT NAME (
KEENAN, THOMAS
REQUEST FOR OFFICIAL PERSONNEL FOLDER
(SEPARATED EMPLOYED
Section TO BE COMPLETED BY REQUESTING AGENCY
24 HAM UNDER
NATIONAL PERSONNEL RECORDS CENTER, GSA
(CV Personnels Records)
111 WINNEBAGO STREET
1 DATE OF REQUEST
23 February 1978
LIPPLOYED
СЧЕ
DATE OF BIRTH
& SOCIAL SECT
SUBMA
395 26
REASON FOA
STAL
JRI 63118
United States Post Office
11/52
12/52
United States Post Offi
11/51
12/51
Ba. Currently
Tem
If no reco
e found please
sent
USE BY RECOR
yroll search.
In custody of
uest sent to that
c. Folder
warded
ation req
Fis rehi
tast employing office.
o. Folder, not located.
Search of your agency
further
still unlocated.
verify correctness of name; and furnish
date forwarded and several names of other
folders in same
pment
hal
She athadiah Mish Farme 4894
Date:
Section III TO BE COMPLETED BY REQUESTING AGEN
Initials:
Division of
cation
Curczy of resonnel Investicators
U.S. Civil Service Commission
washing.on, D. C. 20415
1-406
7
Enter complet
قوة عليه
taller or rep
is to emailed
lacile ZIP Code

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000

12
UNCLASSIFIED
INTERNAL
USE ONLY
SUBJECT:
degu
FROM
CONFIDENTIAL
☐ SECRET
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
for Personnel Records from the Federal
QP/CD/TR3
Files Section
5 E 13 HOS:
CCS/CSB
44 HQ3
33 1s
6151
Center
Mary 1973
on or
Tease contact
7165*
FAB
(circle one)
EN PROCES3:
15.
OP/CD/TRB
Files Section
55 13 13
1074610evious
3.87
older
the 03
PEDAL RECORDS CENTER
LAST EMPLOYING AGENCY,
SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL
INTERL
USE ONLY
UNCLASSIFIED

--- Page 5 ---

REASON FOS
7. REMARKS
CURRENT NAME F
REQUEST FOR OFFICIAL PERSONNEL FOLDER
(SEPARATED EMPLOYEE)
tion |--TO_BE_COMPLETED BY REQUESTING AGENCY
UNDER W
DATE OF QUEST
23 February 1978
SWEAT SPLOTED FEDERALLY
CENTER GSA
!!
Pre-employmer
rotain folder if:
Folder
Folder was sent to your agency
☐ c. folder forwarded in place of
Information requested Retain it
person is retired.
d. Folder not received Suggest you
contact last employing office
0. Folder not located. Sugrest.fui
search of your agency
Verify correctness of name
date: forwarded and several nar
folders.in santo shipme
ocated;
other
I FOR USE BY RECORDS CENTER
Folder believed in custody
Original o
your request sent to
Secbi TO BE COMPLETED BY REQUESTING AGENCY
127 197
Enter compl
akes to an A
folder on reply
is to be mailed
Include 11P Code.

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000
18 March 1987
Thomas Keenan (LA)
Dear Tom,
Please accept my appreciation for an assignment well
done as a member of the FY 1977 CS-13 Evaluation Board.
Your full-time service with the Board represents a
major contribution to the Directorate's program
nel assessment and management.
promotion, career development
of person
very helpful.
ons for
have been
Your recommend
and other matter
ened
I believe you will find on return to your regular
duties that this time spent with the Board has broa
and sharpened your own focus on the personnel aspects of
Agency management. I think it will make you appre
more than ever our need for carefully and candidly
appraisals of employees
Sincerely,
I Handle
f
William W. Wells
Deputy Director for Operations
written
CONFIDENTIAL
(When Filled lan
NOTICE OF CREDITABLE SERVICE
[FOR LEAVE PURPOSES]
Keoran, Thomas J.
DDO/LA
THIS DATE
October 25, 1977
11-72
171
SERVICE
OMPUTATION
January 19, 1954
Kont M. Cargile.
CONFIDENTIAL
IMPORT CL. BY 076221
026090

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000
118/77
SERIAL NUMBE
026090
SECRET
PEQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION
Keenan, Thomas
3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION
Reassignment
NOCA
EFFECTIVE DATE ROUESTED
0208
8 February 1977
CAFROOR
77
9. FAN AND NA
7135 4525 0002
DDO LA Division:
Operations Staff
POSITION:
erations Officer
Wash
D.C.
CNSS
DYB
KEDULE (GS, LE
0136.01
From:
DDO/LA/MCA
#3 c pur Dian/LAJ
22
عليميل.
DATE. SIGNED
vince: Non Winters
SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE
DATE
2/15/7
4th
hn 11 pin C/LA/P
Feb
SPACE BELOW FOR
USIVE. USI
ACTOR 20 EURO 11
OFFICE-
22. Station
DATE OF TH
MPMANTIC
371031668LA
Cors
TE EXPRES
19 SPECIALS
POOS LIVE COVERLET SERVICE
2-23:17
11-
ON CONTROL CIRCATION
1152
ERICUS stab
75013
31. SEPARATION
E
COO
CANPLEATION DALA
EOD DATA
28. FEB
пысы
2226.77
SECRET
0070
1.2 IMPORT CL. &

--- Page 8 ---

14-00000
OCE
C-NO money
61.5405
SECRET
(
REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION
{--Middle)
DATE: PRIPARD
22 June 1976
026090
Keenan, Thomas J.
REFECTIVE DATE SOUSED
CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT
Reassignment and Delegation of
NSCA
06
Regular
HOM AUTH
DDO/LA Division.
xico Central America Branch
Officer Ch
DDO
37
attached
0136.01
4528 0001
300 LA
PACK
188 SIGNATURE OF CABLER
AYLOVING
Jun 76
Low: 108 EXCLUSIVE W
77 Station
73013
OFTAT
A. NM/C
☑1 RETRACTOR 64
DAFE MONED
6/23/26
29 JUN 1976
SECRET
Bata

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000-
90.76.
19 MAR 1976
MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Operations
SUBJECT
Keenan, as
Appointment of Mr. Thomas
Chief Mexico and Central America Branch
1. The appointment of Mr. Thomas J. Keenan as Chief
our Moxico and Central America Branch a GS
sition
effective in June 1976 is recommended.
replace Mr. Jack F. Mathews Who is presently Chief Mexico
Branch
Mr. Keenan has been an employee of the Agency
since May 1957 and is currently attending the Army War
College His biographic profile and two most recent fit
ness reports are attached
Attachments
Biographic Profile
Fitness Reports
Photograph
R.S. Samp
Richard S. Sam
Chief
Latin America Division
The recommendation in paragraph 1 is (JAPPROVED
Druce H Bl
Deputy Director for Operations
22 M 1976
EZ IMPDET
CL BY 055762

--- Page 10 ---

JDF
D-NO STATE(S).
1. SERIAL NUNES
SECRET
REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION
2. MA
Middle)
026090
NATURE OF
Chan
Keenan
Thomas
hed signment
Functional Category
TIME DATE REQUESTED
5135 0983 0001
10. toc
30 December 1974
DDO LA Division:
ign Field
ton Jamaica Stati
Political Officer
Chief of Station
Kingston Jame
Jamaica
Kingston amaica
0660
16 GRA
15
DATE SIGNED
Pers 30 Dec 74)
SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERV
ACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSON
PACTI
MAT: OFFICE COSTING
22 STATIONS
150)
ALPHAMETIC
3710
79 DECI
BAN
Regular
DOB
12/31/74
BATE OF LE
37043
062930
MINERENT DATA
11-SEPARATION (OTECTION CANCELLATIO
DATA rect
SECUNTY
CODE:
FOD DAYA
33 VET PREFESU
(D
37 (005 (087 - GATE
บ
2-197
PRINCOS CUPULL COM
POSITION CONTROS CERC
FOR MO
SECRET
007422
02. 107 CL. B.
o

--- Page 11 ---

14-0000
SEGREE
REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION
D. PREPARED
22 May 1974
0260901
3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION
Promotion
TO
59
DDO WH Div
Foreign
Branch
Thomas
EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED
MONTH.
DAY
3. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYM
YEAR
74
egular
7 FAN AND NSCA
8: LEGAL AUTHORITY
by Oa
4135-0984 0001
LOCATION OF OFFICIAL
Kingston, Jamaica Station
Political Abus
ef of Station
(14)
0660
0136 05
From GS 14/4
MEE
Kingston, Jamaica
13 CAREER serv
NR
ALARY OF RATE
20677
$29,205
Home Bar WH
(1)(d)
Kingalon Jamaica
CAR/Pers
21:
OFFICE (DOG
DATE SIGNED
22 May 74
SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVIC
SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL
72. STATION
CODE
23.-INTIGEN
28: DOTES 25 DATE OF BIRTH:
300)
MO
DATE SIGN
2.2 MAY 1379
CATE OF GRADE
DATE OF LEI
NO
10 51975 411 37043
UTE EXPERES
125 176
20 SPECIAL
31. WTFREFERENCE 24 SEPT. COATE
RETISEMENT DATA
COCE
17. LOSS: COPDATER
DA
n
19130051462405126174
31. SEPARATION 3 CORRECTION/CARCELLATION DATA
DATA CODE
TYPE
11 AGOST
Coos:
DA
30
COO
FIGLI/HEALTH
14. SO
EOD DATA
REA: 40
2-13
K01:
EFORE CIVILLE GOVERNMENT. SERVIC
47. LLAVE CATE
CODE
1- EHTRESS; THIN-1 CLAS);
43. POSITION CONTROL CERTICATION
573-74122
RESERA-TA
STATE LES ESTA
NO TAX EXEMPTIONS
46 OP AFP
PH Jerma
1432
VN NEVESA TON
SECRET
CLASS:
1-2
wit
CODE: (10-TLE STATE-
ELLAP
DATE APPROV20

--- Page 12 ---

14-00000
MEMORANDUM FOR:
SUBJECT:
SECRET
EYES ONLY
Deputy Director for Operations
Recommendation for Promotion to Grade GS-15
homas J. Keenan
WH Division recommends that Nr. Thomas J. Keenan
be promoted to 65-13.
Mr. Keenan has been serving as COS Kingston since
October 1973 Ho was selected for this important position
as a result of the high level of performance turned in by
him in his previous field tour as Deputy Chief of Station
Lima In Kingston he has inherited a Station in which,
because of circumstances beyond control of Agency personnel,
the incumbent faces enormous opera onal and circumstantial
difficulties. The Ambassador was declared persona non grata
last summer and concomitantly both the attitude of the
local security services with which we conduct liaison and
the attitude of Jamaican personalities of import has become
increasingly hostile. Mr. Keenan thus faces a great
challenge in rebuilding operational activities practically
from scratch. In spite of the short time in which he has
been in place he is off to a promising start and has already
demonstrated the qualities of leadership and imagination
which we expected of him. He has shown soundness in
directing his two subordinate officers and in counseling
them on how to achieve desired objectives in specific
operational situations He has likewise maintained ex-
cellent relations with the acting principal officer who in
turn has shown himself to be a strong supporter of the
Station's efforts
3. It is noteworthy that Mr. Keenan has been able to
maintain the Station's morale at an acceptable level in
the face of the extremely difficult law and order situation
in Kingston where personnel must live in constant daily
fear for the well-being of their dependents.
SECRET
EYES ONLY
023345

--- Page 13 ---

14-0000
SECRET
EYES ONLY
This Division believes that the performance of
Mr. Keenan in this initial period of his first experience
as Chief of Station amply justifies the confidence and
trust placed in him when he was chosen to occupy that
position.
id A. Phillips
Chief
Western Hemisphere Division
SECRET
EYES CITY

--- Page 14 ---

14-00000
6
SECREf
REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION
KEENAN THOMAS JOHN
A NUMBER
026090
G
REASSIGNMENT
DDO/MH DIVISION
PETARED
31 July 1973
STIVE DATE REGUESA
CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMEN
09
15
73
REGULAR
4135 0984 Coo
of
FOREIGN FIELD
BRANCH 7-KINGSTON, JAMAICA STATION KINGSTON, JAMAICA
11. PORTION
CHIEF OF STATION
0136.05
FROM: DDO/MH/BR-37DCOS, PERU STATION
HOME BASE:
13 CARTER sav
YBE 0660
☆ Salang. Blind
Security
Finance
BERTHOLD, C/WH/PERS
SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE
STATIO
TEST COA
11:41. FREI
34.
1/16 (
12 LASAF
9.30 1152
49
75
1
SECRET
GNATURE OF CAREES
OF PERSONNEL
...
26671
DATE:SIGN
BATE OF LIN
06199130
36-40
EOD DATA
40
*

--- Page 15 ---

14-00000
Thomas J.
WH
PROPOSED STATION
WH/ Kingston, Jamaica
TYPE OF COVER AT ME STATION
State Integree
1DARCATE OF REQUEST
26 July 1973
177-OFFICE OF MEDICAL SERVICES SPOSITIO
18. GFFICE OF SECURITY DISPOSITION
OPSEAS CANDIDATE REVIES PANEL DISPOS11
SECRE
7. DATE 05:0197
29 June 1930
LOADE
G8-14
and
3. PRESENT POSITION
PROPOSED POSITI
COS 0660. GS-1
10. ESTIMATED DATE OF
Sept 1973
even
P
REQUESTING-OFF
6815
18: RO DUNDER AND
3D5317
6815
21:00
1.04
259
REQUEST FOR FCS OVERSEAS EVALUATION
SFCRFT

--- Page 16 ---

i
LES ME
14-00000
SECRET
Lipcutive Regis
Legistry:
26 JUL 1973
NENORANDUM FOR: Director
Central Intelligence
THROUGH
Deputy Director for Operations
SUBJECT
Appointment of Mr. Thomas J. Keenan
Chief Station Kingston, Jamaica
as Chief
Thomas
Station Kingston, Jamaica
position
effective on or about September 1973 Is recommended.
Keenan has been an emp
since May 1957 and
Chief of Station, Lima
also served overseas in
graphic profile, including
Agency experience and trair
Agency
has
and Br
ation
fitness reports are attache
and th two OS
There is no foreign
uage requirement for assignment to Kingston
Attachments
Biographic Profile (Parts
Fitness Reports
SECRET
A. Phi111p
Chief
for
Western Hemisphere Division
73.4177

--- Page 17 ---

14-0000
SECRET
SUBJECT
Appointment of Mr. Thomas J. Keenan
as Chief of Station, Kingston, Jamaica
The recommendation in paragraph 1 IS APPROVED ()DISAPPROVED
Deputy Director for Operations
31
Date
1973
The recommendation in paragraph
Wall
Director of Central Intelligence
Acting on
()APPROVED ()DISAPPROVED:
3 Ay 1973
bat

--- Page 18 ---

?
14-00000
LIMITED OFFICIAL USE
THE WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON
Keenas, Kong
Konies J.
June 12, 1972
MEMORANDUM FOR JIM LUDLUM
SUBJECT: COURTESIES EXTENDED BY CIA PI
DURING MY RECENT TRIP TO LATIN
I want to thank you most sincerely for the ourtesies extended b
your Station Chiefs and other personnel during my recent
to Latin America.
Without exception, your people were most gracious and helpful.
They were also forthright with respect to both their activities
and their problems in dealing with the narcotics target
It was quite apparent that you and Ted Shackley have succeeded
in conveying to the field the message about what the Agency is
posed to be doing in the drug field.
If the appropriate occasion should arise, I would appreciate your
conveying my appreciation to Messrs. Horton, Kiyonaga, Reife,
Keenan Thayer, Dickens and Millian.
Will
Walter C. Minnick
„LIMITED OFFICIAL U

--- Page 19 ---

14-00000
SECRET
(d).
REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION
XX 4 Nov 71
SERIAL NUMBER
2. MA (Last-Firs-Middle
026090
KEENAN
THOMAS J.
NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION
REASSIGNMENT (CORRECTION)
NCTIVE: DAIE REQUESTED
S. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT
30
REGULAR
ANALYSIS: NO.
LEGAL
CHARGEABLE
FUNDS
σ 100
2135 1084
ORGANIZATIONAL
DDP/WH
FOREIGN FIELD
BRANCH 3LIMA, PERU STATION
TION OF OFFICIAL STAT
LINA PERU
SITION TITL
TACHE POLITICAL OFFICER
PS OFFICER DCOS:
EDULE (GS LB etc:)
0135
16 GRADE AND
04 1
0136 01
FSR
S: REMARKS
17761
$ 21509
HB WH
This action to correct Item 11 to Read Ops Officer/DCOS
Berthold
17. ACTION TO PLOT:
CODE
NUMERIC
OFFICE CODING
ALPH
SPACE BELOW FOR XCLUSIVE: US
72 STATION
EUSKATE DIPURES
[DA
79SPECIAL
REFERENCE
RETIREMENT: DATA:
21SEPARATION 12 CORRECTION CADIL
PATA CODE
Coos
PORE'
OFFICE
PERSONNEL
BATE OF GRADE
CATE OF LET
13 SECURITY
EOD DATA
15 WET PREFERENCE
36 SERV: COMPAT
37 LONG COMPA
MO
CAREER CATEGORY
DA
cool
$39
code
FEGLI MALALTIA ENSAI RAJKI
40. SOCIAL SEC
HEALTH HS cool
PREVIORA (ITILLAR GIVE KRISENTASERIALE"
6-80 PRIVES SERVICE
1-
1- MAS
63 POSITION
ENTER CERTIFICATION
FAQ LEAVES CAT
FEGIUM TAK DATA
"'
Coel
EXECUTED
NO. TAX EXEMPT>C>$
1152
UST FREVIOUS FOTION
SECRET
Suth
STATE FAR-DATA
Jaff

--- Page 20 ---

14-00000:-
1. SERIAL NU
SECRET
REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION
}
DATE PREPARED
13 October 1971
026090
KEENAN THOMAS
4 EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED
DAT
YEAR:
3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION:
REASSIGNMENT.
4 FUNDS
GANIZATIONAL DESIGN
DER WH
FOREIGN FIELD
BRANCH 3 LINA PERU STATION
POLITICAL OFFICER
HOFLIC
REMARKS
0136 01
09 30
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS: HO
CHARGEABLE
#2135 1084
10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STAT
LIMA
PERU
3. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT
REGULAR
LEGAL AUTH
CASTER SER
17,761
$21.509
From: ? DDP/WH/FF/Bogota, Colombia Station.
Approved 259a attached
*HB WH
* Bogota, Colombia
Vice Chaitis Dickins
Remacki ugaiding language renuments on 2572
2 Security 1 Payroll
NATURE OF
Henry L Berthold
O pr office occupying an Opr. office
DATE SIGNED
130271
SONATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPE
SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL
GAFE
DATE OF GILDE DATE OF LE
DA
24575. DATE OF BIRTH:
MO.
129130
DATA
133 SECURITE
REQ. DO
EOD DATA
53
19 ACTION 20 EMPLOYE
OFFICE COOTES
27. STATION 23 6
ALPHABE
a519760
57095 S
22025, ATE EXPIRES
29. SPECIAL
REFERENCE
DA
va.
- Bost
35 VET PREFERENCE
36 SETY COR CARE
31-SEPARATION 32. CORRECTIO
40 SOCIAL SECURITY. NO
CODE
1-14
1-100
PREVIOUS CIVILIAN SOVEMENT SERVICE
DO PREVIOUS SERVICE
COVERAB
15:
CAREER CATEGORY:
RANCE
DA
HEALTH INS
PROTTLE
LATE LATE
FEDERAL TAX BATA
STATE TATE
(
FORM RECUND
NO. PAREMPIONS
HOLM EXECUTED
43 POSITION CONTROL CER
Rod 10.-15=71.
USE PREVIOUS FORTION
SECRET
P
DAIZ APPROVE
11/15/71

--- Page 21 ---

14-00000
NAME
213410)
395-26-2991
Keenan, Thomas J.
4. OFFICE, DIVISIO DRAN for overseas station and
existing cover if
DDP/WH/Bogota State
PROPOSED STATION
Lima
TYPE OF COVERED
State
12 COMMENTS
SECRET
DATE OF BIRTH
29 Jun 30
S. PRESENT POSITION
Ops Officor
GRACE
GS-14
EMPLOYEE EXTENSION
7431
PROPOSED POSITION (+/itle. Nombornedraday
Ops Off DCOS/0135/GS-14
10% ESTIMATED DATES OF
DEPARTURE
Oct 71
seven (7)
Vice: Charles Dickens
Physical will be taken in the field and results forwardod to Hqs.
Keenan's tested Spanish language proficiency of Intermediate
Reading and Elementary Speaking meets the general language
requirements of the Station.
Gregory 19
OF REQUES
19 Mar 71
17 OFFICE OF MEDICAL SERVICES
OFFICE OF SE
ford
1.06
259****
101710 S
ITURE OF "COUESTING OFFICIAL
15. ROOM NUMBER AND BUILDING
EXTENSION
3D 5309
7131
PANEL
17 MAY
QUALIFIED For
FESEAS
PAY & L
REQUEST FOR PCS OVERSEAS EVALUATION
SECRET
(4)

--- Page 22 ---

14-00000
1 SERIAL NUMBE
SECRET
REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION.
DATE PREPARED
25 January 1971
026090
3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTI
REASSIGNMENT
KEENAN THOMAS J.
PECTIVE DATE REQUESTED.
DDP/WH
FOREIGN FIELD
BRANCH 3
BOGOTA COLOMBIA STATION
POL OFF ATTACHE
OPS OFFICER
07
NCIAL ANALYSIS NO.
1135 0834
CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMEN
REGULAR
LEGAL AUTHORITY. (Complete
BOGOTA, COLOMBIA
CART EERVICE DEMON
1792
14:CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS. LB
13. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES
16 GRADE AND STEP
17. SALARY OS RATE
ESR
GS
0136.01
04
14
$20,
* Argola, Cromana).
FROM:
#0327
Lang
TURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL
Berthold'
DATE SIGNED.
108 SIGNATURE OF
SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PER
7. STATION
CODE
19 ACTION FEPLOY 21
NUMERIC
OFFICE CODING
ALPH
DA
35 VET PREFERRE
PREVIOUS CIVILIAN SOVEMENT SERVICE
ptiva kara ' to pel J ศ
that as
45 POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION
1152
RETIRED
OFFICER
DATE SIGNED
127-71
26 DATE OF GRADE:
DATE OF LE
30
SECURITY
24 SEX
ON: BIT
EOD DATA
31 SEPARATION 32 (0SECTION/CANCELLATION: CATA
GATA CO
TYPE
205 CARER CATEGORY.
GAL
coom
coot
FECERAL TADATA
ICUTRO
VM vous tation.
SECRET
40 SOCIAL SEU
STATE TAX
'CON
DATE ANROVED
-1-29-914

--- Page 23 ---

14-00000
SECRET
1.0963
MEMORANDUM FOR:
SUBJECT
Deputy Director for Plans
Appointment of Mr. Thomas
as Deputy Chief of Station,
Keenan, 08-14,
Peru
pointmen
Deputy Chief
15 October 1971
Mr
Thomas J. Keenan, GS-
Peru, effective on or
Keenan would
Charles B. Dicke
of the Agency
as an operations:
tour in
Keenan has been an employ
since May 1957. He is currently assi
officer in Bogota Mr. Koonan has also served
Mexico City He has an excellent command of the Spanish
language.
A biographic profile, including information
concerning his Agency experience and training, is attached,
Attachment
dam Y Broe
Chief
Western Hemisphere Division.
Biographic Profile (Parts 1 & 2)
The recommondation in paragraph is APPROVED:
Deputy Frector for Plans
Dato
SECRET

--- Page 24 ---

14-00000
***UFZU JE YA NUSA RASUALNIK
G
53
1 SERIAL LUMBER
026090
3. NATURE OF PERSONN
Promotion
FUNDS
ORGANIZATIONAL
DDP/WH
SECRET
REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION
2 MANS-In-Middl
DATE P
23 July 1970
Keenan, Thomas J.
ACTION
4. EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED
MONTH
07/26170
CRA
10. LOC
S: CATEGORY CO
Regular
FOREIGN FIELD
BRANCH 3
BOGOTA COLOMBIA STATION
OPS OFFICER
14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS. LD,
GS
TO REMARKS
FROM: GS 13 step
PRA
BOGOTA COLOMBIA
(13) 0327
OCCUPATIONAL SERIES
10:
0136.01
04
14
19,643
$18,437
all with NR20.178 (1)a
Bogota,
Colombia.
DARE SIGNED
188 SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APP
DATE SIGNED
ers
7/23/70
HENRY LY BERTHOLE
ACTION INPLOT I
SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL
23 VENTI
76: KDQ1PS 75.
a
MO.
DA:
7. STATION
DATE OF
21.
DATE OF LE
CODE:
NUMERIC
ALPHABETI
31700 WH
2
07/26/2012/2670
RETIREMENT: DATE:
Cool.
31 SEPARATION 32. CORSECTION CANCELLATION GATA
CATA CODE
STYPE:
33 SHTURITY
ELQ 150
34, SEX
EOD DATA
021251/2 8/1
35 VET PREFERENCE
cact
LONG COMP Bar
192
14. ·CAREER CATEGOR
CODE
Coca:
1-10
-PREVIOUS CIVILISH GOST FRAIS
42. LEAVESCORE,
FEDERAL TAX DATA
COG
UTIO COCE
NO SEATT
1-19
POSITION CONTECA CISTRICATION
1152 REVIOUS LOTION
0724-70/
P
40 OP
SECRET
49. SOCIAL SECU
STATE TAR-CATE
DATE: APPROVED
સ

--- Page 25 ---

14-00000
FAMENTS
S-E-C-R-E-T
(when filled in).
17 JUL 1967
MEMORANDUM FOR:
Chief Records and Control Division.
FROM
SUBJECT
Custody
Executive Secretary, Honor and Merit Awards Board
Honor Award presented
Because of security restrictions, the Honor and Merit
Awards Board is acting as custodian of the subject's Honor Award
and related papers listed below: Certificate of Merit
When security restrictions no longer prevail, the Awardee
may obtain his award by calling the Executive Secretary
Ellie B. Glenn
ELLIN B. GLENN
stribution:
Subject's OP File
C/Support Staff/Wa
HMAB Case File
HXAB Custody File
G-E-C-R-E-T-
(when filled in)

--- Page 26 ---

14-00000
TO:
SECRET
(When Pilled in)
REPORT OF SERVICE ABROAD
Office of Personnel, Transactions and Records Branch, Status Section
SERIAL NO
AL NO.
LAST
026090
INSTRUCTIONS
USE APPROPRIATE SPACE BE
MERASUBMI13.10
DATA FOR EITHER PCS OR TOY.
OF BASIC DATA-CORRECTION20
ESFOR THE MONTH, AND LAST TWO DIGITS ONL FOR YEAR REFER
CABLE
OTHER (319).
UMENT
REMARKS
PREPARED.
1451a
PCS DATES OF SERVICE
DEPARTURE-0193
DEPART
35-36
LLATION
TOY DATES OF SERVICE
PE OF DATA
OFFICE OF PERSONNEL USE ONLY PUNCH, AREA
WIDDLE
Colomba
75/0
SOURCE DOCUMENT AND CERTIFICATION:
DISPATCH
DUTY STATUS. OR TIME AND ATTENDANCE REPORT
DOCUMENT DATE/P
DATE
1/20/600
ABOVE DATA CERTIFIED CONNECT, BASED
SIGNATURE
AND R
THIS REPORT WILL BE FILED IN THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL
IN THE INDIVIDUAL'S OFFICIAL PERSONNEL FOLDER.
SECRET
(4-10

--- Page 27 ---

14-00000
香饼
_SERIAL NUMBER
026090
SECRET
REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION
7. Ale);
DATE PREPARED
14 JUNE 67
KEENAN, THOMAS J.
3 NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION
ECTIVE DATE REQUESTED
3. CATEGORY. OF EMPLOYMENT
PROMOTION
(CORRECTION)
V. TO C
OTOV
ΧΧ στο σ
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
NO CHARGEME
7135-0834
REGULAR
8. LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by 06
SANIZATIONAL
DDP WH
FOREIGN FIRD
BRANCH 3
BOGOTA COLOMBIA STATION
POSITION: TITLE-
POLITICAL OFFICER ATTACHER
OPS OFFICER
OFFICIAL STATION
BOGOTA, COLOMBIA
0327
AND
0136