```markdown
14-00000

104-10413-10306 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

Page Count: Wrong. 86

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM: Chief, Latin America Division

EXTENSION NO. 1431

DATE: 13 JUL 1978

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)

DATE RECEIVED FORWARDED OFFICER'S INITIALS

VIA: Mr. Russell Holmes
O/EXO/CI

Mr. Scott Breckinridge
Principal Coordinator/HSCA

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

FORM 610 3-62 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL USE ONLY UNCLASSIFIED

14-00000

SECRET

13 JUL 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Scott Breckinridge
Principal Coordinator/HSCA

VIA: Mr. Russell Holmes
O/EXO/CI

FROM: Raymond A. Warren
Chief, Latin America Division

SUBJECT: Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEV

1. Attached is a file folder titled "Yuri" which contains informal and preliminary research based on a theory that Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEV might be identifiable with the "unidentified man" observed entering and departing the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City, Mexico, in October 1963. Ms. Christine Hopkins undertook to research the theory that MOSKALEV might be the unidentified man as a result of the indepth study she conducted as the Task Force Leader of this Division's efforts to determine if there could have been Cuban complicity in the John F. Kennedy assassination.

2. Although the material contained in the attached folder is entirely theoretical and does not constitute an official file or position of this Division or Agency it may be of interest to Mr. Blakey and Mr. Cornwell of the HSCA.

3. It is requested that you review the material contained in the file folder and, if you consider it appropriate, make the material available for Messrs. Blakey and Cornwell to review with the understanding that it is a theoretical unofficial research undertaking.

Raymond A. Warren

1 Attachment as stated

E2 IMPDET
CL BY 12180

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED
INTERNAL USE ONLY

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM: Chief, Latin America Division

EXTENSION NO. 1431

DATE: 13 JUL 1978

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)

DATE RECEIVED FORWARDED OFFICER'S INITIALS

VIA: Mr. Russell Holmes
O/EXO/CI

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

FORM 610 3-62 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL USE ONLY UNCLASSIFIED

Dup

14-00000

SECRET

13 JUL 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Scott Breckinridge
Principal Coordinator/HSCA

VIA: Mr. Russell Holmes
O/EXO/CI

FROM: Raymond A. Warren
Chief, Latin America Division

SUBJECT: Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEV

1. Attached is a file folder titled "Yuri" which contains informal and preliminary research based on a theory that Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEV might be identifiable with the "unidentified man" observed entering and departing the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City, Mexico, in October 1963. Ms. Christine Hopkins undertook to research the theory that MOSKALEV might be the unidentified man as a result of the indepth study she conducted as the Task Force Leader of this Division's efforts to determine if there could have been Cuban complicity in the John F. Kennedy assassination.

2. Although the material contained in the attached folder is entirely theoretical and does not constitute an official file or position of this Division or Agency it may be of interest to Mr. Blakey and Mr. Cornwell of the HSCA.

3. It is requested that you review the material contained in the file folder and, if you consider it appropriate, make the material available for Messrs. Blakey and Cornwell to review with the understanding that it is a theoretical unofficial research undertaking.

Raymond A. Warren

1 Attachment as stated

DDO/C/LA/STB/WSturbitts:esm (X9127) (13 Jul 78)

Distribution:

Orig - Addressee w/att
1 - C/LA/STB w/o att
1 - LA/CO/CIOS w/o att

E2 IMPDET
CL BY 12180

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET

April 1977

SUBJECT: Theory re MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich and Unidentified Man

That Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEV might be identifiable with the "unidentified man" going into and coming out of the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City in October 1963. The "unidentified man" was recently identified by SLIPSTREAM as a KGB type by name of "Yuri" whom he knew in Moscow in 1964.

According to travel records MOSKALEV was in the USSR in 1964; in the U.S. in October 1963.

MOSKALEV functions officially as a Soviet scientist and often attends international conferences. He has been in contact with known GRU Soviet diplomat in the U.S.

MOSKALEV bears a striking resemblance to composite of "Saul" in book Appointment in Dallas who claims he was involved in the assassination of President Kennedy. "Saul" claims:

- he crossed border into U.S. illegally and was in Dallas on 20 November.

- that he had been to Mexico City, had a contact in Soviet Embassy there, in 1963, and that he knew the identity of OSWALD because he (OSWALD) had been fingered to him in Mexico City.

14-00000

- that OSWALD was involved in the Kennedy assassination plot, but that he, "Saul", fired shots that killed Kennedy.

- that two hours after the assassination he, "Saul", was out of the U.S. That he used limp as a disguise.

QUESTIONS

1. Could MOSKALEV be "Saul"?

2. Could MOSKALEV, therefore, be mystery man who boarded plane in Mexico City for Havana on 22 November 1963?

3. Was assassination a Soviet conspiracy without Cuban knowledge?

RECOMMENDATION

1. Can we obtain voice tape of MOSKALEV, since he has delivered speeches at scientific conferences in U.S. and abroad?

2. If so, could we arrange to have McDonald (unwittingly) hear it, to see if he recognizes it as that of "Saul"?

Chris Hopkins
LAD/JFK Task Force

14-00000

1. Can we find photo that PENKOVSKY identified of MOSKALEVSKIY.

2. May I see PENKOVSKY's 201 file for period 61-63?

3. Get photos and check out MOISEEV and BABKOV.

4. Via CI Staff, find out if we can show photo to DERYABIN and ROSTVOROFF?

5. Could MOSKALEV be Dept 13? Could OSWALD have met with him in Mexico City clandestinely in 1963?

14-00000

SECRET

26 March 1977

SUBJECT: Juriy Ivanovich MOSKALEV

DOB: 23 July 1920

POB: Iguamnovo, USSR

HGT: 172 Centimeters

Hair: Brown (medium light)

Eyes: Gray

Wife: Married to Vera Nikolayevna STRELTSOVA

Children: Unknown

Misc: Became a Communist Party member in 1951

Was allegedly imprisoned during war because of his German descent or for black market dealings.

Occ:

1922 - Family moved to Leningrad.

48-70 - Lived in Moscow

1958 - Became head of Division of Institute of Biophysics, Soviet Ministry of Public Health

1951-53 Head of Patho physiology Lab, Inst. of Biophysics.

1952 - Last half of year, had a month's TDY at Biophysical Lab. in Moscow.

1953 - When source (Dr. Wilhelm MENKE )STIB, left as Chief of Pathphysiological Lab. at Sungol in Oct. 53, MOSKALEV took that position. He reportedly was not well qualified.

14-00000

Personal Misc.

1. Very adept diplomat - finds it easy to adopt conversation to group he is with.

2. Excellent chess player, patient with both adults and children.

3. Has dacha near Moscow.

4. Reads, writes, and comprehends English well, but speaks it with less proficiency. Reportedly speaks it much better after few drinks. (He is careful about drinking, if he drinks at all, in relation to attending conferences.)

14-00000

26 Dec 62 - CIA A-3.246.539

Re International Conference on Diagnosis and Treatment of Radioactive Poisoning, Vienna, Aust. 15-18 Oct 62. "Most interesting aspect of meeting was conduct and contributions of Prof. MOSKALEV of USSR Academy of Sciences. His subject was listed as "Uptake and Retention of Plutonium in Man"; no abstract was presented. When he spoke he changed the title to "Problems of Kenetics of Uptake and Retention of Radioisotopes." His paper presented nothing new and can be described as elementary. He apparently spoke no English.

19 Jan 63 - OOB 3,248,156.

Information from another source on the above conference. Dr. D. J. SEMENOV and Dr. I.T. TRUGUBENKO ? were invited to attend. The Soviets sent instead, Prof. MOSKALEV. He was bright, but not individual who should have been sent representing the USSR at this meeting. Was said to be his first time out of the USSR. / CDH comment - not so. /

9 July 63 - DF-440

(PENKOVSKY)

Source: AEDAZZLE-1 (doi 1961) identified photo (not by name, nor was name supplied) as that of Col. Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEVSKIY, Air Force Col. and GRU Officer in Information Directorate of GRU who attended a meeting in London in May or June 1961.

21 Aug 63 - OOB 3,271,609

MOSKALEY participated at meeting of IAEA panel on Toxicity of Incorporated Radionuclides, Vienna, Austria 4-8 June 63.

14-00000

18 Oct 63 - OOB 3,278,069

Re Symposium in Vienna, Austria from 26-31 August 63. The Soviets sent a small three or four member delegation headed by MOSKALEV "a very personable and diplomatic gentleman." At the end of the conference MOSKALEV voiced his dismay that the Soviets had misunderstood the exact point of the meeting and had presented very minor papers.

3 Dec 63 - OOB 3,283,411

Symposium on Radiological Health and Safety in Nuclear Materials Mining & Milling, Vienna, Austria late Aug 63. "Due to misunderstanding in USSR, topics covered by symposium were not known sufficiently in advance for Soviet scientists to contribute papers on other than nuclear toxicology." All papers were given by Dr. L. N. BURYKINA in the absence of MOSKALEV et al.

10 Dec 63

14-00000

30 Dec 63 - OOB 3,286,351

MOSKALEV atttended Symposium on Radiological Health and Safety, Austria, 26-31 Aug 63.

23 Jan 64 - OOB 3,288,475

IAEA Symposium on Neutron Irradiation, Brookhaven, Long Island, N.Y. Oct 63. MOSKALEV, one of the Soviet delegates, was frequent commentator on other people's work and made a practice of denigrating their reports with respect to radiation lethality. Sources (3 U.S. scientists) were asked if they thought MOSKALEV's objectives were motivated from anything more than genuine scientific position. They responded, - "Who can say?" MOSKALEY, both from papers he gave and his questions and comments in discussion, indicated he was very sharp. The paper he gave presented no new data. His paper said nothing specific.

24 Oct 66 - OOB 321,15482-66

About one third of the Soviets expected at the Third Int'l Congress of Radiation Research put in appearance. The papers were disappointing. A paper written by MOSKALEV and V.A. STRELTSOVA was not impressive.

16 Oct 67 - OOB 321,30340-67

MOSKALEV attended the Second Int'l Symposium on Delayed Effects of Bone Seeking Radio Nuclides, Sun Valley, Idaho, 12-14 Sept 67. He presented an interesting paper. He was not expected at the meeting and came alone, arriving two days early. He had furnished no brief and it was a surprise to hear his paper. He understands English reasonably well, but speaks it less well. Therefore, his appearance alone at the conference was even more unusual. He became very interested in visiting a certain U.S. facility, and U.S. Gov't pursued arrangements to visit it.

14-00000

clearance and permission to visit were obtained, but he "backed-out" (after all had been arranged) saying it was too much trouble for U.S. persons and authorities concerned.

16 Oct 67 - OOB 321,27474-67

MOSKALEV participated in Second Int'l Symposium on Delayed Effects of Bone Seeking Radio Nuclides, Sun Valley, Idaho, arriving two days early. He had travelled alone to Sun Valley and apparently was able to use his knowledge of English language to get along on his own. However, he complained to Chairman of conference that he did not know enough English to read his paper which also required condensation because it was too long for the time allowed. A colleague who had known MOSKALEV from previous meetings said MOSKALEV's knowledge of English improved greatly after a few drinks. However, he did not drink at all during this conference. He did mention that he had written the English version of the paper he presented himself. A respected U.S. scientist with more experience than MOSKALEV said he frankly did not believe MOSKALEV's findings. (Said this in private.) MOSKALEV attempted to make propaganda of a report by a West German. MOSKALEV left the conference a little upset. He took copious notes on all papers, which indicated he understood what was going on. He also took many pictures with a 35 mm camera. From questions he asked in private, it was obvious he understood English quite well. Considerable time was spent in arranging visit to a U.S. lab. in route to his home. He took a different route, without telling anyone of plans, and did not visit the lab.

N.B.

N.B.

14-00000

1 Feb 70 - OOB 321/17309-70.

Fnu MOSKALEV and P.V. RAMZAYEV were scheduled to attend the Biology & Ecology of Polonium and Radiolead Conf. Sutton, U.K. 30 Apr to 1 May 70, but apparently were not permitted by the USSR to attend.

1 Jul 70 - OOB 321/20573-70

MOSKALEV was among Soviet delegation to Second Int'l Congress on Radiation Protection, Brighton, U.K. 3-8 May 70. MOSKALEV personally attended virtually every session and was very busy asking many questions. He asked all questions through an interpreter, but when answers were given, in English, he always seemed to understand without benefit of his interpreter.

24 Aug 70 - OOA(S) 322/33488-70

Sept 70 MOSKALEV visited a U.S. facility devoted to research in field of nuclear medicine. "It is obvious that he is a careful and trustworthy worker."

13 Nov 70 - Visited Brookhaven in Oct 63; Sun Valley in 67; and Hanford Biology Symposium 69.

14-00000

24 Aug 71 - U.S. Embassy Moscow Airgram

Science Berkeley Lab. 600254

26 Sept 71 - Four Soviet scientists, MOSKALEV, MOISEEV, NENOT and MASSE, participated at the same Transuranium Biology Symposium at Hanford during week of Sept 26. They were in San Francisco by chance at the same time and desired to visit Berkeley on the same day. They did not travel to the conference together. It all seemed to be coincidental. Drs. MOSKALEV and MASSE reportedly understood more English than they could speak. Dr. MOSKALEV was the USSR's rep. on ICRP internal dose committee.

14-00000

23 Dec 71 - OOE 324/37776-71

Dr. Yuriy I. MOSKALEV, Inst. of Biophysics, Min. of Public Health, visited several U.S. biological and biophysical research facilities. During that time it was learned that he was chairman of the USSR equivalent to the U.S. National Council on Radiation Protection. In this position Dr. Aleksey A. MOISEEV (Central Advanced Institute for Training of Physicians, Moscow) was MOSKALEV's secretary.

25 Oct 71 - Letter to U.S. Atomic Energy Commission from BATTEFFE Pacific Millhwest Jadoratorias

12 May 73 - U.S. Embassy Moscow files

Chris Hopkins

14-00000

SUBJECT: Passports Used by MOSKALEV, Yuriy MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEV, Yuriy Mikhailovich

1957 PP# Unknown

1962 S-012960

1963 S-022766
S-012960

1964 S-022766

1965 S-022766

1967 O-113459

1968 T-286915

1970 O-286915
S-201222

1971 S-201222

1972 O-068765

1974 S-201222

Unknown

MOSKALEV has following birthdates:

23 July 1920

17 January 1920
21 July 1920
1930

14-00000

TRAVEL

NAME DPOB OCC PP# DATE FROM-TO

MOSKALEV, Juriy Ivanovich [Sept 57] USSR France Chem

MOSKALEV, Yuriy 1920 S-012960 Oct 62 Aust. USSR

MOSKALEV, Yuriy 1920 Oct 62 USSR Aust.

MOSKALEV, Yuriy 23/7/20 Biol. S-012960 Oct 62 USSR Aust.

MOSKALEV, Yuriy 23/7/20 Phys. S-022766 May 63 USSR Aust.

MOSKALEV, Yuriy 1920 S-022766 30/6/63 Poland Aust.

MOSKALEV, Yuriy 1920 S-022766 8/6/63 Aust USSR

MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich 23/7/20 Scie. S-012960 Oct 63 USSR USA

MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich 23/7/20 Scie S-012960 Oct 63 USA Denmark

MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich 23/7/20 Scie S-012960 Oct 63 USSR USA

MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich 23/7/20 Scie S-012960 Oct 63 USA Denmark

MOSLAKEV, YuriyIvanovich 23/7/20 Scie. S- Oct 63 USSR USA

MOSKALEV, Yuriy Mikhailovich 23/7/20 S-012960 Oct 63 USA Denmark

MOSKALEV, Yuriy Mikhailovich 23/7/20 S-012960 Oct 63 Denmark USSR

MOSKALEV, Yuriy 23/7/20 Medl. S-022766 9/11/64 Aust. USSR

MOSKALEV, Yuriy 1920 S-022766 14/11/64 Aust.

14-00000

NAME DPOB OCC PP# DATE FROM-TO

MOSKALEV, Yuriy 1920 S-022766 15/4/65 Aust USSR

MOSKALEV, Yuriy 1920 S-022766 10/5/65 Czech Aust

MOSKALEV, Yuriy 1920 0-113459 8/9/67 USSR Can

MOSKALEV, Yuriy 1920 0-113459 8/9/67 Can USA

MOSKALEV, Yuriy 1920 0-113459 8/9/67 Can USA

MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich 23/7/20 Prof. 8/9/67 USSR USA

MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich 23/7/20 Stu 0-113459 8/9/67 Can USA

MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich 23/7/20 Chem. T-286915 4/4/68 UK

MOSKAEEE, Yuriy Ivanovich 23/7/20 Chem. T-286915 11/4/68 UK

MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich 1/2/70 UNNY

MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich 23/7/20 Biol. 0-286915 2/5/70 UK

MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich 23/7/20 Biol. 0-286915 16/5/70 UK

MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich 23/7/20 S-201222 11/70 USA Suis

MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich 23/7/20 Biol. S-201222 15/4/71 USSR UK

MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich 23/7/20 Biol. S-201222 25/4/71 UK USSR

MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich 1930 S-201222 26/9/71 USSR USA

MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich 23/7/20 S-201222 10/71 USSR USA

MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich 23/7/20 S-201222 17/10/71 USA USSR

MOSKALEV, Yuriy IvanoAch 23/7/20 Biol. S-201222 25/4/71 UK USSR

MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich 1930 26/9/71 USSR USA

MOSKALVE, Yuriy Ivanovich 23/7/20 S-201222 10/71 USSR USA

14-00000

NAME DPOB OCC PP# DATE FROM TO

MOSKALEE, Yuriy Ivanovich 23/7/20 S-201222 [17/10/71] USA USSR

MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich 23/7/20 Prof 0-068765 11/11/72 UK

MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich 23/7/20 Biol S-201222 15/11/72 UK

MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich 23/7/20 9/3/74 Suis

14-00000

USSR CONFIDENTIAL CIA-P-312403
MOSKALEV, YURIY IVANOVICH. 1971.
INSTITUTE OF BIOPHYSICS,
MOSCOW.

PHOTO

14-00000

SECRET

April 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Possible Identity of the "Unidentified Man" Photographed in Mexico City in October 1963

REFERENCES:

A. Photos Taken in Mexico City by Mexico City Station

B. Paperback Book "Appointment in Dallas"

C. Soft File, Headquarters Information on Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEV, Possible "Unidentified Man"

1. Photographs of the unidentified man were taken by our Mexico City Station on 2, 3, 4, and 15 October 1963, going into or coming out of both the Cuban and Soviet Embassies in Mexico City. Copies were provided to the FBI in Dallas, Texas on 22 November 1963. Although cropped copies have appeared in various works, including Volume XX, page 691, of the Warren Commission Report, and the book "Appointment in Dallas", to our knowledge the individual has never been identified.

2. On 17 March 1977, a former member of the Cuban General Directorate of Intelligence (DGI) recognized photographs of the unidentified man as Yuri LNU, a KGB officer, whom he met in Moscow in 1964 while attending an intelligence course there. He said that Yuri, a fluent English and Spanish speaker, was acting as a trouble shooter for the Cuban group, about 15, attending the course. Yuri lived with

14-00000

the Cuban and Bulgarian groups quartered in the same building in Moscow. Any time the Cubans had a problem, Yuri would solve it for them. Yuri was a good friend of Juan (pseudo) a KGB officer who taught the Cubans about the Agency (CIA) and the West German intelligence apparatus. Juan told the DGI member that he had served in Mexico for about 20 years and in the U.S. clandestinely for about 10 years (specific dates unknown). Yuri was entrusted with their welfare only, and did not attend classes with the Cuban group.

3. SE/X travel records were reviewed in search of an individual by the name of Yuri who possibly fit the description of the unidentified man. This lead to an individual by the name of Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEV, a Soviet, reportedly a Doctor of Medical Sciences, who has participated in international scientific conferences for the USSR since 1962 or earlier. Although there is no official 201 file on MOSKALEV, there is a sizable dossier on him in the Central Reference Service. Many of the documents in his dossier are OO reports from U.S. scientists concerning MOSKALEV's attendance and behavior at scientific meetings. It is obvious that he has a much greater knowledge of the English language than he admits. His capability is said to improve greatly after a few drinks; however, it is noted that he rarely, if ever, drank at the scientific meetings. It is also noted that on occasions he reportedly was not qualified to represent the Soviets at a particular conference. His papers rarely, if ever, were specific, or presented new data.

14-00000

Following are items of interest from selected documents in MOSKALEV's CRS dossier:

a. In 1961 PENKOVSKY identified a photo (with no name provided) as that of Col. Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEVSKIY, Air Force Col. and GRU officer in the Information Directorate of the GRU.

b. In December 1963 the FBI reported

c. In October 1963 MOSKALEV was a delegate to the IAEA Symposium on Neutron Irradiation, Brookhaven, Long Island, New York. Described by U.S. scientists as very sharp, MOSKALEV was a frequent commentator on other people's work and made a practice of denigrating their reports with respect to radiation lethality.

d. In October 1967 MOSKALEV participated in the Second International Symposium on Delayed Effects of Bone Seeking Radio Nuclides, Sun Valley, Idaho, arriving two days early. He

14-00000

travelled alone to Sun Valley and apparently was able to use his knowledge of the English language to get along on his own. Although he complained about not knowing much English, he admitted writing the English version of the paper he presented. MOSKALEV attempted to make propaganda of a paper by a West German scientist. A respected U.S. scientist said he frankly did not believe MOSKALEV's findings. MOSKALEV took copious notes on all papers, which indicated he understood what was going on. He also took many pictures with a 35 mm camera. From questions MOSKALEV asked, it was obvious that he knew English quite well. Although considerable time was spent arranging for MOSKALEV to visit a U.S. laboratory en route to his home, he took a different route, without telling anyone of his plans, and did not visit the lab.

14-00000

4. On 23 March 1977 several identification experts of the Disguise and Identification Section of OTS/GAD compared photos of the unidentified man with photos of Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEV from the FBI, British Liaison, and CRS. It was their opinion that MOSKALEV could very likely be identifiable with the unidentified man.

5. Page 59 of the book "Appointment in Dallas," shows an Identi-Kit Model composite of an individual who told the author in London in 1972 that he was involved in the assassination of President Kennedy. The composite of that individual (code name "Saul"), whose real name is unknown to the author, bears a striking resemblance to the photos of Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEV. According to the author "Saul" identified the picture shown in the Warren Commission Exhibit #237 as having been taken at the Russian Embassy in Mexico City, either in the foyer or just outside.

14-00000

6. The author of the aforementioned book, Hugh C. McDonald, is the inventor of the Identi-Kit and at one time was under contract to CIA in regard to the Identi-Kit. McDonald claims in his book that he met "Saul" at an office in CIA Headquarters sometime after the Bay of Pigs invasion, and that a colleague of McDonald told him that "Saul" was an assassin.

7. There are striking parallels between the backgrounds of "Saul" as given in McDonald's book, and MOSKALEV. For example:

"Saul" AGENCY MOSKALEV

Pg. 7 - CIA (allegedly) knew According to Office of Security, of Saul. McDonald said he first McDonald has been in touch with met Saul in CIA Hqs. CIA took CIA in relation to his Identi-Kit. picture of Saul that started His files states he was a McDonald's investigation. cleared source of LAFO/DCS - doi September 1969. (contract agent)

Pg. 59 - See Identi-Kit It is true that Mexico City Station composite of "Saul". took photos of "Saul" that McDonald claimed started his investigation.

Pg. 60/61 - McDonald states it CDH comment: See photos of was obvious that FBI and CIA Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEV. He were compromised at the very bears striking resemblance to top since both Agencies denied "Saul." knowledge of "Saul". No one wanted to hear anymore about him.

Helms, the DDP testified under oath that he didn't know "Saul."

14-00000

Pg. 69 - McDonald began his search Note MOSKALEV's scientific of "Saul" in 1970. It began, he background and travel. said, with a call from an uniden- He was in the U.K. in 68, 70, tified woman who arranged a meeting 71 and 72. Background is in London and told him she believed biophysics. the Russians had a germ warfare MOSKALEV's installation in Vozrozdenya, in (GRU) the Aral Sea. McDonald obtained contact BUBNOV/"specialized CIA approval to make contact. in chemical warfare".

Pg. 70 - In Germany in 1945 MOSKALEV was allegedly McDonald knew of 12 people imprisoned during war because (Poles, Czechs, Rumanians, of his German descent or for Germans, Scandinavians, 2 Russians) black market dealings. Could who feared and hated Russia. They he be a double agent? formed org. to observe, analyze, and report all future activities McDonald met Saul in London within Russia and Russia sphere July 72. MOSKALEV travel shows of control. Most had legitimate him in London Nov 72. jobs.

Pg. 71 - 24 Sept 70 McDonald left for London with "Saul's" picture. McDonald said both he and Saul were contract men for CIA. Saul did dangerous jobs for private interests.

Pg. 73 - McDonald learned that on Island of Vozrozdenya, Aral Sea, germ warfare was being planned against U.S. (Russians transmit germs in jet streams).

14-00000

Pg. 75 - McDonald showed photo MOSKALEV is known in international of Saul to man. Man asked if circles on the European continent McDonald's interest had to do as scientist. with murder of Pres. in 1963. McDonald said no, he wanted to talk to him (Saul) on business

Pg. 76 - By now McDonald was sure that "Saul" was reasonably well-known in highly specialized

Pg. 81 - McDonald says that co-relation between activity on Vozrozdenya and new types of influenza in U.S. is disturbingly exact.

Pg. 92. - Man told McDonald MOSKALEV was delegate to 2nd in summer of 1970 on outskirts International Congress on of Gormisch, that he was dying Radiation Protection, Brighton, from radiation sickness. He was U.K. 3-8 May 70. flown to Vozrozdenya where he was lead to believe there was hospital that specialized in cases of radiation sickness and he would be looked after by famous doctors. Was interviewed by 3 Russian specialists: Emile KROPTATE Peter GORSACH Marion LENTZEN

14-00000

Pg. 95 - At hospital was MOSKALEV's middle name is orderly by name of Ivan. There Ivanovich; so is BUBNOV's. were other young interns, Could this have been MOSKALEV? orderlies, etc., there.

Pg. 99 - Some months before Kennedy was killed, an inquiry was being circulated, about this man (Saul). Someone wanted to contact him. Word went out that someone needed his services.

Pg. 109 - An alleged former (McDonald called Kimsey) Agency employee/said the scheme which "Saul" described to kill