2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

14-00000
104-10228-10045

DATE: 10 OCT 62

ROUTING:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

INFO: DDP, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CAL, FI, FI/INT 2, WH 7, S/C 2

PRIORITY: ROUTINE

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: KINGSTON

ACTION: TFW 10

SUBJECT: RE Vitting (charts weak)

REF: A. DIR 48852 (GM-184508)
B. KNGS 0202 (IN. 32658)

No CB Reset Value. Destroy.

H/I this copy indicates Branch may find as indicated.

Marked None required

IN 37423

DIR INFO WAVE CITE KNGS 0208

GYROSE AMBUD

1. COS BELIEVES HIS REF B APPRAISAL JAMAICAN POLITICAL CLIMATE RE ESTABLISHMENT AMBUD DELEGATION HERE CORRECT. JAMAICAN GOVT WANTS NOT BE OVERTLY INVOLVED IN COLD WAR AND OUT OF CONCERN FOR SAFETY LARGE JAMAICAN COMMUNITY CUBA WILL MAKE STRENUOUS EFFORT TO STAY OUT. HOWEVER THEY WILL HELP COVERTLY WHEREVER POSSIBLE. ANY ATTEMPT INVOLVE JAMAICAN GOVT AGAINST ITS WILL AT THIS TIME WOULD RESULT IN NET LOSS OF COOPERATION NOW AND IN FUTURE. STATION REGARDS INCREASING COOPERATION OF RUABBE SERVICE IN CUBAN OBJECTIVES OF CONSIDERABLE VALUE.

2. IF HQS BELIEVES AMBUD REP SHOULD VISIT JAMAICA TO TEST POLITICAL CLIMATE IN GOVT, STATION WOULD CONCUR MOST RELUCTANTLY IN. WILL (PRO) WITH FRANK (DAZ) SILVEIRA DURING CARIBBEAN GAME'S WHOM GOVT WANTED TO THROW OUT FOR HIS STATEMENTS TO PRESS ABOUT PROPOSED ESTABLISHMENT AMBUD REPRESENTATION HERE. IN ANY EVENT STATION WOULD INSIST NO PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENTS PRECEDE JAMAICAN GOVT RULING. SHOULD GOVT REJECT AMBUD FOLLOWING ADVANCE PUBLICITY THIS COULD BE MAJOR VICTORY FOR CUBAN CONSULATE, SHOT IN ARM TO FACING "FRIENDS OF CUBA COMMITTEE" (COMPRISING LOCAL COMMUNISTS AND RAS TAFARIS), AND GIFT TO BUDDING NEW COMMUNIST FRONT "SOCIALIST PARTY OF JAMAICA".

3. SINCE STATION COULD NOT PLAUSIBLY DENY RESPONSIBILITY FOR AMBUD TO RUABBE AND GOVT OPPOSED TO USE OF JAMAICA FOR COUNTER REVOLUTIONARY PURPOSE AGAINST CUBA, COS BELIEVES IT ADVANTAGEOUS TO KUBARK AND ODYOKE FOR AMBUD STAY OUT OF JAMAICA UNTIL SENTIMENT CHANGES.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: *SUBJ KNGS CONCURRENCE, SUGGESTED WAVE SEND AMBUD REP TO TEST LOCAL GOVT CLIMATE FOR PROPOSED DELEG AND REPORT RESPONSE AMBUD/1.

FORM 1389
USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.
