14-00000

104-10215-10151 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

PROCESSING
SECRET

ACCOM-
ACTION
PUSHED

MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED

Action Required: Please Record Amendment

References:
A. UFGA-17702, dtd 11 Sept 1964
(AMLILAC Progress Report)

B. UFGA-17558, dtd 2 Sept 1964
(MOC)

1. Transmitted herewith are three (3) copies of an amended MOC for Subject. This amendment has been written to provide Subject a raise in salary from $150.00 net per month to $200.00 net.

2. Subject now has a total of three dependents other than himself as is stated in the attached MOC amendment.

Attachments:
Amended MOC - H/W
IDEN Sheet - USC

Distribution:
3 - Addressee w/atts.

DATE TYPED: 21 Sept 64
DATE DISPATCHED: SEP 25 1964
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: UFGA-17818
HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER: 201-332676

---

14-00000

SECRET

MEMORANDUM OF ORAL COMMITMENT
TO: Chief, Special Affairs Staff
FROM: Chief of Station, JMWAVE
SUBJECT: Engagement of IDEN A 201-332676

1. Tax and Project Charge. The Subject individual has been engaged under oral contract for use under TYPIC and is to be charged against Fl contract cantor. The effective date of the oral contract is 1 September 1964 and it shall continue until terminated by either party upon fifteen days actual notice.

2. Security Approval. The appropriate security approval to utilize Subject is requested and has been obtained. POA reinstated 26 June 1964 per UFGW-3997 dtd 8 July 1964.

3. Citizenship. The Subject is a foreign national and was born on 6 May 1939 at Pinar del Rio, Cuba and resides at IDEN B.

4. Compensation. Commencing on the effective date of this agreement, Subject will be paid compensation at the rate of $207.52 per month. Such payments to be made following completion of satisfactory service.

5. Taxes. Subject will be obligated to pay U.S. income tax. Taxes will be acted on the above stated paid compensation. Subject is eligible for Social Security. #IDEN C Subject is married and has a total of dependents other than himself. Subject's dependents are residing in the U.S., U.S. possessions, Canada, Mexico, the Canal Zone, or the Republic of Panama.

6. Quarters and/or Subsistence. The Subject will not be furnished quarter and subsistence.

7. Operational Expenses. When properly authorized, Subject will be reimbursed for:

a. Operational travel including mileage claims for official use of his personal automobile.

b. Operational hotel expenses, meals, telephone calls, etc.

8. Other Commitments. Bonus. With prior approval of the Chief of Station, a bonus is authorized for outstanding performance in the line of duty. The amount of the bonus will be commensurate with the risks taken and the results which were achieved; amount not to exceed $100.00 per any single bonus payment. In the event of Subject's death in the line of duty, an amount not to exceed $5,000.00 will be paid to Subject's estate.

9. Contingent Obligations. No commitments other than those stated above have been made to the Subject.

SIGNED:
Frederick
Field Contract Officer

REVIEWED:
Joseph Dogan
Approving Officer

---

SECRET

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT
TO UFGA-17818

IDEN Sheet
IDEN A - Juan Francisco BLANCO Fernandez
IDEN B - 6831 SW 6th Street, Miami - Florida
IDEN C - SS# 265 - 74 - 1626

201-332676
