14-00000

104-10186-10021 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992.

FILE NO.

FILE NO. SECRET

ACTION ADVANCE COPY

FILE: VR, WH-8, CE, CI/OPS, FI, CE/EC-2, FI/ENT.2, CI/BA

SECRET 191645Z CITE SAN SALVADOR 6756
JMWAVE INFO DIRECTOR
REFS: A. SAN SALVADOR 6727 (32525)
B. SAN SALVADOR 6711 (20433)

SUBJECT REF A NOT YET LOCATED BY NATIONAL GUARD BUT STATION WOULD LIKE AMMUG-1 TO STAND BY IF POSSIBLE FOR THIS AND OTHER OPERATIONAL POSSIBILITIES INVOLVING DGI TRAINED SALVADORANS KNOWN TO AMMUG-1.

2. AT OUR REQUEST JUSLOOP-1 HAS ORDERED ARREST OF JOSE REHBERTO CARRILLO CALDERON (201-150959). STATION PASSED CARRILLO'S ADDRESS IN AHUACHAPAN. PLAN IS TO HAVE CARRILLO BROUGHT TO ISOLATED NATIONAL GUARD HEADQUARTERS IN SAN SALVADOR WHERE HE WILL BE INTERROGATED AND RECRUITMENT ATTEMPTED FOR JOINT OPERATION AGAINST PCES.

3. ALEJANDRO GOMEZ MONTANO (201-731265) IS SUBJECT OF REF B RECRUITMENT INDUCEMENT LETTER. WAS ARRESTED BY POLICE ON 29 MARCH 1967 FOR NOT POSSESSING LEGAL IDENTIFICATION CARD. UNILATERAL AGENT JUMUD-13 CANNOT PROMISE THAT GOMEZ CAN BE DETAINED ANY LONGER SINCE LEGAL HEARING HAS BEEN HELD AND HE IS TO BE RELEASED AS SOON AS RELATIVES

19 APR 1967 48874

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

PAGE 2 SAN SALVADOR 6756 SECRET

POST NOMINAL BOND. IMMINENT RELEASE EXPECTED. JUMUD-13 SAID HE THOUGHT HE COULD ARREST GOMEZ AGAIN 15 DAYS AFTER RELEASE AND HOLD HIM IN JAIL OVER WEEKEND TO ALLOW STATION TO MAKE RECRUITMENT PITCH. JUMUD-13, HOWEVER, NOT VERY DEFINITE IN HIS OFFER AND SINCE HE HAS NOT BEEN THE MOST EFFECTIVE AGENT IN THE PAST, STATION PREFERS COMPLETELY UNILATERAL PITCH. AS SOON AS GOMEZ IS RELEASED AND RELOCATED, WE WILL REQUEST AMMUG-1 PRESENCE SAN SALVADOR TO MAKE UNILATERAL PITCH. IF IT BECOMES NECESSARY TO FALL BACK ON JOINT RECRUITMENT PITCH IN JAIL, AMMUG-1'S SERVICES WILL STILL BE NEEDED.

SECRET
