1 104-10069-10120

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
8010-104

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum

TO: Chief, Contact Division DATE: 31 August 1962
ATTN: Support Branch (Crowley)
FROM: Chief, Minneapolis Office

SUBJECT: Cuban Refugee Group

1. Enclosed are three names provided by George Hauer of Cleveland, Ohio. These apparently are the leaders of the Cuban group which you and I have discussed in some detail. For the record, Hauer got in touch with me because we had some rather extensive debriefing sessions in 1959, and apparently he prefers to continue that relationship for the present. Headquarters' records will show, however, that he was interviewed by Gene Rittenburg in September 1960.

2. The Cubans listed on the enclosure are the leaders of a small group which is shuttling back and forth to Cuba for the purpose of establishing reception groups, taking in medical supplies, ammunition and weapons, and to bring out other Cubans who wish to leave the country. As you know from our discussions, they are seeking help in the form of supplies, etc. Hauer understands that no help will be given without some measure of control by our Agency, and he agreed to provide the names for Agency consideration. The third man on the list is in Cuba at the present time. Hauer specifically requested that we treat any on-the-street investigation with great care.

3. Please expedite any checking you might do and give me your expression of interest as soon as possible. Hauer is not an exceptionally patient man, and I certainly expect to receive an inquiry from him in the near future. I believe he is genuinely motivated and quite capable, and in his present position of recruiting executive personnel for Ernst & Ernst he could be quite useful to the Agency.

VERNON R. SANDO

VRSando/jr
Enclosure

SECRET SENSITIVE

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

esto Rodriguez y Moreno
Cities Service Station
Marathon Shores, Florida
married three children, owner of gas station

Mariano
157 Street
Son of
inent and reputable Havana baker, Augustin Batista:

Victor Paneque.
mer July, 20th Commander
Presently in Cuba:

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM
SECRET-SENSITIVE
