```markdown
(104-10188-10012)

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL PLATTENED AT CF HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: KDAFGHAN
INCLUSIVE DATES: 6 Jan 1965 - 2 Oct 1972
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: LAD/DDO

ROOM: 3034
DELETIONS, IF ANY:

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM
DATE RECEIVED: 26 MAY 78
DATE RETURNED: 5 July 78
DATE RECEIVED: 21 JUL 1978
DATE RETURNED: 12/20/78
DATE RECEIVED: 12/21/78
REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME): DAN HARDWAY, D. HARDWAY, HARDWAY, HARDWAY
SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL: Dan Hardway, Dan Hardway, Hardway, Hardway

THIS COPY IS NOT FOR RELEASE.
NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.

3-82
OP-61
(3-76)
RETIRED
Older
17-131

---

14-00000
SECRET

MATERIAL PLATTENED AT CF HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: KDAFGHAN
INCLUSIVE DATES: 6 Jan 1965 - 2 Oct 1972
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: LAD/DDO

ROOM: 3034
DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE RECEIVED: 26 MAY 78
DATE RETURNED: 5 July 78
DATE RECEIVED: 21 JUL 1978
DATE RETURNED: 12/20/78
DATE RECEIVED: 12/21/78
REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME): DAN HARDWAY, D. HARDWAY, HARDWAY, HARDWAY
SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL: Dan Hardway, Dan Hardway, Hardway, Hardway

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.
3-82
OP-61
(3-76)
RETIRED
Older
17-131

---

14-00000
Project RENEWAL Requests:
For
LIONION
1 of 4
Older
LE
17-131

---

14-00000
FORM 2593
2-66
CONFIDENTIAL

NOTICE

THIS FILE HAS BEEN PROCESSED AND RETIRED. DO NOT
ADD ANY DOCUMENTS TO THIS FOLDER. FORWARD CS
DOCUMENTS THAT SHOULD BE INCLUDED IN THIS FOLDER
TO IP/RPU GE-58.

NOTICE
CONFIDENTIAL
17-131

---

14-00000
FROM: (Headquarters component) WH/1
TO: (Station/Base) MEXICO CITY
SUBJECT AND PROJECT FILE REQUEST AND FIELD NOTIFICATION OF ACTION

INFORMATION FOR REQUESTERS
ITEM 3 - ALL FILE TITLES MUST BE STERILE SINCE THEY WILL APPEAR ON THE FIELD COMES AND ON MACHINE LISTS.
ITEM 6 - ALL REMARKS MUST BE STERILE.
ITEM 7 AND 8 - USE FIRST THREE LETTERS OF DISPATCH SYMBOLS FOR FIELD STATIONS AND LIST HEADQUARTERS ELEMENTS ACCORDING TO ESTABLISHED NUMERIC CODES.

ITEM 10 - ENTER OLD TITLE WHEN AMENDING A TITLE. CITE ANY FRTS, SUCH AS 201 OR PROJECT FILES THAT ARE RELATED TO THE FILE COVERED BY THIS REQUEST. ITEM 10 MAY ALSO BE USED TO GIVE REASONS FOR THE ACTION BEING REQUESTED, TO IDENTIFY THE TYPE OF MATERIAL TO BE PLACED IN A FILE OR TO MAKE OTHER EXPLANATORY REMARKS.
ITEM 11 - A RECORDS OFFICER MUST SIGN ALL FILE ACTION REQUESTS. CONSULT YOUR HMO ON ANY PROBLEMS THAT ARISE.

TYPE OF FILE: PROJECT
COMPLETE ITEMS 1 THROUGH 12.
FROM: (Division) VID
INFORMATION CONCERNING FILE
1. DISPOSITION: IP/ARD
2. COUNTRY NUMBER: 50
3. FILE TITLE (SPECIFIC SUBJECT PROJECTS LIMITED TO 15 SPACES): KDAFGHAN Development & Plans
4. CATEGORY: HUMINT
5. SUBJECT NUMBER: 122/1
6. CODE FILE NUMBER: 06-50
7. SUBJECT NUMBER: 122/1
8. ANALYSIS ACTION: OPEN FILE
9. ACTION REQUIRED: CLOSE FILE (INDICATE DISPOSITION) - RETAIN
10. AMEND FILE TITLE: REOPEN
11. DESTRUCTION RECOMMENDED: THRU DATE
12. REMARKS (FOR FIELD DISTRIBUTION): N/A
13. INTERESTED STATIONS (PROJECTS ONLY):
14. INTERESTED HEADQUARTERS DESK (LIST ACTION DESK FIRST):
15. FILES ACTION: HOLD IN CS FILES
16. CHARGE PERMANENTLY TO OFFICER & DESK:
17. RESTRICTED: UNRESTRICTED
18. COMMENTS (INCLUDE SPECIAL HEADQUARTERS ROUTING INSTRUCTIONS): PREPARE FOLDER AND SEND TO REQUESTER
19. VERIFIED:
20. ENDORSEMENT:
21. SIGNATURE OF BRANCH/DESK: A. Corner
22. COORDINATION: SIGNATURE OF BRANCH/DESK: B. (WHEN APPLICABLE)
23. EFFECTIVE DATE: 1 March 1973
24. RID APPROVAL: REQUEST APPROVED BY T
25. FORM 12-63 812 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS MFG 12-65
26. CODE FILE NUMBER: 06-50-122/1
27. 1-CS COPY

SECRET

---

14-00000
KDARGAN
FORMER CRYPTONYM: LIONION
DATE OF CRYPTONYM CHANGE: 20106172
CRYPTOMYM CHANGE AUTHORIZED BY: ARMSTRONG
COMPONENT: RID/AN
(SC OR POD SECTION CHIEF)
CABLE OR DOCUMENT REFERENCE (FROM ITEM 10 OF FORM 812): HMMS-7138
N-0--1-0-8
THIS IS AN RID NOTICE OF A CHANGE IN FILE TITLE CRYPTONYM CAUSED BY COMPROMISE. IT IS TO BE PLACED IN THE FILE INDICATED AND TO REMAIN THEREIN AS A PERMANENT OFFICIAL CS RECORD.
S-E-C-R-E-T
FILE IN 050-006-122/01

---

14-00000
DISPATCH
FROM: Chief, WH Division
TO: Chief of Station, Mexico City
SUBJECT: Termination of Project KDAFGHAN
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES:

INFO:
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
PROCESSING ACTION:
BARRED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK CAN JUDGE INDEXING

The KDAFGHAN Project was officially terminated on 22 September 1972. The reason for termination was VWBLANKET contamination.

Distribution: 2-COS, Mexico City
Edward K. LAUBOCKER
E2, IMPDET
CL BY: 055272
DATE: 2 OCT 1972
HMMW-19157
HOS FILE NUMBER: 50-6-122/1

CS COPY
CROSS REFERENCE TO DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER:
FORM 53 USE PREVIOUS EDITION. MFG. 11-69

ORIGINATING OFFICE: WH/1
OFFICE SYMBOL: WH/FI
TYPIST: md (27 Sept 72)
COORDINATING OFFICER'S NAME: John C. Murray
RELEASING OFFICER'S SIGNATURE: John C. Murray
OFFICE SYMBOL: C/WH/1
DATE: 27 Sept 72
EXT: 6954
COORDINATING OFFICER'S NAME: Joint RMi
DATE: 27 Sept 72
OFFICE SYMBOL: A: WH/Plans
DATE: 27 Sept 72
COORDINATING OFFICER'S NAME: Perry Smith
DATE: 27 Sept 72

---

14-00000
SECRET
20 September 1972

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
SUBJECT: Termination of Project KDAFGHAN

1. Project XDAFGHAN, approved for FY 72 and FY 73 in the amount of $11,950 each year, covered Mexico City Station's observation post targetted against the Cuban Embassy and Consulate in Mexico. OP operators KDAFGHAN-1 and his dependent mother KDAFGHAN-2, Cuban exiles resident in Mexico since 1960, were the only human assets in the project.

2. As a result of the JMYAK damage assessment and other security considerations it was decided that the project should be terminated and the agents resettled in another country. DIRECTOR 285255 amended the project for FY 72 to a total of $20,950 to provide for the termination and resettlement of the agents. The agents were terminated in August 72 and are now being resettled in Spain. DIRECTOR 300167 concurred in terminating the project as of 31 August 72.

3. In view of the developments in paragraph 2, above, WH/FI recommends approval of this termination request.

Robert D. Wiecha
C/WH/FI

---

14-00000
SECRET
PROJECT ACTION: KDAFGHAN
TYPE OF ACTION: TERMINATION
DIVISION: Western Hemisphere
FIELD STATION: Mexico City
BRANCH: WH/1
CASE OFFICER: John Davis
DATE: 25 Aug 72

ORGANIZATIONAL ELEMENT:
C/WH/1 John C. Murray 29 Aug 72
C/WH/COG Lawrence Sternfield 29 Aug 72
C/WH/B&F John T. Boeck 30/8/72
C/WH/SS Richard B. Wright 31. AUG. 72
C/WH/FI Robert D. Wiecha 1 Sept 72
C/WH/Plans John S. Wilson 21 SEP 1972

CONCURRENCES OF OTHER COMPONENTS
(Type in Organizational Element And Name Below Only When Concurrence Obtained by Originating Element.)

APPROVAL
PERIOD:
FROM: FY 19
TO: FY 19
AMT THIS ACTION: $9,900
TOTAL FUNDS AUTHORIZATION: $23,900
APPROVING AUTHORITY: C/WHD
DATE: 22/9/72

---

14-00000
SECRET
25 August 1972

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
SUBJECT: Project KDAFGHAN Termination

1. A request for termination action is contained in paragraph four, herein.

2. Project KDAFGHAN is a support project which provides the Mexico City Station with fixed photographic and physical surveillance of the Cuban Embassy and Consulate in Mexico City. The objectives of the project are to furnish photographic coverage of the Cuban installation during daylight hours, to assist the Station in compiling dossiers on officials of the installation, and to fulfill various requirements in support of other Station Cuban operations. The KDAFGHAN project encompasses two assets, KDAFGHAN-1 and KDAFGHAN-2, who have been associated with the project since 1962.

3. While this project may be of some value to the FBI (FBI compares KDAFGHAN photographs with the photographs of known leaders of extremist groups in the U.S. as well as with photographs of persons who are subjects of identification orders prepared on badly wanted fugitives in the U.S.), it is of little value, as presently constituted, to Mexico City Station. There are other means of obtaining photographs of PCS and TDY Cuban personnel.

4. In early 1972 the Station mounted a thorough CI review of all Cuban operations in an attempt to improve their overall security. Although KDAFGHAN-1 passed the SGSWIRL with no apparent deception, his Cuban exile status, the long period of time he has been operating his OP site in close proximity to the Cuban Embassy, and the potential (perhaps immediate) danger presented by his and KDAFGHAN-2's Cuban relatives made it clear that the agents should be terminated.

E 2 IMPDET
CL BY 055272
WN-SISM

---

14-00000
SECRET
2

In view of the aforementioned, as well as security considerations in the JMYAK case, WH/1 requests approval to terminate this project effective 31 July 1972. In order to meet termination commitments, project KDAFGHAN was amended on 30 June 1972 by DIRECTOR 285255 in the amount of $9,000, increasing the project's authorization from $11,950 to $20,950 for FY 1972. KDAFGHAN-1 and KDAFGHAN-2 were terminated on 1 August 1972. There were no security incidents during the termination.

John C. Murray
C/WH/1

---

100000
Murray/md
19_1972
SECRET

CITE DIRECTOR 285255
IMMEDIATE MEXICO CITY
MYFAT PLJMYAK
REF: MEXICO CITY 20301 (IN 649910)

1. IN ORDER PROVIDE FOR COSTS OF AGENT TERMINATIONS FOLLOWING PROJECTS ARE AMENDED FOR FY 72:
A. KDTUCK $8,451 (NEW TOTAL $48,431)
B. KDULSTER 10,500 (NEW TOTAL 20,250)
C. KDADORN 7,136 (NEW TOTAL 22,856)
D. KDAFGHAN 9,900 (NEW TOTAL 20,850)
E. KDFACTOR 9.844 (NEW TOTAL 28,944)
F. KDACROBAT 7,728 (NEW TOTAL 44,197)
G. KPVAULT 6,296 (NEW TOTAL 15,420)
H. KDCALVERT 80,950 (NEW TOTAL 160,950)
I. KULADDER 1,940 (NEW TOTAL 17,552)
J. KDABSCOND 3,150 (NEW TOTAL 24,785)
K. KDADAGE 21,354 (NEW TOTAL 72,921)

(CONTINUED)

---

14-00000
TOTAL COPIES:
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PAGE 2
L. KDRAIL 2,400 (NEW TOTAL 10,490)
M. KDDACIFY 1,800 (NEW TOTAL 7,800)
N. KDSALEM 8,800 (NEW TOTAL 31,200)

2. FILE: 50-6-128/1, 50-8-80/1, 50-6-00/1, 50-8-122/1, 50-6-74/ 50-6-114/1, 50-6-58/1, 50-6-72/1, 50-6-131/6 50-125-27/1, 50-8-194/ 50-6-126/1, 50-6-110/1, 50-6-38/L
5X-2 APOIR WN-S

END OF MESSAGE

COORDINATING OFFICERS:
THEODORE G. SHACKLEY
C/WHD

AUTHENTICATION:
SECRET

---

14-001
DISPATCH.
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
Chief of Station, Mexico City
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
SUBJECT: Project KDAFGHAN Renewal for FY 1974 and FY 1973.
ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES:

The Project KDAFGHAN Renewal for the period 1 July 1971 to 30 June 1973 was approved by the Chief, Western Hemisphere Division on 29 June 1971 in the amount of $11,950 for FY 1972 and $11,950 for FY 1973.

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - COS, Mexico City
Internal Dist:
1 - RI
1 - Chrono

Roger W. BICEGO

CS COPY
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: 15749
DATE: 2 JUL 1971
HOS FILE NUMBER: 50-6-122/1

ORIGINATING OFFICE: WH/1
TYPIST: His/kk/30 June 71
COORDINATING OFFICER'S NAME: John C. Murray
RELEASING OFFICER'S SIGNATURE: John C. Murray

FORM 103 53 USE PREVIOUS EDITION.
OFFICE SYMBOL: C/WH/1
DATE: 30.6-71

---

14-00000
PROJECT ACTION: KDAFGHAN
TYPE OF ACTION: RENEWAL
DIVISION: Western Hemisphere
FIELD STATION: Mexico City
BRANCH: WH/1
CASE OFFICER: John Davis
DATE: 16 June 71

ORGANIZATIONAL ELEMENT:
C/WH/1 John C. Murray 16/6/71
C/WH/COG Lawrence Sternfield 17 June 71
C/WH/B&F D. Healy 17 June 71
C/WH/SS Richard B. Wright 23-71
C/WH/FI Richard S. Welch 6/25/21
C/WH/Plans John R. Cassidy 28 JUN 1971

CONCURRENCES OF OTHER COMPONENTS
(Type in Organizational Element and Name Below Only When Concurrence Obtained by Originating Element.)

APPROVAL
PERIOD:
FROM: 1 July 71
TO: 30 June 73
AMT THIS ACTION: $11,950
TOTAL FUNDS AUTHORIZATION: $11,950
APPROVING AUTHORITY: C/WHD
DATE: 29 JUN 1971

---

00000
SECRET
KDAFGHAN - Mexico City, Mexico - FI/CI Support Project
Targetted Against the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City.
FY 1972 Cost: $11,950. FY 1973 Cost: $11,950.

KDAFGHAN Project Finance History
APPROVED OBLIGATED
FY 1970 $11,165 $11,165
FY 1971 $11,094 $11,094

Purpose
KDAFGHAN is a support project which provides the Mexico City Station with fixed photographic and physical surveillance of the Cuban Embassy and Consulate in Mexico City. The objectives of the project are to furnish photographic coverage of the Cuban installation during daylight hours, to assist the Station in compiling dossiers on officials of the installation and to fulfill various requirements in support of other Station Cuban operations.

Description
The KDAFGHAN Project continues to encompass two assets, KDAFGHAN-1 and KDAFGHAN-2, who have been associated with the project since 1962. Both agents continue to furnish information on a timely basis on the personalities and activities of the Cuban target. A description of the individual assets is set forth below:

a. KDAFGHAN-1 (201-288248): A Cuban lawyer in exile in Mexico who left Cuba in 1960. He has been the principal agent of the KDAFGHAN Project since 1962. KDAFGHAN-1's cover is that of a translator and would-be writer. Family holdings from his deceased father also provide financial backstopping. All photographic coverage of the main Embassy gate through final printing and mounting is processed by KDAFGHAN-1.

b. KDAFGHAN-2 (201-305604): KDAFGHAN-2 is the mother of KDAFGHAN-1. Her cover is that of a dependent mother. KDAFGHAN-2 acts as KDAFGHAN-1's assistant and fill-in whenever he is away from the basehouse.

---

14-00000
SECRET
Changes

The only major change during the project year was the installation of a TV monitor/robot camera combination during October 1970, the month designated as "Cuban month." This added coverage contributed to the compilation of target studies on several Cuban officials. These studies will be used as a starting point for future operations, namely the recruitment/defection of these officials.

Accomplishments

1. The main value of the production of the KDAFGHAN Project has been in establishing the pattern of various Cuban Embassy employees. The monitoring has also revealed which automobiles the various employees usually drive. Photographic coverage of the visitors to the main gate of the Cuban Embassy and logs of the movement of Cuban Embassy personnel have proved very useful in identifying new Cuban PCS employees in Mexico. Normally the Station has been able to match movements of new and old employees during the initial period when duties and contacts were being turned over to the new employees and so identify their duties. KDAFGHAN has provided current photographs of TDY and transiting Cuban officials and Headquarters has often provided positive identifications of these persons. Norberto Hernandez, a DGI headquarters officer visiting Mexico, was identified in this way.

2. The Station utilizes KDAFGHAN photographic coverage and logs to verify the visits of Station assets to the Cuban Embassy.

3. KDAFGHAN also provides coverage of what appears to be American visitors to the Cuban Embassy main gate. In the case of Americans who arrive in automobiles bearing U.S. license plates, the license plate number, car description, and sterile copies of photographs are given to the FBI for identification. A significant result of the KDAFGHAN operation included a photographic of a specific individual - an old FBI target - who had been seen visiting the Cuban installation.

4. KDAFGHAN also provided useful coverage for the KDACOUSTIC-3 operation, an operation aimed at the recruitment or defection of a DGI officer. This coverage enabled the Station to determine KDACOUSTIC-3's movements, an important factor in timing the calls and visits of our access agents. This use of the operation should prove extremely valuable during the coming year since a more aggressive recruitment program against the Cuban target is planned.

---

4-00000
SECRET
3
Problems and Security

No agent control or operational problems have been reported. Neither were there any security problems encountered during the period. Gerald D. FAHLANGER continues to be the Case Officer and handler of KDAFGHAN-1. FAHLANGER has met and could continue to meet KDAFGHAN-2 in an emergency. The alternate Case Officer is Terence D. SISTONE who meets KDAFGHAN-1 when FAHLANGER is not available. Both Case Officers are known to the assets in alias, and both meet KDAFGHAN-1 in a safehouse. During February 1971 the safehouse was changed in compliance with normal operational security.

Meetings are generally held once a week. More frequent contact can be made by telephone. In an emergency, anyone can call KDAFGHAN-1 at his home and say they are a friend of "Pepe Simon." KDAFGHAN-1 will reply "I haven't seen him since last Christmas." KDAFGHAN-1 speaks English.

Coordination:

The Ambassador is aware of our efforts against the Cuban target in general. He has not been specifically briefed on this operation.

Future Plans:

The Station is constantly examining the possibility of an audio installation at the main gate of the Cuban Embassy. A successful audio device would serve, in most cases, to identify the individuals who are photographed by KDAFGHAN-1 since they normally identify themselves to the gate house attendant. There are a few Station assets who have occasional access to the gate house, and it is conceivable that one of them could place a quick plant device, provided security conditions are favorable. The Station currently has under consideration a recruitment effort against a lower level employee of the Cuban Embassy who would be of tremendous help in such an operation.

Costs:

1. General: This renewal request is for FY 1972 in the amount of $11,950 and FY 1973 in the amount of $11,950.

2. Source of Funds: Project KDAFGHAN is included in the Western Hemisphere Division's Operating Program in the amount of $10,844 for FY 1972 and $10,844 for FY 1973. The additional Funds required are to be absorbed from within the WH Division allocation.

---

14-00000
3. Project Budget: The following is a cost breakdown for the preceding, current, and next fiscal years:

|              | FY 1971 Obligations (Estimated) | FY 1972 Request | FY 1973 Projection | FY 1974 Projection |
|--------------|-----------------------------------|-------------------|--------------------|--------------------|
| KDAFGHAN-1 Salary | $4,800                           | $5,088*           | $5,088             | $5,088             |
| KDAFGHAN-2 Salary | 1,920                           | 2,112*           | 2,112             | 2,112             |
| Christmas Bonus | 560                           | 600*           | 600             | 600             |
| KDAFGHAN Basehouse Rent (Observation Post) | 1,200                           | 1,200           | 1,200             | 1,200             |
| KDAFGHAN Safehouse (for Station meetings with KDAFGHAN-1) | 864                           | 1,200           | 1,200             | 1,200             |
| Utilities for Safehouse and Basehouse | 500                           | 500           | 500             | 500             |
| Miscellaneous Expenses (film, paper, chemicals, stationary) | 1,250                           | 1,250           | 1,250             | 1,250             |
| TOTALS         | $11,094                           | $11,950           | $11,950             | $11,950             |

*Increases reflect the "cost-of-living" granted effective 1 January 1971.

4. Foreign Currency: There are no special requirements for foreign currency.

5. Commitments: Upon termination, the agents will be paid a termination bonus not to exceed three month's salary.

6. Funding: Case officers pay the assets directly. The funds are accounted for with end receipts obtained from the assets. KDAFGHAN-1 has sufficient private income to cover the JKLANCE funds he receives.

7. Accountability: All funds are accounted for by receipts and/or certifications as required by Agency regulations.

Annexes:
None

---

14-10000
DISPATCH
SECRET
Chief of Station, Mexico City
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
SUBJECT: Project LIONION Renewal FY 1971
ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

1. The Project LIONION Renewal for FY 1971 was approved by the Chief, Western Hemisphere Division on 26 June 1970 in the amount of $11,094. A copy of the Renewal is being forwarded by split transmission.

Douglas F. TASSELL

Attachments:
A) Left Side h/w
B) Center u/s/c via split transmission
C) Right Side u/s/c via split transmission

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - COS, Mexico City w/att h/w & u/s/c via split transmission

CS COPY
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: HMMW-17977
DATE: 30 June 1970
HOS FILE NUMBER: 50-6-122/1

ORIGINATING OFFICE: WH/1
TYPIST: nh
COORDINATING OFFICER'S NAME: John C. Murray
RELEASING OFFICER'S SIGNATURE: John C. Murray

FORM 103 53 USE PREVIOUS EDITION.
OFFICE SYMBOL: C/WH/1
DATE: 1 Jul 90

---

14-00000
PROJECT ACTION: LIONION
TYPE OF ACTION: RENEWAL
DIVISION: Western Hemisphere Division
FIELD STATION: Mexico City
BRANCH: DESA
CASE OFFICER: Fred Kravcov
DATE: 24 June 70

ORGANIZATIONAL ELEMENT:
AC/WH/1 Charles M. Bounds
AC/WH/B&F Wyatt B. Thompson
C/WH/SS Richard B. Wright
C/WH/FI Richard S. Welch
C/WH/Plans Robert B. Moore

CONCURRENCES OF OTHER COMPONENTS
(Type in Organizational Element and Name Below Only When Concurrence obtained by Originating Element.)

APPROVAL
PERIOD:
FROM: 1 July 1970
TO: 30 June 1971
AMT THIS ACTION: 11,094
TOTAL FUNDS AUTHORIZATION: 11,094
APPROVING AUTHORITY: C/WHD
DATE: 29 JUN 1970

---

14-00000
LIONION - Mexico City, Mexico - FI/CI Support Project
Targetted Against the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City.
FY 1971 Cost $11,094.

|        | Approved | Obligated |
|--------|----------|-----------|
| 1966   | $10,718  | $9,142    |
| 1967   | 11,328   | 11,590    |
| 1968   | 11,466   | 9,726     |
| 1969   | 11,258   | 10,803    |
| 1970   | 11,994   | 10,844 (Estimated)   |

Purpose:

The LIONION Project provides the Mexico City Station with fixed, selective photographic and physical surveillance of the Cuban Embassy and Cuban Consulate in Mexico City. It is designed to provide information in support of Priority A, paragraphs 2 and 4 of the current Operating Directive, that is, the Cuban target present in Mexico and the support rendered by Cubans in Mexico to exile and other leftist groups in Mexico.

Description:

1. The LIONION Project currently encompasses two agents, LIONION/1 and LIONION/2, a basehouse directly across from the Cuban compound, and a safehouse for meetings with Station Case Officers. The two agents furnish photographic coverage during daylight hours of the main entrance to the Cuban Embassy. In addition, on a spot basis, photographic coverage and visual surveillance of the Cuban Consulate entrance is possible. The agents also act as dispatchers for the unilateral LIEMBRACE surveillance team when the LIEMBRACE team is being used against Cuban target individuals. A description of the individual assets is set forth below.

2. LIONION/1 (201-288248): A Cuban lawyer in exile in Mexico who left Cuba in 1960. He has been the principal agent of the LIONION Project since 1962. LIONION/1's cover is that of a translator and would-be writer. Family holdings in Tampa, Florida, inherited from his deceased father also provide financial backstopping. LIONION/1 received his "immigrado" (permanent immigrant) status in 1965 and now has a good deal of immunity from harassment from Mexican immigration authorities. All photographic coverage of the main Embassy gate through final printing, cropping, and mounting is processed by LIONION/1. LIONION/1 and LIONION/2 maintain a log which indicates when a photograph was taken, and pertinent identifying data. License numbers of cars used by various Cuban Embassy personnel are recorded as well as license numbers of cars of unidentified persons visiting the Cuban Embassy.

3. LIONION/2 (201-305604): Mother of LIONION/1. Her cover is that of a dependent mother. As with LIONION/1, she has "immigrado" status and has been associated with the LIONION Project since 1962. LIONION/2 acts as LIONION/1's assistant and fill-in whenever he is away from the LIONION basehouse.

Changes:

During the project year, the pulse camera coverage of the Cuban Consulate entrance was discontinued. Little or no use was being made of the product from this camera. One reason for limited use was that there was no real way to readily fix the time--or the day-- a particular photo was taken. There were no other significant changes in the project during FY 1970.

Accomplishments:

1. The LIONION production for FY 1970 consisted almost entirely of photographic coverage of visitors to the Cuban Embassy main entrance and of logs of the movement of Cuban Embassy personnel and visitors. This proved very useful in identifying new Cuban Embassy PCS employees in Mexico. The monitoring also revealed which cars the various employees usually drove.

2. LIONION also took photographs of what appeared to be American visitors to the Cuban Embassy front gate. In the case of Americans who arrived in automobiles bearing U.S. license plates, the license plate numbers, car descriptions, and sterile copies of photographs were given to ENERGO for identification.

---

14-00000
-3-

3. The Station also used the LIONION photographic coverage and log to check on the reports of Mexican and other JKLANCE assets who claimed to have visited the Cuban Embassy. In the case of some assets, LIONION/1 was given a photograph of the agent and told to be particularly alert at certain times of certain days to confirm the agent's entry and exit. This proved particularly useful in checking AVDIME/1's story of contact with the Cubans. It also confirmed LIRELIC/1's visit to the Cuban Embassy at an early stage in Station recontact with LIRELIC/1.

Problems:

1. No agent control or operational problems have been reported. Neither were there any security problems encountered during the period. LIONION/1 was met in a safehouse on an average of once per week by Andrew E. PELLEMENT, in alias. Following PELLEMENT's departure in late May, Gerald D. FAHLANGER took over the responsibility for the LIONION Project. FAHLANGER, in alias, meets LIONION/1 approximately once per week. In January 1970, the Station had LIONION/1 change the safehouse used for meetings with Station officers. He signed a one-year lease on the new apartment, in alias. LIONION/1 uses the apartment on weekends and evenings to lend credence to the cover story he used in renting i.e., that he lives out-of-town and maintains this small apartment in Mexico City for use during his frequent visits.

2. Station visits to the LIONION basehouse were limited to three during the reporting period. These were made during non-daylight hours. LIONION/1 picked up the Station officer away from the LIONION basehouse area and drove the officer to the basehouse in LIONION/1's own car. The