14-00000

104-10221-10039

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

STURGIS, Frank Anthony

JAN 69

801-34225

JAN 67

--- Page 2 ---

SIGNAL CEN

MESSAGE 33-1

STAFF CONF AF9

INFO DIRECTOR

Moms EUR 8, LAS 014, E15/E6

IMMEDIATE GENEVA INFO IMMEDIATE KINSHASA, LISBON, PRETORIA.

UNINTEL ZIBET

REF GENEVA 35610 IN 417464 (BEING RELAYED KINSHASA LISBON PRETORIA)

APPRECIATE REF.

CAS:

STURGIS HAS BEEN PROMOTING A STORY INVOLVING A 2,000-MAN CUBAN GOVERNMENT IN EXILE IN ANGOLA FOR SEVERAL MONTHS AND WE EXPECT THAT REF IS A VARIATION OF THE SAME THEME. DO NOT ANTICIPATE NEED FOR ADDITIONAL DEBRIEFING BY ZIBET.

Further CONTACT WITH SUBJECT REF BY GENERAL OFFICER

INFO SOLICIT ADDEE COMMENTS.

NO FILE. E2 IMPDET.

ORIG: AF/HC/C (PARKILL X935439, COORD: LA/COG (SPEED), E/IB/P (WILDER C/AF/HC (KELLY), C/AF/OPS (KANE); AUTH: C/AF (POTTS); REL: C/E/ASE (AITKENT

DATE: 29 SEPTEMBER 1977

ORIG: S.PARKILL/SLS.

UNITAF/HC/G

EXT: 9154

C/CASE

RELEASING OFFICE

CLASSIFICATION SECRET

FORM LA/COG-SPEED (IN DRAFT

E/IB/P-WILDER (TELECOORD}

C/AF/HE 201-6242256

C/AF/OPS

CONG OFFICEES

C/AF AUTHENTICATING OFFI

E 2 IMPDET

CL BY: 0357649

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

CABLE BEC DISSEM BY

PERSON/UNIT. NOTIF

27 209/02

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTEO

ACTION UNITA

TOTAL COPIES 46

SECRET

vn DDOY 18/0ms €14

AF9 EPS/E62, EURE LAB

SES EI AZ 52

TOR: 29 28152 SE

REPRODUCTION BY OTH

IDBUING OFFICE IS:

PRECEDENT IN

GNVA

SECRET 2919122 SEP 77 STAFF

CITE GENEVA 35 618

TO IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR INFO IMMEDIATE LONDON,

NI ACT DIRECT OR

WNINTEL ZIBET

FIVE: STURGIS 201

ON 29 SEPT 77 AT 1830 HOURS LOCAL ONE GARY VAN DYK, WHO IDENTIFIED HIMSELF AS A BRITISH SUBJECT WHO WAS BORN IN JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA ON 25 MAY 1936 AND WHO SAID HE IS A LITERARY AGENT BY PROFESSION AND RESIDES AT REDKNOLL WALK, CHELSEA, SW-3, LONDON WALKED INTO US. MISSION, SUBJECT WHO IS STAYING AT HOTEL AMAT IN GENEVA ORIGINALLY CONTACTED DCM SO PENS UN WHO ASKED THAT COS INTERVIEW HIM.

SUBJECT GAVE THE FOLLOWING STORY WHICH ADMITTEDLY APPEARS DISJOINTED BUT MAY MAKE SENSE TO AFRICA DIVISION. ONE REASON FOR INCOHERENCY IS THAT SUBJECT WAS CONCERNED ABOUT THE STORY LEAKING TO OUTSIDERS I,E. THE PRESS AND WAS VERY RETICENT ABOUT NAMING NAMES OR DATES:

A. IN JUNE 1977 FRANK STURGIS (PRESUMABLY SAME PERSON OF WATERGATE FAME) CAME TO LONDON AND CONTACTED AN UNIDENTIFIED MEMBER OF F.N.L.A. THROUGH LATTER STURGIS

SECRET

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000

CABLE BEC DISSEN BY

PER

TOTAL COPIES

RUN BY

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER TI

ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIB

PERDON/UNIT NOTIFIED:

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SE

FACTION UNIT:

T 211787

EIA252

PAGE 02

STAFF

N 417464

TORI 2922152 SEP 2

HOPED TO MEET HOLDEN ROBERTO SUBJECT LEARNED OF THIS APPROACH AND SINCE SUBJECT SAYS HE IS A CLOSE FRIEND AND SUPPORTER OF DANIEL GI PENDA, HE PUT STURGIS IN TOUCH WITH VICTOR FERNANDEZ, SUBJECT SAYS THAT AT THAT TIME HE DID NOT KNOW WHO FRANK STURGIS WAS.

GNVA 35610

B. VICTOR FERNANDEZ WAS IDENTIFIED AS ONE OF THE PERSONS INVOLVED IN THE ABORTIVE COUP OF MAY 1977 IN ANGOLA. STURGIS TOLD FERNANDEZ THAT HE REPRESENTED A GROUP OF CUBAN EXILES AND WAS IN A POSITION TO MAKE AVAILABLE 2200 ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS WHO WOULD GO TO ANGOLA TO PARTICIPATE IN ANOTHER COUP TO OVERTHROW THE CURRENT ANGOLAN REGIME.

C. STURGIS AND FERNANDEZ REPORTEDLY SIGNED AN AGREEMENT IN LONDON WHEREBY STURGIS PLEDGED FINANCIAL AND MILITARY SUPPORT (ACCORDING TO SUBJECT FROM SOME LATIN AMERICAN GOVERNMENTS) AND AGREED AS TO WHO THE NEW MEMBERS OF THE GOVERNMENT IN EXILE (I.E. ANGOLA) WOULD BE.

D. GIPENDA, WHO AT THE TIME WAS IN LONDON, WAS SUSPICIOUS OF STURGIS BUT WENT ALONG WITH FERNANDEZ GETTING HELP FROM STURGIS. GIPENDA THEN WENT TO GENEVA WHERE HE HAS BEEN EVER SINCE IN AMAT HOTEL. GI PENDA HAS BEEN WAITING AROUND, ACCORDING

SECRET

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000

CABLE SEC DIESEM BY

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

DVANCE COPY ISSUE

TION UNIT

ONE

RF

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY:

ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHI

211787

EI AC 52

PAGE 03

TOR: 2920152 SEP. 77

IN 417464

GN VA 35 61.0

TO SUBJECT TO SPEAK TO MOBUTU WHO AS HOS KNOWS IS CURRENTLY IN SWITZERLAND SUBJECT SAID THAT THE GIPENDA/MOBUTU TALK WILL TAKE PLACE IN NEXT FEW DAYS.

E. MEANWHILE GIPENDA AND SUBJECT AND POSSIBLY OTHERS HAVE RUN UP A 60.228 FRANC (US$ 25,222) HOTEL BILL AT AMAT HOTEL AND EVIDENTLY THE HOTEL MANAGEMENT PLANS TO CALL THE POLICE IN THE NEXT DAY OR SO IF BILL IS NOT PAID.

F. SUBJECT BROUGHT WITH HIM A FILE OF XEROXED DOCUMENTS IN A LOOSE LEAF NOTEBOOK WHICH HE FLEETINGLY EXHIBITED. THERE WERE SEVERAL PHOTOS OF SUBJECT IN CAMOUFLAGED JUNGLE DRESS IN A JUNGLE, A PHOTO OF A PERSON SIMILARLY DRESSED WHUM SUBJECT IDENTIFIED AS FERNANDEZ AND LISTS OF EQUIPMENT AND OTHER MATERIAL WHICH SUBJECT SAID WAS SENT BY SOVIETS TO CUBAN FORCES IN ANGOLA. ACCORDING TO SUBJECT, THIS INTELLIGENCE WAS SENT OUT BY MPLA MEMBERS STILL IN ANGOLA.

G. SUBJECT SAID THAT ANOTHER COUP AGAINST ANGOLAN GOVERNMENT IS CURRENTLY BEING PLOTTED AND, IF SUCCESSFUL, PLOTTERS WANT GI PENDA TO BE THE NATIONAL LEADER AND NOT HOLDEN ROBERTO. SUBJECT APPEARS STRONGLY ANTI-HOLDEN ROBERTO AND SAVIMBA.

SECRET

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000

MFG 7178

CABLE SEC DISSEM

SECRET

ISSUING

STAFF

T211787

EI AB52

PAGE

TORI 2920.152 SEP 77

IN 41 74 64

GN VA 35610

SUBJECT DID NOT MAKE ANY PITCH FOR MONEY OR ANY OTHER REQUEST BUT SAID HE WOULD LIKE SOMEONE FROM WASHINGTON WHO WAS FAMILIAR WITH ANGOLAN MATTERS TO COME TO GENEVA SOONEST TO SPEAK WITH GIPENDA IF WE WANTED TO LEARN MORE.

3. IN RESPONSE TO COS QUESTION, SUBJECT SAID HE WAS NOT MERCENARY BUT HE WANTED AS A FORMER SOUTH AFRICAN TO SEE CURRENT ANGOLAN REGIME THROWN OUT ALONG WITH THE CUBANS. IN SPITE OF SUBJECT'S STATEMENT THAT HE DOES NOT WANT ANY MONEY OR DID HE COME TO MISSION TO SELL INFORMATION, IT IS DEVIOUS SUBJECT AND GIPENDA ARE OUT OF MONEY. SUBJECT WENT TO EXCEPTIONAL LENGTHS TO BE ASSURED THAT ABOVE INFORMATION WOULD NOT LEAK, HE APPEARS TO BE A VERY WELL-EDUCATED, COHERENT, SOFT-SPOKEN INDIVIDUAL IN SPITE OF THE FOREGOING STORY. HE IS ABOUT 6 FEET THREE INCHES TALL, 216 POUNDS, DARK BROWN HAIR WORK STYLISHLY LONG, LONG FACE, CLEAN SHAVEN, SMOKES BRITISH CIGARETTES, AND SPEAKS WITH EITHER A SOUTH AFRICAN OR AUSTRALIAN ACCENT.

4. COS TOLD SUBJECT THAT HE WOULD PASS ALONG SUBJECT'S STORY BUT IT WAS HARDLY LIKELY THAT ANYONE WOULD COME FORWARD TO PAY A $25,000 HOTEL BILL, COS SAID HE HAD HEARD OF FRANK STURGIS BEFORE AND IT APPEARS THAT HE MAY HAVE SOLD FERNANDEZ AND SUBJECT A BILL

SECRET

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000

CABLE SEC DISSEN BY

TOTAL COPIES

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

87

ECRET

TORI 29 22:152 SEP 77

JN. BY

ISSUING

STAFF

GN VA

FG CO DS AO COMMITMENTS OR ANY PROMISES WERE MADE TO SUBJECT NOR DID SUBJECT ATTEMPT TO ASCERTAIN COS'S IDENTITY OR NATURE OF HIS WORK

WOULD APPRECIATE ASAP HQS EVALUATION OF SUBJECT'S STORY AS SKETCHY AND DISJOINTED AS IT SOUNDS.

HQS HAS AF DIV IS 10 N OFFICER IN NEARBY COUNTRY WHO FAMILIAR WITH ANGOLA ADVISE IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO SEND HIM TO GENEVA FOR FURTHER DE BRIEFING OF SUBJECT.

FILE DEFER.

E2 1MPDET

SECRET

--- Page 8 ---

SUBJECT: LORENZ, Ilona Marita

SECRET

June 1976

As the result of an article on Subject in the 13 June 1976 New York Daily News LVCG was asked to do a file check to determine whether Subject was ever connected with the Agency. According to LVLOG Desk IP trace, C1/OA and Security Office check, LORENZ has never been employed by the Agency. Of interest, however, is the fact that her sister, Valerie LORENZ was granted a CSC on 14 July 1955, initiated by Finance Division, as a witting employee. At that time Valerie was an employee of the National Bank of Washington.

2. There are several references, sourced to the FBI and DCD. LORENZ is a self-admitted former girl friend of Fidel CASTRO. She claims that she met Fidel while on a trip to Cuba with her father, Captain of the North German Lloyd Line, in February 1959, became infatuated with Fidel and stayed in Cuba. She served as Fidel's mistress and came to the U.S. with Fidel's party in April 1959. She learned at that time that she was pregnant by him. Marita returned to Havana a short time thereafter and had a miscarriage. She claims that she was drugged and taken to a hospital where an abortion was performed. Because of Fidel's reaction to the pregnancy, she turned against him. LORENZ returned to the U.S. from Cuba on 9 December 1959.

Because of the bad abortion operation performed on LORENZ in Cuba in September 1959, LORENZ was operated on by a Dr. Hanniar on 20 January 1960 at the Roosevelt Hospital in New York City.

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000

It is said that LORENZ appeared on the Today's Show on 14 June 1976. She reportedly made the statement that she was associated with Frank STURGIS, and that she had placed some poison pills in her face cream for the purpose of assassinating Fidel. A 24 April 1961 FBI document states that on 8 January 1961 LORENZ, STURGIS, Alex RORKE were to meet that evening and attempt a unity meeting of anti-Castro Cubans. The unity meeting was sponsored by Luis CONTE Aguero, one of the leading anti Castro Cubans.

I have covered nothing to date concerning an assassination attempt (in this connection.)

Chris Hopkins

LA/COG/CIOS

CC:

to Bill Sturbitts for showing the IG

N.B.

COMMENT by 01 September 1977: Note recent traces that were sent to the DR on CONTE and allegations that he might have been (might be) a Cuban agent.

--- Page 10 ---

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL USE ONLY

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

PRIVACY ACT REQUEST

Frank Sturges

G/DO/PIC

HT-1

FORWARDED)

OFFICERS

Per

30 Ma

76-8-1062

This has already been done

Barnes & Ceme

with whom

are in litigation with

count in sup. Canally

we and IPs to coordin

the request

any

GC

with

DDO/PIC Attn: Cis

Tube HT-1 1D4127

RETURN TO:

FURY 2234

[ ] No record of subject(s)

No info identifiable with subject(s)

( ) See attached memorandum

40 docs for possible release&uds 201 file. reviewed

PRIVACY ACT REQUEST

INTERNAL

--- Page 11 ---

14-00000

Information R

Contral Inall

Street

76-1062

information

La

P

order

Prosent and form

to.co alto and final estimate of

the

meat for cosins

tion processes.

1976 £11.13

osita of sad m

oamatera request

For cocre end duplication services

difficult or

..o recards the charges for tiesa Barricas, to matters i

trotters may be Torty

access cores, the

consideration. The flist of the is thing, ivan the prope

ind the second

e::ccution of a couter search to naftic

In that in light of the controversiel

apest, waver or reduction

of the public interest. I therefore

of charges na conduce to Lie uitoe

respectfully requent that these factors be considered in the maing of a decision

as to the cost of servicos.

In compliance with your rouest for idarity verification ( pursuant

provisions of the 1974 ivacy et, section 5, subarctions and d) I

hereby year before a noter public as to a name and former names, ny

address, my date as well as place of birth, and

for your cooperation, I am

STATE OF FLORIDA

COUNTY OF DADE

Before mo

avocared

Frank Sturgis to me well known and

known to me to be the person de-

scribed in and who executed the fore-

going instrument for the purposes

therein expressed.

witness my hand and official ocal

this 19th day of May, A.D. 1976.

Uusia With

Notary Public, State of Florida

at Large

Ny commission expires 22 1920

citizenship. Tich in

ours truly,

Frank Sturgis

Frank north Florica

Frank Angelo Fiorini

Fran: Florini

Frans Anthony

Fran: Sturgi

Fran: Sturgis

Fran Donnelli

Freak: Campbell

code name:

Federini

Barbar

Samson

Son 9 Dec 1924

in Norfolk, Va.

ited States of norte-ŉ eft

--- Page 12 ---

14-00000

030

1962-1965.

1949

Sarina Cola se

( 1., .C.; Pecific theatro)

onorable dur

adro:

outs 2011, Ore.

St.

Collage

joined orfolk Folics Dent

attended 11

alno attevied real sol techiale Instit

c.1945-plored a renacer of the Vircint

Tavern on East Beth Street

c.1942-c-loyed to omez and manager of

The tenore Term on fast linin Stree

enlisted in the ..

at the Horiol vel

onesable disc inte

Euroge

aval Reserve

ir Station

orcunt sine travelling

my stationed in Company

onorable cinchirco

end

1957-1954.

1956-1961

Virginia Beach, Vho

Paaana Hondres; Ja

Cuba(sterc), Florida;

Mexico; Venesuela; Costa

ich; Guatemala;

Is.

Santiago, Cuba

1957 contact Consulates

1950: contact with Cat. Un

1950: contact with "shington,

101970 of 13

CI control officer 3 Se

--- Page 13 ---

14-00000

Jun 17, 1972

co

Evel

Jusiness (oration word) l'a::ico

frank

for the n-alca luntrua Ca:

coulding

ron biddy

rison Inst. in Danbury, Cona

ovac to lin ir Force se

ovolo de County Jail

23 277001

od

for Torvy uiment Company, Mant Floride

1er for Foice Is. Reiro, Hanflorida

cor for Continental are Corp. in 71oridn

eck for stoni coo.. Life Compan

37t vonua

you,

Sturgi

STATE OF FLORIDA

COUNTY OF DADE

Before me persona appeared Frank Sturgis to me well known-

and known to me to be the person described in and who executed

the foregoing instrument for the purposed therein expressed.

Witness my hand and official seal this 19th day of May, A.D. 1976

Will Will

Notary Public, State of Florida

at Large

My commission expires 1974

--- Page 14 ---

14-00000

Office of Public Indomition

Central Intell

Langley, Virginia

Dear Cits:

This letter fe re..

33167

Information Request

or any and all available infcortion in

computerized and docuziented files--in pussuance of the Freedon 08

Information Act section 552 of title 5 United States Code). Its

endent (ublic Ln. 93-502), as well co the automatic declassification

procedures stipulated Insecutivo Orior 11652

my alleged cetivitice as Frank turis or Frank

ces thereto. in.

for your kind copper.

Very truly

Frank Sturgis

-formerly,

Floring

--- Page 15 ---

14-00000

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

AUG

TO Director

FROM Deputy Director for Operations

SUBJECT: Frank STURGIS

REF CIR-316/01746-77

Federal Bureau of Investigation.

Attention: Intelligence Division

According to a source of the Miami Field Office of the Domestic Collection Division, Subject disclosed to the source the following information concerning plans which allegedly reflect Subject's interest in Africa and Panama in conversations held on or around 5 June 1977.

Subject has discussed plans to establish a Cuban Government in exile on Angolan soil with the help of Holden ROBERTO, FNLA. Subject is prepared on receipt of agreement from Roberto to provide food, medical teams and other forms of assistance to the FNLA. Ostensibly, this would be a first step following recognition by Roberto of a Cuban Exile Government. This government would then attempt to raise troops and, among other things, capture as many Castro soldiers as possible for such an enterprise ostensibly would come from Cuban Communities in Brazil, Nicaragua, Panama, Mexico, Venezuela and the United States. One aspect of the proposed unconventional war Also allegedly involved is planning to secure Angolan aid for Panamanians who oppose Torrijos.

Involved in unspecified ways in these plans are the following:

a. Leonel GOMEZ International Coordinator, Afro-Cuban Committee (appears to be inactive at present; formerly involved in the Cuban Exile Movement).

b. Dr. Alida REINOSO

c. (FNU) SOTOLONGO

d. Merwin SIGALE Columnist for an afternoon newspaper

WARNING NOTICE

QUODET

CLASSIFIED BY SIGNER

EXEMPT FROM GENERAL

Schluft of 6. u tisse, Ex

5 SEC (16 force

AUTOMATICALLY BREASSIEPOX

U

Date impossible to determi

Crales

--- Page 16 ---

14-00000

SUBJECT: Frank STURGIS

Stanley TAYLOR Leeds United Kingdom; allegedly an associate of Roberto

Colin TAYLOR An uncle of Stanley Taylor

The source has expressed an extreme fear of physical retribution should his disclosures become known and a disinclination to convey his information directly to other agencies

CIR-316/02820-77

--- Page 17 ---

14-00000

SUBJECT: Frank STURGIS

Distribution:

Orig 6

Addressee

PCS/LSN

OS/Redman

Case 65889

Info Control

FBI/LSN

LA Division

OSG Chronos:

Gene Lacy

10 August 1977.

--- Page 18 ---

14-00000

MAY 12 159 Fil 77

RET 1215302 MAY 77 STAFF

CITE DCD/MIAMI 14056

TC: DCD/HE AD QUARTERS.

TO: CSG (WALKER)

WINTEL

SUBJ: FRANK STURGIS

REF & MAINWARING/WALKER TELECON OF 11 MAY 1977

ROBERT W. MORGAN IS A MIAMI-BASED ADVENTURER AND PRODUCER OF SEMI-DOCUMENTARY MOVIES WHO HAS OCCASIONALLY VOLUNTEERED INFORMATION TO THE MEO. HE IS ACQUAINTED WITH FRANK STURGIS. ON 1 MAY 1977 MORGAN TELEPHONED THE NFO AND IMPARTED THE IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING.

WITHIN THE PAST FEW DAYS, STURGIS SAID THAT HE (STURGIS) HAD BEEN APPROACHED TO ORGANIZE TRAINING FOR 200 PANAMANIAN DISSIDENTS TO OCCUR IN COSTA RICA. TRAINING WOULD LAST 30 DAYS AND WOULD BE PART OF A LARGER ANTI-TORRIJOS EFFORT. HE PROVIDED NO FURTHER DETAILS.

STURGIS ALSO SAID HE WAS NOW ASSOCIATED WITH THE AFRO-CUBAN COMMITTEE, POSSIBLY A NEW GROUP, WHICH HAS AMONG ITS GOALS, COALESCING CUBAN EXILE OPPOSITION TO CASTRO. ACTIVITIES IN AFRICA. STURGIS SAID THE GROUP INITIALLY IS SEEKING 50 MEN FOR SERVICE OF SOME SORT IN ANGOLA AND ZAIRE. IN THIS RESPECT, STURGIS WILL DEPART SOON FOR LONDON AND BRUSSELS.

4. WE SHOULD NOTE THAT MIAMI AREA ABOUNDS IN STORIES ABOUT FRANK STURGIS, OR PURPORTING TO ORIGINATE WITH STURGIS. WE HAVE, HOWEVER, NO REASON TO DOUBT STURGIS ACTUALLY SAID THESE THINGS TO MORGAN.

5. SOME OF MORGAN'S FILM PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES TAKE HIM

--- Page 19 ---

14-0000

PAGE 2 DCD/MIAMI 14056 SECRET

TO UNUSUAL PLACES OR LEAD TO UNUSUAL PERSONAL ASSOCIATIONS. HE HAS AN OVERRIDING CONCERN THAT HE MIGHT AT SOME POINT BE IDENTIFIED AS A POLICE INFORMANT AND THEREFORE WILL NOT TALK TO THE FBI. HE HAS ALSO ASKED US TO REFRAIN FROM DOING SO IN MATTERS AFFECTING HIM.

6. NONETHELESS, SOME OF THIS SHOULD BE PASSED TO THE FBI. WE CAN TRY AGAIN TO PERSUADE MORGAN TO DEAL WITH THE FORE RESPONSIBLE AGENCY. ALTERNATIVELY, WE WOULD RECOMMEND PASSAGE OF SUBSTANCE AT HEADQUARTERS LEVEL.

E2 IMPDET CL BY 011668

SECRET

--- Page 20 ---

14-00000

SECRET 1715002 SEP 76 STAFF

CITE DODAMIAMI 13523

TO DCD/HE AD QUARTERS.

TO OPERATIONS SERVICES GROUP/OSA (FRENCH) FROM HENNESSEY

WNINTEL

SUBJ: ALBANIAN CRYPTOGRAPHIC MATERIAL

REF: DCD/HEADQUARTERS 16628, 1 SEPTEMBER 1976, SAME SUBJECT Sep 17 175.

ROBERT MORGAN, OWNER, SAFARI SPORT P.O. BOX 133, NORTH MIAMI BEACH, FLORIDA, AND VANGUARD RESEARCH, INC., P. O. BOX 312, MIAMI, FLORIDA, ADVISED US THAT FRANK STURGIS APPARENTLY DEPARTED MIAMI FOR WASHINGTON, D. C., WHERE HE INTENDED TO TURN SUBJECT MATERIAL OVER TO THE STAFF OF SENATOR HOWARD BAKER ON 2 SEPTEMBER 1976 STURGIS THEN INTENDED TO GO TO NEW YORK CITY. E2 IMPDET CL BY 011668

SECRET

--- Page 21 ---

14-00000

SECRET 241830Z AUG 76 STAFF

CITE DCD/MIAMI 13477

TO PRIORITY DCD/HEAD QUARTERS.

TO OPERATIONS SERVICES GROUP/OSB (FRENCH) FROM HENNESSEY

UNINTEL

SUBJ ALBANIAN CRYPTOGRAPHIC MATERIAL

REF HENNESSEY FRENCH TELECON 23 AUGUST 1976, SAME SUBJECT:

THIS IS TO CONFIRM REFERENCED TELECON. ON 23 AUGUST 1976 WE RECEIVED A CALL FROM ROBERT W. MORGAN, OWNER OF SAFARI SPORTS, P. O. BOX 133, NORTH MIAMI BEACH, FLORIDA, AND VANGUARD RESEARCH INC., P. O BOX 312, MIAMI, FLORIDA, IN WHICH HE INDICATED THAT HE HAD HAD A VISIT ON THE SAME DATE BY FRANK STURGIS. STURGIS HAD TOLD MORGAN THAT HE HAD JUST RETURNED TO MIAMI FROM NEW YORK CITY, WHERE HE HAD BEEN INTERVIEWED FOR THE "TOMORROW SHOW ON NBC." (THIS INTERVIEW WAS SUPPOSED TO HAVE BEEN TELEVISED AT 10 HOURS, 24 AUGUST, BUT WAS NOT.)

STURGIS SAID THAT WHILE IN NEW YORK HE HAD STAYED THE WEEKEND (PRESUMABLY 21 AND 22 AUGUST) WITH MARITA LORENZ, WHO STURGIS SOMETIME AGO PUBLICLY CLAIMED TO HAVE HIRED TO POISON CUBAN PRIME MINISTER FIDEL CASTRO. LORENZ GAVE STURGIS A BOOK CONTAINING CRYPTOGRAPHIC MATERIAL THAT SHE SAID SHE HAD STOLEN FROM THE ALBANIAN MISSION IN NEW YORK. MORGAN WAS SHOWN MACHINE COPIES OF THREE OR FOUR PAGES OF THIS MATERIAL, WHICH CONSISTED OF FIVE DIGIT NUMERICAL GROUPS IN SERIES ACROSS THE PAGES. EACH OF THE GROUPS HAD A SINGLE LINE DRAWN THROUGH AS IF A DECODING OPERATION HAD BEEN PERFORMED. STURGIS TOLD MORGAN THAT HE HAS DISTRIBUTED PAGES OF THE COOK IN VARIOUS PLACES IN MIAMI FOR SAFEKEEPING UNTIL HE CAN TURN ALL OF IT OVER TO SENATOR HOWARD BAKER. TO THIS END HE ALREADY HAD PLACED A CALL TO BAKER'S STAFF ON 23 AUGUST. STURGIS TOLD MORGAN THAT LORENZ HAD GIVEN HIM THE BOOK BECAUSE ONE OF HER MAFIA CONTACTS IN NEW YORK TRIED TO BLACKMAIL HER (FOR SOME REASON UNKNOWN TO MORGAN OR OURSELVES), AND SUBSEQUENTLY BEAT HER SEVERELY AND THREATENED HER LIFE. AS A RESULT, SHE NO LONGER WANTED ANY PART OF THE CRYPTOGRAPHIC MATERIAL IN QUESTION STURGIS PROMISED TO GET IT INTO OFFICIAL U.S. GOVERNMENT HANDS.

E2 IMPORT Cl. BY 011658

SECRET

--- Page 22 ---

14-00000

SECRET

3 August 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Call from Jon French DCD Concerning Frank STURGIS

The following information was provided to Jon French his DCD Miami office on 23 August. The information was given to the DCD Miami office by a contact (not identified) on 23 August who obtained it from Oscar FREELY. FREELY is writing a book on Frank STURGIS.

STURGIS is to appear on the Tomorrow Show at on 24 August, which is to be narrated by Tom Schneider. STURGIS just recently returned to Miami from taping the show in New York.

While in New York STURGIS saw Marita LORENZ and appeared obtained from her a book which, according to source, to be cryptographic material and seemed to relate to Albania. The DCD source saw a "few copies" of what he described as "mathematical matrix" material

STURGIS currently (today - 23 August) is attempting to contact Senator Baker to turn over the material to him.

DCD plans to ask the source to monitor the situation and advise whether the material in fact is turned over to Baker.

Chris Hopkins

LA/COG/CIOS

201-242256

STURGIS

Tott Tow Peach That Des should h

ADDO & Phil FENDIG - IR WILL do

8/23

--- Page 23 ---

14-00000

DIGEM

48

132

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANLE: COPY JAKO SLOT

ADMIN INTERNAL USE ONLY

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN

ISSUING OFFICE IN UNIBITED

STATE MESSAGE

ACTION UNIT

ACTION

FILE

VR

Masilie

571886

E14983

P 1503202 NOV 74

FM DIRECTOR, FBI

2/18/10, 0, SAID,...

PAGE 21-

TORI1503412 NOV 74

98033

45717

PRECURE CE

TO RUENOC/SECRETARY OF STATE

RUEAIIA/DIRECTOR, CIA

RUE SE US SECRET SERVICE (PID)

JA/ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL CRIMINAL DIVISION

ATTNI CIVIL DISTURBANCE UNIT

AND INTERNAL SECURITY SECTION

AND GENERAL CRIMES SE CT 10N

UNCLAS

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES.

8.

9. U/HEAR

A CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE WHO HAS FURNISHED RELIABLE INFO IN THE PAST AND IS KNOWLEDGEABLE CONCERNING CUBAN EXILE ACTIVITIES IN MIAMI ADVISED THAT CARLOS PRIO SOCARRAS, EX-PRESIDENT OF CUBA, AND CAPTAIN EDUARDO SOTOLONGO, OR, FESSER, DR, OTIEZA SUAREZ RIVA, PAUL POZO, OR. PEDRO ROIG. EULALIA ARNESTO, ALL PROMINENT CUBANS IN THE MIAMI AREA, MET WITH WASHINGTON, DC. COLUMNIST JACK ANDERSON ON NOVEMBER 1, 1974 THE MEETING WAS SET UP BY FRANK STURGIS, WHO SUPPOSEDLY IS A PERSONAL FRIEND OF JACK ANDERSON. THE MEETING TOOK PLACE IN JACK ANDERSON'S OFFICE AND IT LASTED APPROXIMATELY 20 MINUTES. JACK ANDERSON WAS FURNISHED WITH A MONOGRAPH WHICH REFLECTED AN ADVERSE ATTITUDE TOWARDS CO-EXISTENCE BETWEEN THE US AND CUBA,

CARLOS PRIO SOCARRAS WAS THE SPOKESMAN FOR THE GROUP AND HE ASKED JACK ANDERSON TO HELP THE CUBANS UNITE UNDER ONE COMMON GOAL, THE LIBERATION OF CUBA. JACK ANDERSON REPLIED THAT HE WOULD ASSIST CUBAN UNIFICATION IN THE U.S., BUT WOULD NOT WRITE AGAINST CO-EXISTENCE

SOURCE ADVISED ABOVE MEETING WAS HELD SOLELY FOR THE PURPOSE OBTAINING SUPPORT OF JACK ANDERSON IN UNITING CUBAN EXILES IN THE UNITED STATES, NO DISCUSSION WAS HELD CONCERNING BOMBINGS OR OTHER TERRORIST ACTIVITIES AND THESE MATTERS WERE NOT ALLUDED TO DURING THE MEETING.

ADMIN INTERNAL

--- Page 24 ---

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

CONFIDENTIAL 2E16012

CITE DCD/MIAMI 12521

PRIORITY DCO/WASHINGTON

AY 74 STAFF

DCD/OFFICE OF THE CHIEF (HORTON).

ATINI

FROM MIAMI FIELD OFFICE (HENNESSEY).

DCD

18 12 5 14 74

REF 1

FRANK STURGIS

HORTON/STAHLING/HENNESSEY TELECON, 7 MAY 1974, JAME SUBJECT

AT 1655 ON 7 MAY 1974 WE RECEIVED A TELEPHONE CALL ON THE LISTED LINE FROM FRANK, STURGIS, WHO INDICATED THAT HE SANTED TO MELT WITH US MIGHT CONVEY INFORMATION ON LE In andel THAT HE IMPORTANT TO THE ACENCY.

HE MENTIONED AT THE OUTSET THAT HE HAD ARFARGE TO MEET WITH MATT MACVANE OF THE PIIFICED OFFICE AT EARLIER DATE, BUT MACVANE MAD FAILED TO APPEAR AT THE APPORTED TIME AND PLACE. WE DID NOT CONTENT ON THE 420 IVZ MACHAME METING HOWEVER, WE IMMEDIATELY ADVISED STURGIS THAT WE ARE NOT UN A POSITION TO MEET WITH MY SUGGESTED THAT IF HE REQUIRED AGENCY CONTACT HE SHOULD DO IT AT THE WASHINGTCH LEVEL. HE ASKED WHO IN WASHINGTONNE MIGHT CALL. WE INDICATED THAT JE WERE CHABLE TO SUGGEST A SPECIFIC NAME.

2. STURGIS THE SAID THAT HE DIDN'T WAST 10 PLAY GAMES AND THAT HE WAS PREPARED TO GIVE US HIS INFORMATION OVER THE TELEPHON86

--- Page 25 ---

14-00000

PAGE 2 DCD/MIAKI 12521 CONFIDE

HE IMMEDIATELY SAID THAT IT CONCENED NARCOTICS IN MEXICO AND THAT A NUMBER OF VERY HIGH RANKING PEOPLE WERE INCLUES. WE TOLD HIM THAT IT WAS UNNECESSARY TO GO ANY FURTHER RECALOR THIS WAS A PROELEM FOR THE DRUG ENFORCEMENT AY, AND SUGGESTED THAT HE CONTACT THEM. HE RESPONDED THAT HE HAS HAD CERTAIN PROBLEMS WITH DEA, EUT HE INDICATED THAT HE MIGHT CALL GEORGE DAVIS, FBI, MIAMI, WHOM HE HAS KNOWN FOR CO TIME. WE AGREED THAT THIS NIGHT EE AN EXCELLENT IDEA. STURGIS THEN THANYED US AND THE CONVERSATION WAS TERMINATED.

DURING STURGIS WAS VERY PERSONABLE, EUT FRANK, DENY THIS BRICE CONVERSATION. WE BELIEVE THAT NE STANDS OUR POSITION, AND DO NOT ANTICIPATE THAT HE WILL ATTEMPT TO CONTACT US AGAIN

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS MEMORANDUM HAS BEEN PASSED LOCALLY TO THE CO5/6 *IANI, BY BRUCE MAINVANKING.

E 2 INFOET CL BY 012858

CONFIDENTIAL

---