14-00000
104-10180-10162 [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:

RALPH SEEHAFER
WH/L/FI
2065

DATE: 18 MAY 1961

TO: CARACAS
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: BELL 15
INFO: DDP, COP, ADCH/A, WH, BELL S/C
TO: PRITY CARA
JMZIP
INFO: MAY 18
DEFERRED
ROUTINE
OUT 9323

CITE DIR BELL 0628

PLS PUT FOLLOWING INTO SW WRITE COVER LETTER AND MAIL TO AMIRE 1:

"MSG NUMBER FIVE. (HENRY. RECEIVED YOUR SW MSGS THRU FOURTEEN.
BE VERY CAREFUL OF (ELVIKA JOVANE DE SAYAS) WE HAVE REPORT SHE VERY
PRO-CASTRO. FOLLOWING INSTRUCTIONS FOR YOU ALSO BEING SENT BY
RADIO. HENRY, CLINTON, HAPPY AND EUGENIO SHOULD LEAVE CUBA AS SOON
AS FEASIBLE. USE EVERY MEANS AVAILABLE INCLUDING COMPANY FUNDS
FOR LEGAL OR ILLEGAL TRAVEL. MEANTIME DIVORCE YOURSELF FROM OPERATIONS
AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE AND CONCENTRATE ON YOUR EXFILTRATION. ADVISE IF
OUR HELP NEEDED. IF ROBERTO WILLING BE ALTERNATE WT CHANNEL FOR
PETE AND NET PROVIDE HIM WITH RADIO. HE ONLY TO BE USED IN EMERGENCY.
USE INK AS PRIMARY CHANNEL. INSTRUCT FELIPE USE SW AND COURIERS
FOR NORMAL COMMO AND WT ONLY FOR VERY URGENT MATTERS. WE SENDING
POUCH VIA TIGERS WIFE. FOR SECURITY REASONS WE REMOVED ENVELOPE
THREE CONTAINING PERSONAL LETTERS AND REPLACED WITH ENVELOPE
CONTAINING PESOS FOR FELIPE MANAGE OPERATIONS. TELL FELIPES WIFE
SEND FULL DETAILS BANK ACCT TO HENRYS PO BOX MIAMI. WE WILL"

RELEASING OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFICERS
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

---

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

TO:
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: BELL 15
INFO:
TO:

CITE DIR 9323 BELL 0628
(INTERCEPT AND BEGIN MONTHLY DEPOSITS). TELL (PETE) BE CAREFUL OF
COUNSELLOR YUGOSLAV EMB WHO INTELLIGENCE AGENT. (DIMPLE) BRIEFED
CONTENTS THIS MSG FOR ORAL RELAY TO YOU."

END OF MESSAGE

R.W. Reichhardt
J.C. KING
C/MED
(En Verrell)
A. STANULIS
AC/WH/L

COORDINATING OFFICERS
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

RELEASING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.
SECRET
