```markdown
14-00000

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: LOGINOV, VALENTIN SERGEYEVICH VOL. II
201-285412

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM: 2

DELETIONS, IF ANY: THIRD AGENCY DOCUMENTS

REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL DATE DATE
RECEIVED RETURNED
JIM KELLY J.K. 16 JULY

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

14-00000
Contact Reports, etc., forwarded from the field.

14-00000

C/SB
SA/SEC
CONTACT REPORT
SUBJECT: LIROCKET-1 P-12244
DATE OF MEETING: 27 June 1967

1. I met Subject from 1300-1430 on 27 June at the Capistrano Restaurant.
I paid him $2,000 M.N. as his salary for May and June. The next meeting is
set for 25 July at 1300 at the Capistrano.

2. Subject conducted 14 classes at the Soviet Embassy during the reporting
period:

June
1530-1700 BEDRIN, GONCHARENKO, ROMANCHENKO. Subject asked if
KAZANTSEV had gone out of town, as he had told Subject he would probably
do. BEDRIN replied without hesitation that KAZANTSEV had gone to Moscow
and wouldn't be back until about 15 June.

6 June
1530-1700 BEDRIN, GONCHARENKO, ROMANCHENKO. Toward the end of
class, BEDRIN said there were two men who wanted to speak with Subject after
class. Following class, two men Subject didn't recognize came in and
GONCHARENKO and ROMANCHENKO left. The two men were introduced as Vladimir
SOKOLOV and Pavel KOVALEV. BEDRIN explained briefly that they also were
interested in taking English lessons, and thereupon left with the comment
that he didn't believe he was needed. SOKOLOV was the first of the twosome
to speak, repeated that he and KOVALEV wished to take lessons, and then
turned things over to KOVALEV, who, he said, spoke better English than he.
KOVALEV proceeded to state that he had served in Washington, D.C. for three
years, had served an earlier tour in Mexico, and had been back in Mexico
for about a month. (KAZANTSEV later said he and KOVALEV had served in

P-9037 (pp. 1-4)
P-9379 (pp. 1-4)
P-8607 (pp. 1-4)
P-830
P-3171
P-810 (PR. 1-4)
F-11712 (p.6)

14-00000

Washington at the same time.) At one point KOVALEV referred to SOKOLOV
as his "chief." SOKOLOV interjected that he was leaving Mexico "sometime
this year" and wanted to brush up on his English in preparation for the
4th year English proficiency test he would have to take when he returned to
the USSR. Subject said that on the whole, he got the impression that KOVALEV
was replacing SOKOLOV. A schedule of two classes a week, from 1800-1930
on Tuesdays and Thursdays, was agreed upon. One of the two Soviets mentioned
that the funds for their lessons would come out of the military department.
1715-1830 SOKOLOV and KOVALEV asked when Subject would suggest
they have their first lesson, and Subject replied that since KAZANTSEV was
away, they might as well begin immediately. The Soviets readily agreed.
Subject described KOVALEV's English as "good." His grammar is a little better
than KAZANTSEV's, but he is not quite as fluent as KAZANTSEV. SOKOLOV's
English is fair, but he is decidedly behind KOVALEV and KAZANTSEV
in both grammar and fluency. Nevertheless, Subject feels SOKOLOV is good
enough to be in the same class as KOVALEV.

8 June
1530-1700 BEDRIN, GONCHARENKO, ROMANCHENKO.
1700-1830 KOVALEV and SOKOLOV.

13 June
1530-1700 BEDRIN, GONCHARENKO, ROMANCHENKO.
1700-1830 KOVALEV and SOKOLOV.

15 June
1520-1700 Subject arrived at the Embassy early. BEDRIN came into
the Reception Room about 1520 and took Subject to the classroom (in which
there has always been a TV set). Three of the guards were sitting around
the TV watching the Salazar fight when Subject and BEDRIN entered. GONCHARENKO

14-00000

came in about 1530 and ROMANCHENKO about 1540. All watched the fight
until it ended about 1550, after which the class began.

1700-1830 KOVALEV and SOKOLOV.

20 June
1530-1700 BEDRIN, GONCHARENKO, ROMANCHENKO.
1700-1800 KAZANTSEV. KAZANTSEV began talking about his trip on
his own initiative. He said he left Mexico City on 30 May and arrived in
Moscow on 3 June. (He did not say when he returned to Mexico.) He gave no
reason for the trip, but said he had "several conferences and meetings" in
Moscow. Subject interjected that he thought the trip might have had something
to do with the Middle East crisis, since it broke out just about the time
KAZANTSEV left. KAZANTSEV laughed spontaneously at this idea and replied
that what he knew about the Middle East wouldn't do anyone any good. He
then went on to say he had spent his first weekend in Moscow with his son,
who shortly thereafter left for his summer job in "Siberia." He said he
spent the second weekend (10-11 June) with his daughter. The daughter,
according to KAZANTSEV, had planned to go "south" for a 2-3 week vacation in
early June, but postponed the vacation when she learned her father was
coming. (The implication, according to Subject, was that KAZANTSEV's trip
came about fairly suddenly.) What KAZANTSEV was most interested in talking
about, however, was the fact he had unexpectedly had to take his English
proficiency test in Moscow. He consequently set aside the last three days
of his stay for the test, which can often take that long. The first day
is taken up by an oral test, and if one passes that, he goes on to the written
test, which can take up to two days. KAZANTSEV, however, did so well on
the oral test that he was exempted from the written test. He said his
examiners gave him a "4" (on a 1-5 scale) and would have given him a "5"
except for the fact he hadn't read any books in English since his last
test. One is supposed to read four or five books a year in English, according

14-00000

to KAZANTSEV. In any event, KAZANTSEV was very happy with the outcome
and with Subject's work in preparing him for the test. In fact, he said
that although he had originally, started taking lessons from Subject only
to prepare for the test, he was so satisfied with his progress that he
intended to stay on with Subject despite the fact the test was behind him.

1800-1930 KOVALEV and SOKOLOV.

22 June
1530-1700 KAZANTSEV took the first hour and a half. He merely
said BEDRIN, GONCHARENKO, and ROMANCHENKO would not attend class that day.
1700-1930 KOVALEV and SOKOLIN.

3. KOVALEV and SOKOLOV. SOKOLOV is the more simpatico of the two.
While KOVALEV can be very pleasant, he seems to have an antagonistic
strain and occasionally challenges Subject's teaching with: "That isn't
the way we do it in our courses," etc. Sometimes, in fact, the disputes
on methods, points of grammar, etc. have become rather heated. On these
occasions, SOKOLOV has usually stepped in more or less on Subject's side
and cooled things off. At their second meeting, KOVALEV asked Subject directly
what his views were on the Middle East crisis, Subject turned the question
back on KOVALEV by saying he would frankly be more interested in KOVALEV's
ideas, as he was sure KOVALEV was much better informed about the situation
than he. KOVALEV backed away this time, claiming he didn't have much infor-
mation either, but at a later class both he and SOKOLOV parroted the Soviet
line about the crisis--Israel was the aggressor, etc. On another occasion
when the Middle East was again the topic, Subject referred to (what he recalled
as) President Truman's post-World War II proposal to internationalize both
the Suez and Panama canals. KOVALEV immediately objected to this idea,
although he gave no indication of ever having thought about it before.

14-00000

4. KOVALEV. Subject said he mentioned KOVALEV and SOKOLOV to his
wife, and she immediately recalled KOVALEV as one of her students at the
Institute back in the late 50's or early 60's.
She told Subject that he had been friendly with a number of people at the
Institute (students and teachers). One of these, she recalled, was Bill
CASTELAZO, a U.S. citizen who then and still teaches English and Spanish
at the Institute. CASTELAZO is about 35. He was among 20-25 persons
who 7 or 8 years ago studied Russian at the Institute when it was taught
for a brief time by a Russian woman. Subject's wife told Subject
that KOVALEV and CASTELAZO had been very friendly and that KOVALEV had
invited him to the Soviet Embassy at least twice. CASTELAZO told Subject's
wife that after one of his visits to the Soviet Embassy, he was approached
by someone from the American Embassy and asked to inform on the Soviets.
CASTELAZO said he was repelled by the idea of being an informer and
implied that he hadn't cooperated with the American. Subject said he had
not known about CASTELAZO's acquaintance with KOVALEV, but had known that
CASTELAZO had studied Russian and had had him to his apartment along with
ROMANCHENKO, BEDRIN, and GONCHARENKO for his 1 July 1966 "Dominion
Day party.
5. Subject subsequently mentioned to KOVALEV that his wife remembered
having him as a student during his previous tour. Subject also remarked
that his wife had mentioned that KOVALEV and his (Subject's) friend CASTELAZO
had been friends. KOVALEV replied without any embarrassment that he didn't
remember Subject's wife, but did remember CASTELAZO. KOVALEV asked Subject
to give CASTELAZO his regards the next time he saw him.
6. Other than a 1960 reference to "Guillermo CASTELAZO" as a 20-23
year old teacher at the Mexican-North American Institute and an author
of one of the Institute's text books, there are no Station traces on

14-00000

the CASTELAZO in question. (See 50-6-5513, CR of 13 Sept. 1950.)

7. LOGINOV. When Subject was leaving the Embassy on 15 June (about 1835),
he met LOGINOV in front of the Reception Room. They talked, chiefly about
sports for about 15 minutes. LOGINOV said skiing and speed skating were
two of his favorite sports, and that his greatest sporting interest in
Mexico was playing tennis. Subject said that LOGINOV seemed to be an
avid sportsman. LOGINOV said that he was going to Moscow on vacation toward
the end of July. No reference was made to Subject teaching LOGINOV's son
English when the LOGINOVS return from vacation, but Subject assumes this
is still LOGINOV's wish.

8. Subject to Make Tapes At Embassy Prior to Class. At
one of their classes after KAZANTSEV's return from Moscow, Subject and
KAZANTSEV discussed Subject's making tapes for use in connection with his
three Embassy classes. It was agreed that Subject would come to the Embassy
half an hour or so early once a week to make the tapes. He was to begin
on 27 June (the day of our meeting). Subject did not yet know where he
was to do the recording, whether he would be left alone, etc.

9. Subject said he was considering having another Dominion Day Party
on 1 July to which he would invite his Soviet students. I encouraged the
idea and told him I'd pick up the tab.

10. The week of 19 June the wife of President DIAZ Ordaz called the
Director of the Instituto Irlandes and asked if he could recommend a tutor
for a nephew of hers. The director replied that the Instituto had a good
English teacher and that although he was very busy, he would ask him if he
would be willing to take on the nephew. The director communicated the above
to Subject, and Subject gave the Director a list of the few hours he had
free. The director told Subject he would call Mrs. DIAZ Ordaz back and
would inform Subject if any of the hours were suitable. As of 27 June,
Subject hadn't heard further from the director.

53/2 L

14-00000

MEMO OF CONVERSATION
27 June 1967
Leila BELAVAL, Visa Officer of U.S. Embassy.
C/FB.

1. I talked to Leila today about her contact with the Soviet who brought
BAZAROV's passport in for a visa yesterday. She identified the Soviet from
a photograph as Valentin Sergeyevich LOGINOV, and said that he is always
the one who comes to the U.S. Embassy for visas. She did not recognize
the photograph of Vladislav Sergeyevich KORMUSHKIN, the Vice Consul.
Actually, Leila believed that LOGINOV was a Vice Consul, said she always
asks for him as such when she has to call the Soviet Embassy.

2. Apparently yesterday was not the first time that LOGINOV has tried
to make a date with Leila. She says that he always asks her what she does
in her free time, and that she has put him off by saying that she is very busy.
Once she asked her whether she spent her free time with other people
ax from the Embassy and was surprised to hear that she usually spends her
off hours with non-Embassy friends. Yesterday LOGINOV again asked her
what she did in the evenings, and she said she was especially busy now
because she has started taking guitar lessons. He mentioned some Soviet
dance group that was coming to Mexico in a month or so and said he would
like to invite her to go to see them with him. He also told her he was not
married. Leila said she did not refuse the invitation outright but said that
she did not know whether she would be free when they came or not.

3. I told Leila a few of the facts of Soviet life; that all Soviets have to
be married in order to go overseas, that LOGINOV is a KGB officer and
was obviously trying to get his foot in the door of the U.S. Embassy through
her, that he was undoubtedly disappointed to hear that she did not spend
all her free time with other Embassy people, etc. Leila has evidently been
unsure about how to react to LOGINOV's advances, has not wanted to be
rude to him, and seemed relieved when I suggested that she simply decline
his invitations by always being busy. She says she does not like his slick
manner at all, and I gather that she has felt uneasy in having to deal with
him, but now that someone has told her how to react she will have no problem.

4. Leila mentioned that LOGINOV knows English but is reluctant to
use it. He once read off the visa stamped in a passport in perfect English,
and he also read a copy of the new visa regulations in English (to himself,
but evidently understanding it all). According to the new regulations,
Soviets no longer need visas for continuous transit of the U. S. (I. e., on the
same flight), but LOGINOV insisted on getting a visa for BAZAROV in spite
of this. (This is confirmed in LIENVOY.)
COPIES MADE
Senior
BAZAROV
(P__7759)
J.L. WEENING
(Loginov)
US:P-11712

14-00000

SECRET
15 June 1967
Subject invited LOGINOV and his wife for dinner and LOGINOV
accepted for 13 June. (COMMENT: LIENVOY reports their confirming
this date on 12 June). Subject said the tickets were used by
his wife and son.

The guests on 13 June were LOGINOV and wife, William do
Mier (P-5552), manager of KLM in Mexico and Gustavo Ortiz Hernan
(P-10971). ORTIZ was Mexico's first Ambassador to Israel and is
very pro-Israel. He recently retired from the Mexican Foreign
Service. His last job was Ambassador to Chile. He is 57 years
old and apparently a good friend of Subject's. Subject invited
ORTIZ because he knew that LOGINOV has been interested in public
opinion in Mexico about the recent Israel-Arab war. Subject had
been only able to give LOGINOV the opinions of Mexican Jews and
he wanted LOGINOV to talk to a real Mexican. The deck was slightly
loaded since Subject knew that ORTIZ is an Israeli partisan.
Subject purposely avoided the subject but it was not long before
ORTIZ asked LOGINOV about the Soviet position on the matter.
LOGINOV answered with a banality about the USSR only wanting peace.
ORTIZ then unloaded on LOGINOV for about half an hour. He told
him that he had been in Israel as ambassador and had seen both
sides. If the Soviets were interested in peace, why didn't they
help the miserable and diseased Arabs with medicine, hospitals,
job training, agricultural aid, etc?
This is what they need,
not tanks and jets. The Soviets are the real aggressors by
arming the Arabs and egging them on. And what fools the Sovs
are since the Arabs will never learn to operate any equipment,
much less sophisticated stuff. Soviet hypocrisy is obvious to
everybody. FEDORENKO's performance at the UN was shameful, etc.
LOGINOV never answered a word. Subject later reported the above
to the Israeli Ambassador who was pleased since ORTIZ is not a
Jew and he is sure the above would be reported to Moscow.
LOGINOV said he will leave on 23 July for vacation in
the USSR. Subject saw Mrs. LOGINOV for the second time. Since
her Spanish is extremely limited, she did not participate in
general conversation. However, she handled herself well and did
not seem in the least ill at ease. In a side conversation she
told Subject that they have a fifteen year old daughter who is
living with her mother. She said that she has known LOGINOV
since the age of six as neighbors in Moscow. Finally, she said
that she is a chemical engineer.

5. I asked if Subject had talked to Miriam AVILA Katz (P-581)
again about her contacts with our Embassy. He said he hadn't.
I asked what advice he had given her. He said that he had told
her to be truthful with the Americans and to be careful with
LOGINOV.
Francis J. COIGNE
FILE: P-2712
P-11712
P-5352
P-10971
P-581

14-00000

On the 9 May I went with my wife to the reception given by the
ambassador of Checoslovaquia on the occasion of hier National Day.
The party took place in the garden where there were a couple of
tables seating about ten persons each. Most of the people seating
at the tables were from embassies behind the Iron curtain, or
local supporters of the extreme left such as Cordero Amador, the
painter Marin-Busqued, the art critic Margarita Nelken, Ruth Rivera
etc. The Soviets were there headed by Amazarnym Bazarov and
Kazantsev, present also by the name of/Tchmikov, Valentin Loguinov,
Tchaikov is a young man, about thirty five, speaks very good
Spanish and has a rather nice wife. He invitedus to attend the
exhibition of a film, a russian film at the embassy the next
day, he also whatwe were leaving said that we had to go to his
house soon and have a real russian dinner. This kind of invitation
is most unusual. I do not remember any other sovietico suggesting
such a thing.
In the party there were the usual diplomatic crowd which
at ends parties of representations behind the Iron Curtain, Max
Wery, the Belgian ambassador and his wife, the French ambassador
and his wife, the French Counsellor la Tour du Pin and his wife,
the architect Lopez Malo who is one of the directors of the
Comité Organizador de los Juegos Olimpicos, the italian ambassador
and one of his daughters, the Uruguayan ambassador, the Chilean
ambassador and Enrique Cobo del Campo the cousellor of the same
embassy, the cuban ambassador Joaquin Hernandez Armas with whom
we talked about Venezuela and told me that it was an stupid thing
to accuse a country of trying to invade another country with half
a dozen men. The chechs had plenty of beer brought checoslova-
COPIES MADE
to P-6235
cy

14-00000

quia but mixed it with just as much mexican beer if you were not
careful. The Brazilian ambassador was there, Guillermo Gimenes
Ramirez the charge of Costa Rica, Gonzalo Almeida Urrutia, the
ambassador from Ecuador, from the Foreign Office, Muñoz Zapata and
Flores Tejada. I do not remember seing anybody from the US, but
I arrived somewhat late, Kai Somerto the ambassador from Finland
was present and so was the mayor general Natahn Aferi from Ghana,
the ambassador was most friendly as well as Jan Hant the commercial
counsellor and Jiri stram Svestka the second secretory in
charge o the consulat.
Next day we went to the Soviet embassy for the exhibition of
a film whose title I think was the Father of the Soldier, a rather
childish film but that brought tears to the eyes of some of the
embassy wives who attended. There was an small group of people,
including tomse army officers from the Secretary de la Defensa,
and
Amiral Azanar Cetina, subsecretario de marina, and amiral
Otal Briceño, who after a long illness has now some new post in
Marina. All the Soviet staff was present, there were two or three
cuban including Curvello. There was a change, the doors of the
sisted
there was no question by the people
embassy were wide open and
at the maxm outside door, inside Frygov and other fellow received
the visitors. There was as usual plenty of vodka, kxnxmm small
eats but no caviar, both thing were served before and after the
exhibition of the film
On the 17th of may we went to a reception for the National day
of Noruega. They have a beautiful house in Monte Carpatos which
had been built for the embassy along their norweigian style; the
new ambassador is a tall gaunt, strange man, there were not many
people because there was a diplomatic lunch at Relaciones and

14-00000

white film of the Opympics to Ram rez Vasquez.
No Indian around.
No Greek either. Chacha Valdes, formerly de Lanz Duret, with
her new husband, licenciado Lozano. She if the owner of Universal.
He was
as nobody until he married, now he is a well known jurist.
Francisco Aguera Cenarro, the director of Revista Internacional,
trying to impress the French ambassador with the fact that he
had printed an editorial on Israel if his magazine. Revista
Internacional has a miculation of about five hundred copies, but
gives húera a good ten thousand pesos a month.
It was
was a fairly good party as far as di lomatic porties
go, but sterile in results. Nobody appeared to bar worry
pes/re
very much about the war in the East, and some epple like the
Paraguayn and the Tobias Eguizabal had the idea that everything
had been prepared in advance by the United States and the URSS.
That there had been a meeting in which the question had been
atteled.
Loguinov called me to the office to tell me he had tickets
for me and my wife for the Bolshoi ballet for Sunday night. We
had been unable to secure anything at the office.

14-00000

five
On Sunday 11 June, Valentin Loruinov was able to obtain for us
two good tickets for the Ballet Bolshoi at Bellas Artes and
afterwards we went to have something to eat at Lady Baltimore in
Madero Street. Very few people were there, which is not surprising
in view of the bad quality of their food and poor service. But
it was the nearest spot for a quick bite.
Loguinov was very much interested in knowing what my US
friends thought about the situation in the Middle East and what
they would do about it. He was insistent about the possible help
that the US would give to Israel,he said that the US had already
given Israel a considerable amount of ammunition and planes, and
specially money, the URSS had to give some help to the arabs in
view of the help given to Israel. According to him there was not
the slighest doubt that Israel had been the agressor. The URSS
would never consent to any territorial gains by Israel.
During our conversation about food, specially about seafood
he let it be know that he had been in Mazatlán several times.
He said that everything which had taken place in the Middle
East had been plotted in advance by the US and Israel.

14-00000

SECRET
CONTACT REPORT
SUBJECT: LICOZY-8
DATE OF MEETING: 3 Juno 1967
1. After a long hiatus, I called Subject on ca 14 May and
learned he was out of the country. I called him again on 6 June
and we made a date for 8 June. The meeting was in the breakfast
room of the Del Paseo Hotel from 0810 to 0915. The next meeting
is at the same place at 0830 on 15 June.
2. Subject was all excited about the Israel/Arab conflict
and we spent the best part of the meeting discussing it.
3. He said that LOGINOV called him on 5 June and pressed
for a luncheon date the same day. Subject put him off until 8 June.
LOGINOV wanted newn on the local Jewish reaction, was everybody
behind the Jews, was money being contributed, etc. Subject who
was sadder than hell about Soviet support of the Arabs gave him
holl and to direct questions got the admissions from LOGINOV
that the Israelis vore acting in self-defense and that the
Americans and British were not providing the Israelis air cover.
LOGINOV mentioned that he would go to the USSR on home leave in
July.
4. On 6 June Miriam AVILA Kata, who is also very excited
about the war and who told Subject that she had gone to the
Israeli Embassy to voluntoor to serve in Israel, told Subject
that when she returned home on the evening of 5 June, LOGINOV
was waiting for her on the street. His purpose was the same as
LOGINOV
wanting to see Subject, to pump her on local reactions to the war.
She also gave LOGINOV hell.
5. She then told Subject that in Holy Week she had been
called to the American Embassy and had been asked about her contact
with LOGINOV. She said that she had seen the same American
(no name given) about two weeks ago. She then told Subject that
LOGINOV had asked her to introduce him to "one of her progressive
friends or "someone in the U.S. Embassy" as a return for the
favor of issuing a visa to Dr. Yuriy KUTLER.
6. The above is a capsule account of her relationship with
LEVENDERIS. I played innocent until I got the whole story but
finally admitted that we had talked to her when he asked, "if it
wasn't you, who?" I told him that AVILA had notides that Subject
was in contact with us and had in fact worried that her activities
(future) might hurt him which she was definitely against.
7. It appears that AVILA told Subject about us because of
LOGINOV's appearance on 5 June and her emotional state about the
war.
I will discuss this further with Subject at the next meeting,
particularly what advice he has or will give her about cooperating
with us.
FILE:
P-2712
Francis J. COIGNE
P-11712
P-581
S E C R E
T

14-00000
17
DOI 14 June 1967
SOURCE: LIHABIT
14 June 67
LOGINOV (P-11712) visited the Czech Embassy this day. He was driving
diplomatic license plate car 19 DA. He was there from 1214 to 1238 hours.
of
file P-11712

14-00000
18
SECRET
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Contact with BESABER, 24 May 1967
1. Operational
Per telcon arranged meet at BESABER's
hotel room at Del Paseo (204). Met from 1830-2030, 24 May.
BESABER will call 30 May or 1 June to arrange next meet.
Finances
1. CO picked up BESABER's accounting for revolving fund,
will reimburse him at next meet.
Substance
1. Soviets At about 1000 on 18 February Vladimir Ivanovich
SHPAKEVICH (P-8167) phoned BESABER from Cuernavaca. BESABER had
never met him before. S explained he friend of Valentin Sergeyevich
LOGINOV (P-11712), that L unable to
it because some people
had arrived in town. S showed interest in buying some of BESABER
products, therefore BESABER asked him to come to factory. S
arrived with wife and young girl who works in the Embassy (18-19
years old, tall, good figure, dark brown hair, spoke Spanish,
she wore kerchief) - this probably Tatyana MARKINA (P-12945). S
brought almost 2000 pesos worth of stuff including two
large screens. BESABER opines that this was not personal
purchase, but rather either for the Embassy or operational expense
deal. S also insisted that purchases be delivered to Embassy,
not his house.
2. S invited BESABER and wife to Army Day reception at the
Soviet Embassy (28 Feb 1967), saying that he had forgotten to
bring written invitation but that it would be at the gate of the
Embassy (BESABER was reluctant to go and I thought it better for
him to not appear overly eager so he did not go.)
LOGINOV
3. Before Leaving (they stayed about 45 minutes) S told
BESABER that would probably come to Cuernavaca the following
day, Sunday about noon. (he didn't.)
FILE: P-8777 P-8167 P-11712 P-5183 P-13019 P-885
P-9772
SECRET

14-00000
63
SECRET
After S, XXX wife and M had left BESABER picked up
girl and drove to the Arosena (phonetic) hotel in down town
Cuernavaca. Sitting in the garden of the hotel at about 1300
the spotted S(with his shirt off) sitting at another table
conversing with a man who looked Russian, apparent age 25, thin,
wavy dark brown hair. S's wife also present, but not. BESABER
left after about 15 minutes without talking to S although S must
have seen him.
6. Per CO instructions BESABER phoned L on 24 February to
apologize for not making it to the reception. During this
conversation (LIENVOY intercepted) L said he would come to
BESABER's house for lunch on Saturday, 25 February with about
five other people. He showed up at about 1545, stayed until 1830
with :
Aleksandr Mikhaylovich BROVKIN (P-829) and wife
Boris Aleksandrovich MALAKHOVICH (P-9772) and wife
Mrs. Pavel YATSKOV (P-885)
Mrs. LOGINOV (P-11712).
8 assorted children of above.
They arrived in two cars, BROVKIN driving a 2-year old
light blue Ford Falcon, LOGINOV a blue-gray Chevrolet, license
plates 19-DA. (BERABER may be color blind our records show
both cars as being green.)
8. The conversation was characterized by a lot of
propaganda on BROVKIN's and LOGINOV's part. Although Vietnam was
not mentioned, L boasted several times that the Soviets would
get to the moon first, complained about the Kennedy murder
scandal, and generally spoke in an anti-American vein. BESABER
and his wife tried to laugh them out of this theme, but with little
success.
9. At one point BESABER mentioned an article he had recently
read in Business Week about the Soviet car industry. When he
told LOGINOV that the article purported to be based on CIA
information, L would not leave him alone until he found the
article and gave it to him.
10. LOGINOV was obviously the superior of the three men.
Neither MALAKHOVICH aor his wife said a word. BROVKIN, after a
few drinks (but not drunk) started moaning about the problems
of life, mentioned that the only thing that kept him going was his
good wife and children. At this point LOGINOV walked up behind
BROVKIN'S chair, practically lifted BROVKIN, chair and all, and
said, "We must go."
8 E C R E T

14-00000
64
As far as the BESABERS could make out the only purpose
of the visit (other than to get a free meal) was to invite the
BESABERS to come to the Embassy to see