14-00000
104-10226-10011

Chief, Contest Division 6 April 1961
Husband of Visit 201
Julio Pablo Maga
2399 S.W. 2
Miami, Florida;

1. Mr. Frank Westeros, representative of the US State Dept. in Miami,
advised this office that Subject arrived in the US on 31 March 1961
and that he might have information of interest to this office.

2. On 4 April 61, Luis J.C. Rodriguez interviewed him. An examination of Subject's passport disclosed that he was born on
29 May 1933 in Havana, Cuba.

3. Subject stated that he is a member of a clandestine organization called
United Revolutionary Front (UR), which is composed of 26 underground groups. The
coordinator for military operations of UR was Major Roberto Si Marin, who
was arrested recently. The leaders of UR are Rogelio GONZALEZ, better
known by his name de guerre of "Trueno Lero"; and Rafael DIAZ, aka "Ralph". All
these individuals were arrested recently and UR is completely disorganized as a
result.

4. Subject also stated that his mission with UR was to serve as courier
between the organization and the Catholic Chaplain at the Cabanas fortress.
The liaison between the Chaplain and Subject is Pray BALBIES, who is the sexton
at the Juma de Miranc Church, in the suburb of Miramar, Havana.

5. Subject also made a trip to Sancti Spiritus in the Province of Las
Villas bringing a radio transmitter for the anti-Castro guerrillas operating
in the Escambray. Through the above national priests, Subject obtained some
information provided by prisoners held in the Cabana fortress which is being
forwarded to headquarters.

6. Subject intends to remain in the US indefinitely and has been instructed
to contact a Cuban national called "Barreto", who resides at Key West. Barreto is the UR representative in Miami.

7. No further contacts with Subject are anticipated.

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
