104-10178-10130
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

14-00000

Richard Ober
CIOP/DO
6537
19 April 1968

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES:

PRIORITY NO NIGHT ACTION

ASUNCION, BANGKOK, BARCELONA, BEIRUT, BERLIN, BERN, BOGOTA,
BRASILIA, BRUSSELS, BUENOS AIRES, CARACAS, COPENHAGEN,
FRANKFURT, GENEVA, GEORGETOWN, GUATEMALA CITY,
GUAYAQUIL, THE HAGUE, HAMBURG, HELSINKI, HONG KONG,
KINGSTON, LA PAZ, LIMA, LONDON, MADRID, MANAGUA, MONTEVIDEO,
NEW DELHI, LISBON, MANILA, MUNICH, OSLO, PANAMA CITY, PARIS,
PORT AU PRINCE, PORT OF SPAIN, PORTO ALEGRE, QUITO, RECIFE,
RAWALPINDI, RIO DE JANEIRO, ROME, SAN JOSE, SANTO DOMINGO,
SAN SALVADOR, SANTIAGO, SANTIAGO DE LOS CABALLEROS, SAO PAULO,
STOCKHOLM, TEGUCIGALPA, TOKYO, VIENNA, ZURICH

REF: DIR 92664

1. LNERGO HAS POSITIVELY IDENTIFIED ACCUSED ASSASSIN
AS JAMES EARL RAY, BORN 10 MARCH 1928 IN ILLINOIS; HEIGHT
FIVE FEET TEN INCHES; WEIGHT 163-174 POUNDS; BLUE EYES;

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

BROWN HAIR, SMALL SCAR ON CENTER OF FOREHEAD AND SCAR ON
PALM OF RIGHT HAND. IN ADDITION TO ALIASES CITED REF HAS ALSO
USED NAMES JAMES MCBRIDE, JAMES WALTON, W. C. HERRON, AND
JAMES O'CONNOR. SERVED IN U.S. ARMY FROM FEBRUARY 1946 TO
DECEMBER 1948; DISCHARGED AS INEPT AND UNABLE TO ADJUST,
ONCE CONFINED TO MENTAL HOSPITAL. HAS BEEN EMPLOYED AS
BAKER, LABORER, AND A DRIFTER WITH LONG
CRIMINAL RECORD FOR BURGLARY, ARMED ROBBERY, AND FORGERY.
HAS BEEN MISSING FROM MISSOURI STATE PENITENTIARY SINCE 23 APRIL
1967. CONSIDERED ARMED AND EXTREMELY DANGEROUS. CURRENT
WHEREABOUTS UNKNOWN.

2. PHOTOS OF RAY (LABELED GALT PRIOR TO IDENTIFICATION)
BEING POUCHED FOR LIAISON.
END OF MESSAGE

Richard Ober
CI/OP/DO

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
