Okay, I have reviewed the OCR-extracted texts from Tesseract and Google Vision and have created a combined and cleaned version below.

```markdown
14-00000

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: LOGINOV, VALENTIN SERGEYEVICH
201-285412
VOL. TIL

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY: THIRD AGENCY DOCUMENTS

DATE RECEIVED:
DATE RETURNED:
REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)
SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
JIM KELLY

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

14-00000

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: LOGINOV, VALENTIN SERGEYEVICH
201-285412
VOL. TIL

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY: THIRD AGENCY DOCUMENT

DATE RECEIVED:
DATE RETURNED:
REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)
SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
JIM KELLY

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

14-0000

Joey Count

Soft

SECRET

July 18, 1969

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, SB

VIA: Chief of Station

SUBJECT: Celebration of Polish National Day,

22 July 1969

1. The undersigned attended the celebration of the

Polish national day at the Polish Residence on Insurgentes

Sur on 22 July 1969. The following points were the most

significant:

a. The only Soviet the undersigned could

identify was Col. Konstantin Nikandrovich BOGATYREV,

the Soviet Military Attache. Someone the under-

signed's wife talked to mentioned the presence of

the Soviet Consul, but this certainly was neither

Valentin LOGINOV nor Yuriy CHERNYSH, and the

undersigned did not meet that person.

b. Whether the Cubans were invited or not,

they were not in attendance.

c. Jiri SVESTKA, of the Czech Embassy, was

there. Per SB Section briefing, the undersigned

mentioned his departure and told SVESTKA that at

least he would remain in Mexico. SVESTKA said that

this would not be the case, that he is scheduled

to leave within 15 days for Czechoslovakia. The

undersigned then mentioned a conversation with his

Czech friend in which the latter told him that he

expected to stay in Mexico for quite a while longer.

SVESTKA denied ever having said this, pointing

out that he was glad to return home. The under-

signed made no further comments.

SECRET

P-11712

14-00000

SECRET

d. The ex-Haitian Ambassador, Julio Jean

PIERRE-AUDAIN, was seen by the undersigned but

left before he could talk to him. In view of the

fact that PIERRE-AUDAIN ceased to be Ambassador

of Haiti a long time ago, the undersigned feels

that his presence at the Polish national day

celebration has some significance. He remembers

that PIERRE-AUDAIN was also present at the cele-

bration of the Czech national day this year. In

other words, the Communists have made it a point

to maintain contact with him, probably in view of

the fact that PIERRE-AUDAIN may return to Haiti if

something happens to DUVALIER and may secure a

position of some importance in his country.

2. The President of the Consular Association, VOURVOULIAS,

told the undersigned that he would contact LOGINOV at the

Soviet Embassy to see whether the latter would agree to a

joint celebration of both the undersigned's and LOGINOV's

departures in a party to be held for both of them at the same

time. LOGINOV is not scheduled to leave Mexico until

September 1969, a departure postponed from the original

schedule of late July or early August.

Raymond A. FRADYER

Distribution:

Orig - 7 (Consular Corps)

1 - P-11712 (LOGINOV)

1 - P-7111 (SVESTKA)

1 - P-5407 (PIERRE-AUDAIN)

RAF: 1mp

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET

22 July 1969

Résidence on Insurgentes
points were the most

Stes Eee sone pine aerating, eee eenecaneper oe,

B. | Bh
they were not in

See eR A ne eM 6 arenes enn

ro SECRET

14-00000

SECRET

-2-

in contact with him, probably in view of

the fact that PIERRE-AUDAIN may return to Haiti if

something happens to DUVALIER and may secure a

position of some importance in his country.

1 - P-7111 (SVESTKA)

1 - P-5407 (PIERRE-AUDAIN)

SECRET

14-00000

3

July 18, 1969

Contact Report

Subject: LIOVAL-1 (P-5903)

Date of Meet: July 17 at Hoyo 19 at 1430 hrs

1. Prearranged meet which lasted 90 minutes.

2. Next meet: August 17 at the same place.

3. On Friday July 11 L-1 gave a regular language class

to LIOVAL-1 and L-1 stated his interest to meet the Sov girl at L-1's

house. In the course of conv L-1 explained to LIBACON-1 why he believed

this was important to his work or in other words he gave him the cover story

about which we spoke at our previous meet. L-1 ensured LIBACON-1 that

he would bring the Sov girl (Alla LNU) to his house.

4. On July 16 at 1000 hrs L-1, i.e. at their next class

L-1 told me that he went to the Sov Emb to visit LOGINOV and he found him

this time. In the course of conv with LOG he (LIBACON-1) told him about

meeting Alla and his plans to invite her to his home and show her around.

LOG told him that Alla was his secretary and that he should not dare to

get close to her.

5. L-1 felt depressed with this development, because he believed that

he was on the way developing something for us. I told L-1 that there was

no reason of feeling bad about this fact, especially, because LOG was

leaving relatively soon and the girl would remain there.

6. L-1 told me that only 12 days ago

he had taken a magazine in which there was an advertising in a very good

Spanish and he showed the magazine to Alla and wanted to joke a little but

she appeared to be pleased with the fact that international firms are

used for advertising. L-1 corrected that Alla had asked from where

he got the magazine and she did not say anything about advertising.

SECRET

14-00000

8

Cuautitlan, lunch and excursion of

Span. col. Convent at Tepotzotlan from 1100 to 1900 hrs. on 17 July 1969.

Consular Corps is creature of Amer. cit and ex-Consul Gen. of Greece,

Leander F. Vourvoulias, who led excursion. In addition to helping the two

new Sta. officers work into consular cover and make contacts, the purpose

of the outing in part was to see at first hand the Sov. Bloc and Cubans who

belong to the CC. Three Sovs showed, no identified Bloc and no Cubs.

No other particularly interesting cons. types but door opened to meet

people at future CC meets.

2. Three Sovs who showed were Valentin Loginov, well-known to Sta.

as KGB under cons. cover, and two men of Commercial Sec. of Sov. Emb.

Both Sistone and Feralem independently identified Lev Nikolayevich Golonzov

as one of two commercial types from mug book-were unable identify the other,

who was quiet and hardly talked as he tagged along. Gelouzev was also

quiet but was engaged twice by Sistone in conversation. On one occasion G

said he had been in Mexico short time, was there as result recent Sov-Mex

trade agreements, just happened to be around and invited with colleague

to Ford outing. On other occasion G said Trotzotlan/Clear ant general

art more ornate and impressive than Byzantine church-monuments he familiar

with in Moscow, spoke Span. with heavy accent and didn't talk much but was

quite fluent nevertheless. Sillas Sistone also talked briefly to Loginov and

introduced by Fralyer as Fralyer replacement. However conversation i innocuous

and uninteresting compared to constant verbal sparring betw. Fradyer and Loginov

which Sistone will defer to Fralyer to report if he sees fit.

14-0000

13

July 10, 1969

Contact Report

Subjects LIBACON-1 (P-4805)

Date of Meet: July 9 at Farense Restaurant-Bar (Newton) at 1630 hrs

1. Prearranged meet; L-1 came on time; the meet lasted 2 hours

and 30 minutes.

Next meet: Wed July 16 at 1630 at pick up place in Racobedo

with Gutenberg

2. On July 9 at 0915 hre L-1 went to the Sov Embassy to look for

LOGINOV (P-11,712). A Sov girl receptionist told him that LOG was not

in and told him that he could wait in the reception room or wait for

him the waiting room of LOG's office. L-1 prefered to remain with the

receptionist (girl). He left after 55 minutes without seeing LOG.

When L-1 came to the receptionist and asked for LOG she in

turn asked him was he not L-1 ( by first name only), son of their language

teacher. L-1 answered affirmatively and in turn asked her what was her

name and how does she know him. She stated that her name was Alla LNU

and that she recognized L-1 by his voice from calling for LOG. (NOTE: L-1

feels positive that at least 4 months have passed since a woman answered

the phone when he asked for LOG).

3. In the beginning of the conv L-1 found out that the girl was

from Moscow which certainly pleased L-1 because he had what to talk about.

She complimented L-1 for speaking Russian without an accent, which was

not the case with L-1's mother, the language teacher at the Sov Emb.

4. Results of this conversation:

a. Alla LNU is in Mexico city less than a year. She is

bored to death here and is looking forward to returning

to Moscow as soon as she will be allowed.

b. She said that Mexico had a pleasant climate, but all

she knows about Mexico is Cuautla and even when she

is invited there she has no company of her own (sio).

c. With regard to her schooling: after she finished

--- Page 14 ---

14-0000

-2-

high school she went to a school for mechanical tech-

nicians where she studied about a year and gave it up

because she did not like it. She competed to enter the

school of modern languages at the university but she

failed. Then, she entered the M.I.M.O. (L-1 does not

know what it stands for ) and after 5 months she had

to go to Mexico.

d. L-1 told her that he would look her up occasinally

and she appeared to be pleased with the idea.

5. Descriptions: apparent age 25 26; hight about 5 ft

3 in (possibly less); hair light brown; very nice eyes

(L-1 does not remember the color); buildt rather

stout; face rather long; in general: pleasant appear-

ance.

6. Before leaving L-1 left with her a note for LOG in which he

stated that he can still be reached at the Institute between 1500 and 1000

hre and at home and added his phone numbers and concluded that if he

did not hear from LOG it would prove he had a friend who turned out to

be no good.

7. During L-1's waiting in the reception room Yuriy CHERNISH passed

by and they exchanged few unconsequential words. L-1 asked YO did he

give LOG the message he sent to LOG from that party (at Andreas CATANO)

and he said that he did it with pleasure and added few words of his own.

When YO left L-1 asked Alla when was LOG leaving and she said LOG would

leave in October 1969.

8. At 1510 hrs of the same day LOG phoned to L-1 in the Institute

and after some verbage they agreed to meet on Monday July 14 at the

Marinera restaurant at 1500 hrs (AV Chapultepec with or near Liverpool).

Both of them stated that they would be there without fail.

9. With regard to the meet LOG L-1 I repeated my previous in-

struction to L-1 concerning his attitude if LOG comes out again with

the request to meet LIOVAL-1.

10. With regard to L-1's acquaintance with Alla I suggested L-1 to

ask his mother about her. There is a possibility of finding cut her full

--- Page 15 ---

14-0000

name and whether she is married or not. L-1 should aleo mention to LOG

the fact that he met Alla while waiting for him. Depending on the find-

ings 1-1 should consider inviting Alla to his house for lunch one Sat

or Sun and take her with his wife and child to the Parque Asturiano to

spend the afternoon. I told L-1 that I would pay for the expenses for

lunch and possible entertainment. L-1 will discuss the matter with me

before doing anything.

11. L-1 reported that he had a 90 minutes talk with Karel WENDEL

(see Attachment) and I debriefed him on the same. There were very few

facts which were not covered in the previous report on WENDEL.

12. As it became obvious that the working part of the meet was over

L-1 stated that he would really feel bad and blow off his top im if he

did not see KARTASUK until the end of the month. I told him that KARTASUK

had put long period of work in the States and consequently his leave was

extended for the same amount of time end I can spend that time where he

pleased. L-1 commented that in that case he would extend the deadline of

becoming nasty to Aug 20. I laughed. L-1 commented that probably I was

not able to understand how much he was attached to KARTASUK.

BHFernald

14-0000

16

Contact Report

Subject: Jimmy SABORI (P-13,830)

Date of meet: July 7 in Subjects car and Insurgentes Samborns Bar

1. A meet was prearranged with Subject for July 7 at Del

Paseo at 1400 hrs. Subject phoned to our office in the course of the

morning to confirm the arrangement. ( FERNALD was trying to reach

Subject to change the place of meet, but he was not able to reach him).

Subject did not show up at the Del Paseo and after waiting 40 minutes

I went home ( his office ). At 1535 hrs F was infoed by the office

that Subject called several times and his latest statement was that he

would be in front of the Cine Latino ( across the Reforma from our

Embassy ). I came there on time but Subject was not around. Due to

heavy rain F was bound to stay there and at 1630 hrs Subject showed

up in an impressive Pontiac Bonneville, blue with light top, plates

SBD 755, Texas. Hemisfair (black). Subject waved to F to get in the

car.

Next meet: Friday July 1 at Bonaparte

2. In the car Subject stated to F that he goofed, because he

went to the restaurant where we met twice previously and after some

waiting and phoning he looked at his notebook and realized that he

was at the wrong place. He apologized. Then, Subject stated that he

had to return the Bonneville and take another car and he asked F to

have a ride with him. Subject took the car to Leibnitz and parked it

in front of the apt building at 297. He excused himself for few minutes

took newspapers, a small bundle and 2 miniature bottles of some

liquor and entered the apt. About 5 minutes later he returned and

we entered an old, beaten up Valiant withou