14-00000

104-10215-10128 - [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]
MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME:
BARNES, WINIFRED C.
DCD FILE
FILE 08 97 44
INCLUSIVE DATES:
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:
ROOM:
DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE DATE
RECEIVED RETURNED REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFI
NOT REVIEWED BY HSC
NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

---

CONFIDENTIAL
(When Filled In)
OF-8.97-44
Miami Office

INTEROFFICE MEMORANDUM

DATE: 28 February 1967

TO: Director, Domestic Contact Service

SUBJECT: BARNES, Winfred Clark
FILE NO: 496 289
A-89744

1. Reference is made to your request for security checks on the subject person as a source of intelligence information.

2. This is to inform you that the necessary checks have been completed with the following results:

a. No additional information has been obtained, except for such biographic information as indicated below or in the attachment.

b. Information has been received that Subject was investigated with favorable results in

c. Certain information has been received and appears in the attachment which your Division will wish to consider in determining the extent and level of your use of Subject.

3. It is to be noted that our checks were made on the basis of the identifying information you furnished or in an attachment to this memorandum. Should it be disclosed that this information is erroneous or that Subject is known by a different name, this Division should be notified immediately.

STEVEN L. KURTZ
Chief, Personnel Security Division

Attachment:
State Passport Report

FORM 6-65.
APPROVED
OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS
CONFIDENTIAL
GROCT
(9-47)
DECLASSIFIED

---

14-00000
CONFIDENTIAL
BARNES, Winfred Clark
#496 289
11 January 1967

On 4 January 1967 a passport file of Winfred Clark BARNES was reviewed at the Passport Office, Department of State. The following is a summary of the information contained therein:

Date of Birth: 1 May 1912 at Gatesville, Texas; verified by birth certificate

Father: Shaw Andrew BARNES; Date of Birth: 8 May 1882 at Kennedy, Texas; current residence not given.

Mother: Velma Elizabeth HARRIS; Date of Birth: 8 March 1888 at Thelma, Texas; current residence not given.

PASSPORT ISSUED: At Miami, Florida on 27 January 1966, #G755310, for a period of four weeks to visit Mexico, Guatemala, Costa Rica, Peru, Columbia, Venezuela, Argentina, and Brazil for the purpose of tourism.

Permanent address: 5350 Southwest 76th Street
Miami, Florida

Mailing address: International Petroleum Company, Ltd.
396 Alhambra Circle
Coral Gables, Florida

Occupation: Director

Spouse: Lois Enquist BARNES; Date of Birth: 8 March 1915 at New Haven, Connecticut; current residence not given; Wed: 17 February 1945; no information on whether or not marriage has been terminated.

PASSPORT ISSUED: At Miami, Florida on 27 February 1961, #B10831, for a period of varying from one day to three weeks to visit Bermuda, Bahamas, Jamaica, Trinidad, British Guiana, Guadeloupe, Barbados and Suriname for the purpose of business.

RENEWED: At Miami, Florida on 12 May 1964, for a period of ten days to visit Peru, Columbia, and other South American countries for the purpose of business.

SUBJECT's first passport was issued at Washington, D. C. on 21 February 1957, #328617, for a period of indefinite time, to visit Bermuda, Bahamas, Haiti, Trinidad, Jamaica, Honduras, El Salvador, Costa Rica, Panama, Nicaragua,

CONFIDENTIAL

---

14-00000
CONFIDENTIAL
#496 289

and Guatemala for the purpose of business

RENEWED: At Havana, Cuba on 2 separate occasions: 13 February 1959 and 5 June 1959, for a period of approximately two on both renewal forms, countries to visit and purpose of visit not given.

EAG/nch
APPROVED
CONFIDENTIAL

---

14-00000

MIAMI FIELD OFFICE
6 December 1966

ATTENTION: Security Division

SUBJECT: WINFRED CLARK BARNES
Ad Hoc Clearance
REFERENCE: A 89744

WINFRED CLARK BARNES is granted ad hoc clearance through
Security checks will be completed.

REAL. THORNE
Liaison Officer

GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
SECURITY MESSAGE 1150

---

14-00000
16 NOV 1966
Miami (Gleichaux)
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 14 November 1966
BIOGRAPHIC DATA A-89744

1. SUBJECT'S LAST NAME FIRST NAME - MIDDLE NAME
BARNES, Winfred Clark

2. ALIASES REUSED NO.

3. DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH
1 May 1912, Gatesville, Texas

4. SEX 5. CITIZENSHIP
M US

6. FULL NAME OF SPOUSE, DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH, CITIZENSHIP

7. RESIDENCES (Including No., and Street, Zone, R.F.D., etc.)
COMPLETE ADDRESS FROM TO
Present 5350 Southwest 76th Street
Miami, Florida

8. A# 136284
EMPLOYMENT CONTINUED
NAME OF EMPLOYER COMPLETE ADDRESS FROM TO
Esso Inter-America Inc. Coral Gables, Florida 1964 1966
International Petroleum Co. Coral Gables, Florida 1961 1964
Esso Standard Oil S.A., Ltd. Coral Gables, Florida 1960
Esso Standard Oil (Cuba Div) Havana, Cuba 1959
Esso Standard Oil, S.A. 1957
Humble Oil Company 1955

CONTINUED

9. EDUCATION (High school, college, graduate work, etc.)
NAME OF SCHOOL DEGREE OR MAJOR FROM TO
Pearsall High School Pearsall, Texas 1925 1929
University of Texas Austin, Texas 1930 1933
University of Pittsburg (15 session) 1955

CONTINUED

10. ADDITIONAL PERTINENT INFORMATION, INCLUDING FULL NAME. CITIZENSHIP DATA ON PARENTS AND CHILDREN.
16 NOV 1966
FORM B-007 USE PREVIOUS
MFG. EDITIONS
(4-43) CONTINUED

---

14-00000

MR. WINFRED CLARK BARNES
5350 Southwest 75th Street
Miami, Florida

BUSINESS
Subject is General Manager and in Cuba Division at:
5000049 - Esso Standard Oil SA, Havana, Cuba

Subject is now with:
A136284
DIRECTOR: Esso Inter-America Inc., Coral Gables, Florida

A0897

INACTIVE ACTIVATED
DATE 14 AUG 1953 DATE 12-13-6060
INITIALS BCS INITIALS

---

14-00000

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Miami Office

SUBJECT: Executive Leadership Conferences on Public Affairs
Control #6-8-97-44
1 May 1967

1. On Friday, 28 April 1967, the business executives attending the Conferences for Business Executives on Federal Government Operations, conducted by The Brookings Institution, were briefed by ranking Agency officials.

2. I have attached for your information biographic information on the executives from your area who were present.

Attachments: a/s

JPM: mg
James R. Murphy
JAMES R. MURPHY
Director, Domestic Contact Service

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification

---

14-00000

A89744 winfred Clark.
WINFRED C. BARNES
Director
Esso Inter-America Inc.

Mr. Barnes attended the University of Texas.

He began his career with Humble Oil & Refining Company, where he held various marketing positions before serving in the U. S. Army from 1942 to 1946. He rejoined Humble as a District Sales Supervisor at Corpus Christi, Texas, and later held the positions of District Manager, Assistant Division Manager, and Marketing Manager in several of Humble's marketing areas. He transferred to Esso Standard Oil, S.A. in Havana as Marketing Manager in 1957, and was General Manager - Cuba Division at the time of the loss of that operation in 1960. Upon his relocation in Coral Gables, Florida in 1960, he became Eastern Region Manager for Esso Standard Oil, S.A. Limited. Mr. Barnes joined International Petroleum Company, Ltd. as Marketing Coordinator in 1961 and was elected a Director of that company in 1964. Today he is a Director of Esso Inter-America Inc., with responsibility for petroleum marketing, public relations, government relations, and operations in the Caribbean and Chile.

---

14-00000
INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

COUNTRY Cuba
REPORT NO. 00-B-3,168,138
SUBJECT Attitude of Segundo Cevallos, DATE DISTR. 6 Oct 60
Key Official of National Bank
NO. PAGES One
REFERENCES
DATE OF INFO. Sep 60 and earlier
PLACE & DATE ACQ. Havana/Sep 60
SOURCE: THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION
US national, graduate engineer, an official on the staff of a large oil company.

Source has had years of experience in company operations outside the US and has been located in Cuba for many years. [Source is normally available for reinterrogation should this report generate additional requirements.]

1. In Sep 60 I talked to an old friend who was president of one of the US-owned tire companies recently intervened by the Castro regime. My friend stated that he had recently contacted Segundo Cevallos, one of the top officials of the National Bank, in connection with obtaining approval for some of the company's US technicians to take their furniture and appliances out of Cuba. Cevallos said, "I don't want those technicians to leave. We need them." At this, the rubber company official stated that it was too late and that the technicians had already gone.

2. Cevallos then made the statement that he was very much concerned about the flight of technicians of all kinds from Cuba. He said that the revolution had been fought to give Cuba a more highly developed industry, but that the technicians were leaving and industry was being seriously effected.

3. Cevallos then said, "Something is wrong. The revolution has gotten off the track somewhere." He then added, "I have got to talk to 'Che' about this."

4. Cevallos is a man of about 60-63 years, and has a very important position, in that he is in charge of granting foreign exchange. My friend said that Cevallos is a very pleasant individual but seems to be a theorist, a professorial type who obviously has had little or no business experience. He has a background as a writer and philosopher, and apparently is extremely naive as evidenced by his comment that he would talk to "Che" Guevara about how the revolution had gotten off the track.

-end-

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

STATE
ARMY
NAVY
AIR
FBI
AEC
INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT
NOFORN
NO DISSEM ABROAD
LIMITED
LIMITED: Dissemination limited to full-time employees of CIA, AEC and FBI; and, within State and Defense, to the intelligence components, other offices producing NIS elements, and higher echelons with their immediate supporting staffs. Not to be disseminated to consultants, external projects or reserve personnel on short term active duty (excepting individuals who are normally full-time employees of CIA, AEC, FBI, State or Defense) unless the written permission of the originating office has been obtained through the Assistant Director for Central Reference, CIA.

---

14-00000:

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws. Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which, in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

COUNTRY Cuba
REPORT NO. 00-B-3,168,139
SUBJECT Anti-Castro Attitude of ICP Personnel DATE DISTR. 6 Oct 60
DATE OF INFO. Sep 60 and earlier
PLACE & DATE ACQ. Havana/Sep 60 and earlier
SOURCE: THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION
US national, graduate engineer, an official on the staff of a large oil company.

Source has had years of experience in company operations outside the US and has been located in Cuba for many years. [Source is normally available for reinterrogation should this report generate additional requirements.]

1. As of Sep 60 there appear to be some significant developments occurring among personnel of the staff of the Cuban Petroleum Institute. The Institute has commandeered a building of Esso Standard Oil SA for use as headquarters, and is currently engaged in mixing the personnel of all three intervened oil companies in the new headquarters.

2. The shuffling around of personnel has further lowered the morale of the petroleum industry employees, and I have been told that 95% are strongly in favor of the companies and against the Castro regime.

3. Since ICP established its new offices, indoctrination sessions of employees have been scheduled on a twice-a-week basis. The first session was held recently and was concerned with the "Colored Problem of the World". The gist of the remarks of the conference leader was that Cubans were of Spanish ethnic origin, and because of the close ties of Spaniards and the Moors for so many hundreds of years it had to be realized that all Cubans had colored blood, and should not make a distinction and should have no prejudices concerning people with colored blood.

4. The second indoctrination session was headed by an overt Communist from the Texas Company. He delivered the straight Party Line, anti-US, anti-imperialist, anti-monopoly, "The Soviet Union is the great hope of the world for peace", and only Communist ideology will survive, etc. He also stated that, "The Declaration of Havana of Fidel Castro will be our doctrine," and said that it was desired to obtain the signatures of the whole population of Cuba to show that everyone was behind this doctrine. He then said in response to a question regarding what would happen to those who did not sign, "You are either for us or against us."

5. At this, one of the office girls who had been a strong Fidelista got up and remarked that such comments reminded her of the Batista days, and she strongly disapproved of any pressure tactics.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N

STATE
ARMY
NAVY
AIR
FBI
AEC
INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT
NOFORN
NO DISSEM ABROAD
LIMITED
LIMITED: Dissemination limited to full-time employees of CIA, AEC and FBI; and, within State and Defense, to the intelligence components, other offices producing NIS elements, and higher echelons with their immediate supporting staffs. Not to be disseminated to consultants, external projects or reserve personnel on short term active duty (excepting individuals who are normally full-time employees of CIA, AEC, FBI, State or Defense) unless the written permission of the originating office has been obtained through the Assistant Director for Central Reference, CIA..

---

14-00000
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
00-B-3,168,139

7. One of the male office employees then stood and stated that he agreed heartily with her, and added that it was not the intent of the revolution to "get into this sort of business." He then asked, "Why are we getting all this Communist propaganda and why do we not hear anything about Jose Marti?" His comments were greeted with applause.

8. A third employee stood and talked for 45 minutes. He really laid it on the line concerning the way the revolution had failed the people of Cuba, and had leaned far too much toward Communism. The conference leader did not interrupt and following the conclusion of the employee's remarks did not even answer. He merely said, "That is all", got up and walked out. However, the next scheduled indoctrination session was cancelled.

9. Although mixing the employees of the three companies was done deliberately to break up a feeling of trust among employees who knew each other, and to introduce a feeling of fear concerning strangers, there has been close cooperation on the technical level between employees of at least two refineries. For example, technicians at Esso and Shell recently collaborated in shutting down the refineries without real justification, allegedly because of Hurricane Donna. When the word got out that the refineries were shutting down, ICP officials rushed in and protested vigorously that there was no danger, and that the action should not be taken. The technicians then said, "Well, it is too late now," and they kept the refineries shut down for three full days. Both Shell and Esso technicians concerned enjoyed this minor act of sabotage hugely.

10. They also cooperated in delaying action when they were ordered to start the cat plant. LPG is needed badly, so the technicians decided to keep the unit shut down. ICP officials screamed that it was unnecessary and ordered them to start, but the technicians said that it was not practical because it was too difficult, and possibly dangerous, to stop and start the unit. They said that the shortage of catalysts made it impossible to figure on keeping the unit going, and so it was not the right thing to do to start it at all. Consequently they have been able to keep the cat units shut down completely since the storm.

11. One of the top Shell engineers who has participated in such actions is going to attempt to skip the country as a test, because many other technicians of the oil companies are desperate to flee Cuba and are trying to arrange ways and means to do so.

-end-
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
NO DISSEM ABROAD
LIMITED

---

14-00000
INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

COUNTRY Cuba
REPORT NO. 00-A-3,168,137
SUBJECT Desire of Oil Industry Technicians DATE DISTR. 29 Aug 60
to Flee Cuba/Effect on Production
NO. PAGES Two
REFERENCES
DATE OF INFO. Sep 60 and earlier
PLACE & DATE ACQ. Havana/Sep 60 and earlier
SOURCE: THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION
US national, graduate engineer, an official on the staff of a large oil company.

Source has had years of experience in company operations outside the US and has been located in Cuba for many years. [Source is normally available for reinterrogation should this report generate additional requirements.]

1. A real body-blow could be given the Castro regime if a few selected technicians in the oil refineries skipped the country. As an example, at the Esso refinery there are four technicians whose loss would have a very severe effect on the production of the refinery. These men are all young, extremely intelligent, well trained, and are completely loyal to the company. They have served immediately below the superintendent and the assistant superintendent. These four would be given immediate jobs in the US, because of their outstanding backgrounds, if they were able to get out of Cuba.

2. The top figure of the four is Leon Requin Mays, who is a specialist in the Processing Department, one of the most important functions in the plant. This department's responsibilities deal with the physical processing of the product from crude to the finished material.

3. Requin is 32 years old, married, no children, but expecting a child in Dec 60. He is a graduate of Auburn University, with a degree in chemical or mechanical engineering. He is a Cuban national, I believe of the Jewish faith. He is about 5'10", weighs about 160 lbs, has close cropped black hair, and is a very personable, intelligent young man. He is a very good leader, and was definitely one of the men on their way up in the company.

4. Requin already has been branded a counterrevolutionary in an official Acta, and has been taken out of the plant and put into the office. Apparently the regime wanted to get him away from the production line for fear of possible sabotage, and also wanted to utilize his undoubted talent and knowledge of the industry in headquarters.

5. Requin is extremely eager to get out of Cuba, but he does not have a police exit permit, and since he has been branded counterrevolutionary he is afraid he would not get his passport back if he presented it for a police permit.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-

STATE
ARMY
NAVY
AIR
FBI
AEC
CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY
INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT
NOFORN
NO DISSEM ABROAD
LIMITED
LIMITED: Dissemination limited to full-time employees of CIA, AEC and FBI: and, within State and Defense, to the intelligence components, other offices producing NIS elements, and higher echelons with their immediate supporting staffs. Not to be disseminated to consultants, external projects or

---

14-00000
CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

6. Another outstanding young man is Requin's assistant, Jose Ramon Alvarez, about 31. He is a graduate of Auburn University and is a top flight engineer. Since Alvarez is single, he says that he will wait until the others get out of Cuba. He also wants to hang back to be able to do some sabotage before he makes his departure. He believes that he will be able to get out on his own.

7. A third top flight mechanical engineer, who is extremely eager to leave Cuba, is Santiago Pardo Suarez del Villar. He is about 35, a graduate of the University of Havana. Pardo is head of Maintenance and Construction, and is an extremely intelligent and capable engineer. He is about 5'8", weighs about 170 lbs, and has dark black hair and a moustache.

8. The fourth is Raul Capote Ortiz, a graduate of Louisiana State University with the degree in chemical engineering. Capote is one of the top technicians in the Processing Department. He is married, but I do not know if he has any children.

-end-
CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
NOFORN
NO DISSEM ABROAD
LIMITED

---

14-00000
INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18. U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

COUNTRY Cuba
REPORT NO: 00-B-3,164,609
SUBJECT Operations of Refineries/Effect of Use DATE DISTR. 23 Aug 60
of Soviet Crude Oil/Jet Fuel Production
NO. PAGES Two
REFERENCES
DATE OF INFO. Aug 60 and earlier
PLACE & DATE ACQ. Havana/Aug 60 and earlier
SOURCE: THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION
US national, graduate engineer, an official on the staff of a large oil company.

Source has had years of experience in company operations outside the US and has been located in Cuba for many years. [Source is normally available for reinterrogation should this report generate additional requirements.]

1. As of Aug 60 the three major refineries confiscated by the Castro regime are operating in fairly good shape. Their principal problem is that the Soviet crude being supplied is very light and they cannot run as much volume because gas pressure builds up. The Esso refinery, for example, has a capacity of 36 thousand bbls per day on heavy crude, but 26 thousand bbls per day is the best they have been able to do on the Soviet crude, and it has been running at a rate of only 20 thousand bbls per day since 20 Jul 60.

2. The Soviet crude available to date has been compatible with the refineries and will not damage them, but in addition to not being able to get as much volume, the refineries cannot get as much fuel oil because of light ends. This is true of all three major refineries.

3. The refineries were designed for 26 gravity crude which is fairly heavy. The Soviet crude is 33 gravity, and has caused an imbalance in that they are now producing more gasoline than is needed. As a consequence, Cuba is searching desperately for fuel oil. The USSR has said that it is not in a position to supply fuel oil and so Cuba has turned toward Mexico, even to the extent of attempting to arrange deals whereby they will trade gasoline for fuel oil.

4. The imbalance of gasoline is indicated by the fact that the Cabaiguan refinery was shut down recently because its gasoline storage was completely filled.

5. Cuba will reach a critical point about 1 Sep 60. The Esso refinery slowed down from 26 thousand bbls per day to 20 thousand bbls per day because it had only a 10-day supply of crude. The supply on hand was sufficient to last only until 14 Aug, but around 11 Aug the refinery was supposed to receive a shipment of 80 thousand barrels of crude. However, this is only enough to operate four days.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
19 SEP 1960

STATE
ARMY
NAVY
AIR
FBI
AEC
INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT
NOFORN
NO DISSEM ABROAD
LIMITED
LIMITED: Dissemination limited to full-time employees of CIA. AEC and FBI; and, within State and Defense, to the intelligence components, other offices producing NIS elements, and higher echelons with their immediate supporting staffs. Not to be disseminated to consultants, external projects or reserve personnel on short term active duty (excepting individuals who are normally full-time employees of CIA, AEC, FBI, State or Defense) unless the written permission of the originating office has been obtained through the Assistant Director for Central Reference, CIA.

---

14-00000
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage laws, Title 18. U.S.C. Sect. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

COUNTRY Cuba
REPORT NO. 00-B-3,164,652
SUBJECT Shortage of Lubricating oil/ DATE DISTR. 23 Aug 60
Operating Supplies for Refineries/
Ship Bunkerage
NO. PAGES Two
REFERENCES
DATE OF INFO. Aug 60
PLACE & DATE ACQ. Havana/Aug 60
SOURCE: THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION
US national, graduate engineer, an official on the staff of a large oil company.

Source has had years of experience in company operations outside the US and has been located in Cuba for many years. [Source is normally available for reinterrogation should this report generate additional requirements.]

1. As of Aug 60 there is a shortage of lubricating oil in Cuba which will become critical in a fairly short time. Great efforts have been made by the Castro regime to obtain lubricating oil from US suppliers, and a vessel, the Mar Carite, has visited a number of US ports attempting to obtain the oil. However, it has been refused everywhere and had to return to Cuba in ballast. As of 10 Aug 60 it is loading molasses for delivery to Boston, and will then proceed to Montreal in an attempt to obtain lubricating oil.

2. A former Esso employee, Frank García, left Cuba on 2 Aug 60 for Mexico to try to obtain lubricating oil. He is going to visit the Mobile blending plant, PEMEX, and several others.

3. A US national recently employed by ICP to attempt to arrange for the purchase of necessary supplies and spare parts for the oil industry has been traveling throughout the SW part of the US, also attempting to arrange for lubricating oil, but with no success. This individual is such an unsavory character that it is not beyond the bounds of probability that he might "go south" with the funds entrusted to him, which are considerable.

4. There are 20 principal types of lubricating oil needed for the total economy, and the actual status of supply of each is not known. They may be completely out of some and have six months supply of others. However, the general story is that there is a "one month supply" of lubricating oil available.

5. Lubricants for power plants, transportation, and communications are the primary concern. They are in critically short supply in diesel lubricants for engines and heavy equipment, and turbine oil for power plants. There is no lubricating oil manufactured on the island although the Castro regime is trying to set up a plant. However, this is a long range project and takes a lot of time and money.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
SEP 1960

STATE
ARMY
NAVY
AIR
FBI
AEC
INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT
NOFORN
NO DISSEM ABROAD
LIMITED
LIMITED: Dissemination limited to full-time employees of CIA, AEC and FBI: and, within State and Defense, to the intelligence components, other offices producing NIS elements, and higher echelons with their immediate supporting staffs. Not to be disseminated to consultants, external projects or reserve personnel on short term active duty (excepting individuals who are normally full-time employees of CIA, AEC, FBI, State or Defense) unless the written permission of the originating office has been obtained through the Assistant Director for Central Reference, CIA.

---

14-00000
INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

COUNTRY Cuba
REPORT NO. 00-B-3,164,653
SUBJECT Friction in New Management of DATE DISTR. 23 Aug 60
Esso Refinery
NO. PAGES One
REFERENCES
DATE OF INFO. Aug 60 and earlier
PLACE & DATE ACQ. Havana/Aug 60 and earlier
SOURCE: THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION
US national, graduate engineer, an official on the staff of a large oil company.

Source has had years of experience in company operations outside the US and has been located in Cuba for many years. [Source is normally available for reinterrogation should this report generate additional requirements.]

1. On 1 Jul 60 the Castro regime intervened the Esso refinery in Cuba. The interventor appointed was Commander Olivio Pino, a career officer in the Cuban Navy. The number two man is (fnu) Guardia, about 35, a former marketing analyst in the office of the company. As of Aug 60 there is evidence of definite friction between Pino and Guardia.

2. Commander Pino is an intelligent, affable, and hospitable personality. He wears a business suit, and to the best of my knowledge has never worn a barbudo beard.

3. Guardia, on the other hand, is a real hard-core Communist, who feels that Pino is too soft and not revolutionary enough. Guardia wants to take a hard line toward the employees. He wants to cut salaries and "get things in line." Pino knows that such abrupt changes would result in a drastic drop in efficiency, and would alienate employees who are at least neutral at present.

4. There are indications that Pino recently told Guardia in effect to stay in the office and keep his mouth shut.

5. Pino is directly under Alfredo Gutiérrez of ICP, and both are friends and associates of Fidel Castro, not Raúl, or "Che" Guevara. If something happens to Fidel, both Pino and Gutiérrez would definitely be replaced quickly, because they are not the hard-boiled Party line type.

-end-
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
7 SEP 1960

STATE
ARMY
NAVY
AIR
FBI
AEC
INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT
NO DISSEM ABROAD
LIMITED
NOFORN
LIMITED: Dissemination limited to full-time employees of CIA, AEC and FBI; and, within State and Defense, to the intelligence components, other offices producing NIS elements, and higher echelons with their immediate supporting staffs. Not to be disseminated to consultants, external projects or reserve personnel on short term active duty (excepting individuals who are normally full-time employees of CIA, ABC, FBI, State or Defense) unless the written permission of the originating office has been obtained through the Assistant Director for Central Reference, CIA.

---

14-00000
INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18. U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

COUNTRY Cuba
REPORT NO. 00-A-3164654
SUBJECT Leonel de Paula Arias, Oil Industry DATE DISTR. 17 Aug 60
Procurement Agent (Biographic)
NO. PAGES One
REFERENCES
DATE OF INFO. Aug 60 and earlier
PLACE & DATE ACQ. Havana/Aug 60 and earlier
SOURCE: THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION
US national, graduate engineer, an official on the staff of a large oil company.

Source has had years of experience in company operations outside the US and has been located in Cuba for many years. [Source is normally available for reinterrogation should this report generate additional requirements.].

1. In Aug 60 the Castro regime sent two representatives to the US to attempt to obtain replacement parts and machinery for the oil industry. One of these men is Julio Caunedo, on the staff of