14-00000

104-10172-10248 - | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS
TO ACTION BRANCH
1. Fill in Section
2. On back. Detach back
flap and forward to RID. MAY 24 5 PM
2. Destroy front cover sheet unless it
records significant action taken or
comments requiring preservation.
FROM:
If file no. and title shown are not
proper, insert proper file no. below
and forward document to RID/AN.

PROPER FILE NO.

RID/

TO ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION ON BACK. IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

MICROFILMED
JUN 1963
DOC. MICRO. SER.

TRACE
REQUEST

DATE MICROFILMED

FILE TITLE

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY)
201-99355

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

DISPATCH

CHIEF OF BASE, BONN

SUBJECT: REDCAP LUIMPROVE AELADLE
AELADLE LEAD

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

MICROFILMED
JUN 2 1963
DOC. MICRO. SER.

(1. DURING A MEETING WITH [WEYDE] ON 21 MAY 63 HE REFERRED
TO HIS VISIT TO WASHINGTON TO DEBRIEF AELADLE. HE STATED THAT ON
ONE OCCASION, WHILE HE AND DR. MEIER WERE RIDING IN A CAR WITH AELADLE,
AELADLE CASUALLY REFERRED BY NAME TO A KGB OFFICER PRESENTLY ASSIGNED
IN GERMANY, COMMENTING THAT HE KNEW THE INDIVIDUAL VERY WELL AND
KNEW THAT HIS POLITICAL VIEWS WERE THE SAME AS HIS OWN, BUT THAT
WESTERN INTELLIGENCE SHOULD LEAVE THE INDIVIDUAL ALONE AS HE WOULD
PROBABLY ONE DAY MAKE THE SAME DECISION AS AELADLE ON HIS OWN.

2. BY THE TIME [WEYDE] REALIZED THE SIGNIFICANCE OF WHAT
AELADLE WAS SAYING THE NAME HAD SLIPPED BY AND NEITHER HE NOR
CDR. MEIER WAS ABLE, OR FELT HE COULD, ASK FOR THE NAME AGAIN. AFTER
LEAVING AELADLE BOTH [WEYDE] AND [MEIER] TRIED TO RECALL THE NAME OF THE
INDIVIDUAL BUT COULD ONLY AGREE THAT THE NAME BEGAN WITH AN "A".
IN REVIEWING THE PRESENT SOVIETS ASSIGNED IN THE GFR WHOSE NAMES
BEGIN WITH "A", [WEYDE] TENDS TO THINK THE NAME MENTIONED MIGHT HAVE
BEEN AKHLUYEN (201-294346), ALTHOUGH HE IS FAR FROM CERTAIN ON THIS
POINT.

3. WE HAVE VERY LIMITED INFORMATION IN OUR FILES ON AKHLUYEN
AND NONE INDICATING KGB AFFILIATION. HE ARRIVED AT THE STM ON
16 FEBRUARY 61 ALONG WITH HIS WIFE, IS CARRIED BY THE [BFVJAS] AN
EMPLOYEE OF THE TRADE MISSION, AND RESIDES WITHIN THE TRADE MISSION
BUILDING.

4. THE ABOVE LEAD, ALTHOUGH VERY SKETCHY, APPEARS DEFINITELY
WORTH PURSUING AND WE WONDER IF IT WOULD BE POSSIBLE TO QUERY AELADLE
SOME MANNER. [WEYDE] HAD THE IMPRESSION THAT AELADLE DESIRED TO PROTECT
THE INDIVIDUAL FROM ANY INTELLIGENCE APPROACHES BASED ON HIS INFORMATION
SO HE HAS PROBABLY NOT SUBMITTED ANY DETAILS. IT MAY, HOWEVER, PROVE
PROFITABLE TO REVIEW WITH AELADLE AGAIN SOME OF THE SOVIETS ASSIGNED IN
WEST GERMANY AND WORK IN ALL THE "A" NAMES. AELADLE MIGHT THUS GIVE
SOME INFORMATION WHICH WOULD HELP US TO ESTABLISH THE IDENTITY OF THE
INDIVIDUAL HE MENTIONED IN THE CAR. PLS ADVISE IF THIS IS POSSIBLE.

DISTRIBUTION

3 EE
1 SR
2 CCS/G
2 FCB
BY POUCH
1 EC

LESTER S. REDMILES
CS COPY
CROSS REFERENCE TO
DATE TYPED
24 MAY 63 TOR-
201-97783
DATE DISPATCHED

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
EGNA-25831
HEADQUARTERS FILE PRIMER
