```markdown
14-00000

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

PERSONAL INFORMATION
(3 documents)

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

GROZDEA, Ion (D.) (qv) 201-168880

Health Unions Federations pres.; was elected to the
RPR Standing Committee for the Defense of Peace accd.
to "Scanteia".

CIA-P-99946

RUMANIA

Descriptors/12
An; log. PressReview#1515
Brit. leg. PressReview#2484
9 Dec., '52

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

Sent to RIDIAN
23 Dec. 70
• HKHW-1847 4 Sept. 56
• HKHW- 1905 16 Oct. 56
• HKH A-3115 3 Nov. 56
• HKHA-3314 17 Jan. 57
• HKHA-3418 1 Feb 57
• HKHA - 3583 5 May 57
• HKH W 0282 27 May 57
• HKHW-2362 23 July 57
• HKHW-2422 12 Sept. 57
• HKHA-4025 8 Nov 57
• HKHW-5825 14 Jan. 58
• HMMW-5826 16 Jan 58
• MEXI -1364 10 April 58
• HMMW- 6377 20
• HAVA 16 (IN 48405) 22 May 58
• MEX ) -1364 10 Sept 57
201-168881
201-168881
201-168881
201-168881
201-168881
201-168881
201-168881
201-168881
201-168881
201-168881
201-168881
201-168881
201-168881
201-168881
FAST BENGAL

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VIA AIR
(Specify Air or Sea Pouch)

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

TO: Chief of Station, Mexico City DATE
FROM: Chief, WHD
GENERAL: Operational
SUBJECT: Harold R. NOEMAYR (ps)
SPECIFIC:
Reference: DIR 19152 dated 25 April 1958
Action Required: None.

DISPATCH NO. HMM-6377
201-32723
1 MAY 1958

Attached herewith for your information and records is a copy of the
Letter of Cover Instructions signed by on 16 May 1958.

19 May 1958

Attachment:
1, (4 pages)

Distribution:
3 - Mexico City
1 - WH/Mailroom (w/att)
1 - WH/III (w/att)
1 - RI (w/att)
WH/III/Mexico/CZehring: ngs

C. KING
CHIEF, WHD

(Coordinating officer)

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

FORM NO. 51-29
JUN 1949

EXTRACT
HMMW 6377
DATE 24 May 58

R. N. DAHLGREN, C/WH/III
(Authenticating officer)
201-168881
201-32723

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VIA AIR
(Specify Air or Sea Pouch)

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

TO: Chief of Station, Mexico City DATE 14 Jan 58
FROM: Chief, WHD
GENERAL: Operational
SUBJECT: Ross Lester CROZIER
SPECIFIC:
REF: HMM-5826 (KAPOK).

DISPATCH NO. HMM-5825
201-32723

1. Personal data on Subject is forwarded for station's information
in connection with the proposal contained in reference, which is being
pouched separately.

2. Rose Lester CROZIER was born on 20 June 1922 in De Kalb, Illinois,
the oldest of five children in a middle class family which now resides
in Sterling, Illinois. In December 1945 he married Argentina de los Angeles
CORDERO Calderon, a Costa Rican citizen, born in San Juan, R., on 15
March 1918. They have two children: Rose Arnulfo, R; and Lillian Caridad.
Subject and his family currently reside in Havana, Cuba.

3. Subject received primary and high school education in Dekalb and
worked at odd jobs until 1940, when he entered the Armed Forces, serving
first in the Army, then in the Air Force. Between 1941 and 1945 he served
as an Intelligence Specialist in the Panama Canal Zone and in the India-
Burma Theater. Discharged at the end of the war, he worked briefly in
Illinois, then returned to the Canal Zone at the end of 1945 and obtained
civilian employment with the U.S. Navy. In April 1946 he re-enlisted in
the Air Force and again served as an Intelligence Specialist until the
expiration of his term of service in April 1949, at which time he was
discharged with the rank of Technical Sergeant.

4. Upon discharge he went from the Panama Canal Zone to Costa Rica,
where his wife's family resides, and from April 1949 to March 1953 he
worked as a free lance photographer in San Juan. During this period he
resumed his studies attending economics courses at the University of
Costa Rica. He returned to the United States during the latter part of
1953, resided in Washington, then for a few months attended the University
of San Carlos in Guatemala City, until May 1954. Shortly after he transferred
to the School of Economic Sciences of the University of Havana which he
attended until 1957. Subject financed the first few years of his advanced
education under the G.I. program. During his stay in Havana, Subject began

(Coordinating officer)
SECRET
(Authenticating officer)
201-168881
201-168881

FORM NO. 51-29
JUN 1949
CLASSIFICATION

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000

Page two 201-32723

working on polling studies for the Public Surveys Institute of Dallas,
Texas which employs him at present.

5. Subject is 6'1" tall, slender built, athletic (1954 Guatemalan
national record in discus, track, high and broad jump, etc); is a pistol
expert; has some experience as a radio operator; is an accomplished
photographer and has designed and directed a photographic laboratory in
Costa Rica.

6. Subject speaks and reads Spanish fluently and except for his height
and Anglo Saxon appearance could pass as a native of Latin American countries.
Subject became a Catholic convert shortly after his marriage.

7. Subject's wife was educated at the Liceo de Senoritas in San Jose,
C.R., and has travelled extensively. Her father was born in Cuba, attended
the Spanish Military Academy and served in Spanish Morocco. In 1933/34
he was involved in Cuban politics and was forced to take refuge in Costa
Rica, where he resided until his death in 1939. Her mother, who resides with
Subject's family, retains an interest in Costa Rican and Cuban political
affairs but takes no active part in politics.

8. A copy of a 1949 photograph of Subject is attached. Further
information is contained in reference, forwarded under separate pouch.

9. The information given above is based on a PRG and a PS compiled
by Subject respectively in 1948 and 1956 and on observations made by
KUBARK officers who have been acquainted with him.

J. C. KING
CHIEF, WHD

6 January 1958

Distribution:
3 - Mexico City
1 - WH/Mailroom
1 - WH/III/Carono
- RI
1 - Subject
WH/III/Mexico/Spera:jck

COORDINATE WITH:
WH/Carib
WH/Personnel

R. N. DAHLGREN, C/WH/III
(Authenticating officer)
201-168881

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VIA AIR
(Air or Sea Pouch)

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

TO: Chief of Station, Habana DATE
FROM: Chief, WHD
GENERAL: Operational/KUCAGE
SUBJECT: Arthur C. VAIVADA
SPECIFIC:
Reference: HKH-A-2197, dated 9 August 1956 201-32723
Action Required: None

DISPATCH NO. HKHW-1847
SEP 4

Regarding clearance
to discuss PP activities
under the Station -

Headquarters feels that in the situation outlined in reference and
within the limitations set forth in reference, no additional operational
clearance for Subject is necessary.

J. C. KING
Chief, WHD

28 August 1956

Distribution:
3 - Habana
1 - RI/D&P
1 - WH/Mailroom
1 - WH/III/Cuba
1 - WH/III/Cuba/Kent:g

W. GALBRAITH, C/WH/III
(Authenticating officer)
201-168881

FORM NO. 51-29
JUN 1949
SECRET
CLASSIFICATION

--- Page 8 ---

14-00000

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VIA AIR
(Specify Air or Sea Pouch)

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

TO: Chief of Station, Habana DATE 28 May 1957
FROM: Chief, WHD
GENERAL: Operational/MUTUES
SUBJECT: Arthur G. VAIVADA
SPECIFIC:
Action Required: None

DISPATCH NO. HKH-W-2282
201-32723

1. During his recent visit to Headquarters, Subject was asked by one
of the Staff members if he would be interested in, and available for,
recruitment approaches in various Latin American countries. Since Subject
has a fine record in CP penetration work, his outstanding job in
handling HUMANOID-3 operation in Costa Rica and his efforts in the CP pene-
tration program in Cuba), it is believed that he would be effective
recruiter of possible CP defectors.

2. Subject stated that he was keenly interested in, and would like to
engage in, such operations and would welcome the opportunity of being asked
to hit a well-chosen target in any Spanish speaking Latin American country.

3. The foregoing discussion with Subject was informal and without
commitment on either side. However, the Station is being alerted to the
possibility that Subject may be requested to perform such approaches at
such time when worthwhile recruitment in place CP targets are developed,
or otherwise arise in other countries. Nevertheless, any such action origi-
nating at Headquarters or at any other Station, will of course be subject to
Station's consideration and approval beforehand, depending on his
availability in reference to his work in Project AMPHODARCH, etc.

Distribution:
3 - Habana
1 - RI
1 - WH/Mailroom
1 - WH/Cuba/Chrono
1 - Subject

J. C. KING, Chief, WHD
(Releasing officer)
FORM NO. 51-29
JUN 1949
SECRET
CLASSIFICATION

W. GALBRAITH, C/WH/III
(Authenticating officer)
201-168881

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VIA AIR
(Specify Air or Sea Pouch)

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

TO: Chief of Station, Habana DATE 28 May 1957
FROM: Chief, WHD
GENERAL: Operational/MUTUES
SUBJECT: Arthur G. VAIVADA
SPECIFIC:
Action Requested: None

DISPATCH NO. HKH-W-2282
201-32723

1. During his recent visit to Headquarters, Subject was asked by one
of the Staff members if he would be interested in, and available for,
recruitment approaches in various Latin American countries. Since Subject
has a fine record in CP penetration work (outstanding his job in
handling HUMANOID-3 operation in Costa Rica and his efforts in the CP pene-
tration program in Cuba), it is believed that he would be effective
recruiter of possible CP defectors.

2. Subject stated that he was keenly interested in, and would like to
engage in, such operations and would welcome the opportunity of being asked
to hit a well-chosen target in any Spanish speaking Latin American country.

3. The foregoing discussion with Subject was informal and without
commitment on either side. However, the Station is being alerted to the
possibility that Subject may be requested to perform such approaches at
such time when worthwhile recruitment in place CP targets are developed,
or otherwise arise in other countries. Nevertheless, any such action origi-
nating at Headquarters or at any other Station, will of course be subject to
Station's consideration and approval beforehand, depending on his
availability in reference to his work in Project AMPHODARCH, etc.

Distribution:
3 - Habana
1 - RI
1 - WH/Mailroom
1 - WH/Cuba/Chrono
1 - Subject

J. C. KING, Chief, WHD
(Releasing officer)
FORM NO. 51-29
JUN 1949
SECRET
CLASSIFICATION

W. GALBRAITH, C/WH/III
(Authenticating officer)
201-168881

--- Page 10 ---

14-00000

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VIA AIR
(Specify Air or Sea Pouch)

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

TO: Chief of Station, Mexico City DATE 7 January 1958
FROM: Chief, WHD
GENERAL: Operational
SUBJECT: Proposed assignment of Arthur G. VAIVADA (P)
SPECIFIC:
REF: HMM-5825

DISPATCH NO. HMM-5826
201-32723
NE KATOK #599

ACTION REQUIRED: Station comments and/or concurrence

1. Subject is identified in reference which also gives his personal
data and is forwarded in a separate pouch. Paragraph 4 of that dispatch
outlines the cover activities of Subject for the period 1949 to the present,
during which he has been actually employed by KUBARK, first as a contract
agent then, since May 1957, as a career agent. He currently receives a
salary approximately equivalent to that of GS-11.

2. Subject's current, extended tour with the Havana station comes to
an end in May 1958; due to his operational experience and performance with
KUBARK in Costa Rica, Guatemala and Havana, Subject appears to be a good
prospect as a replacement for Floyd POSTANY in CP operations.

3. Originally scheduled to be used by KUBARK in Panama, Subject was
instead assigned to Costa Rica in 1949 under the HUMANOID project. While
the operational files of this project have not yet been reviewed by this
desk, entries in his personal file show that while in Costa Rica he handled
a successful high level penetration of the local party. At the end of
1953, after a period of training at Headquarters, he was assigned to
PBSUCCESS where he apparently also performed creditably. In July 1954 he
was re-assigned to the Havana station as the principal agent of project
AMPHODARCH which involves the recruitment and handling of CP penetrations
in that country. The AMPHODARCH and Subject's personal files have been
reviewed by this desk, together with the training and the assessments of
the case officers for whom he has worked, the files show that Subject is
eminently qualified as a recruiter and agent handler in CP operations.
The records show that Subject possesses a great deal of integrity, resource-
fullness and intelligence: he was highly rated both by Headquarters
training officers and throughout his operational work in the field. He is
particularly evaluated highly as to judgment and common sense.

(Releasing officer)
(Coordinating officer)
(Authenticating officer)
FORM NO. 51-29
JUN 1949
SECRET
CLASSIFICATION

--- Page 11 ---

14-00000

Page 2 201-32723

4. Should his assignment to Mexico Station be agreed upon, cover
possibilities can be considered in the fields of photography and athletic
training which are among Subject's specialties. He lists himself as a
"pistol expert" and a clarification of this term will be requested if, in
the Station's opinion, it may enlarge cover possibilities, perhaps under
LIMMIRKY. Subject's wife is still a Costa Rican citizen at present, while
his two children are U.S. citizens.

5. Station's comments on this proposed assignment and possible cover
suggestions will be welcome.

J. C. KING
CHIEF, WHD

7 January 1958

Distribution:
3 - Mexico City
1 - KAPOK/Chrono
1 - Subject
WH/III/Mexico/ASpera:jck

COORDINATE WITH:
WH/Carib
WH/Personnel

R. N. DAHLGREN, C/WH/III
(Authenticating officer)

--- Page 12 ---

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TO: DIRECTOR
FROM: MEXICO CITY

ACTION: WH 5
INFO: CI, CI/OPS, FI, FI/OPS 2, S/C 2

DATE 22 MAY 1958

ROUTING
6

REC'D CABLE SECT.
ROUTINE
IN 32413
CITE MEXI 1608
RE: MEXI 1468 (IN 22383 )
DIR 11212 (OUT 51534 )

PLEASE ADVISE ETA HAROLD R NOEMAYR.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.
201-168881

--- Page 13 ---

14-00000

Public Surveys Institute
General Polling Service

532 Fidelity Union Life Building
1511 Bryan Street
Dallas, Texas

Riverside 1-3674

Albert E. Johnson
Executive Director

LETTER HEAD STATIONARY USED BY THE
NOTIONAL COVER FIRM BACKSTOPPING
Harold R. NOEMAYR

--- Page 14 ---

14-00000

SECRET

Office Memorandum * UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO: SCO (Mr. Lustscher) DATE: 19 May 1958
FROM: Operations Division, Medical Staff

SUBJECT: Harold R. NOEMAYR (p)

Subject has been evaluated by the Medical Staff and found
qualified for proposed overseas assignment.

James R. Fearon
Administrative Officer

Distribution:
Orig. - Addresses
1 - WH/3 (Puckett)

SECRET
201-168881

--- Page 15 ---

14-00000

SECRET

C-1243 (Biladeau)
13 May 1958

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH Division
ATTENTION: WH/III/Mexico/Puckett

SUBJECT: Cover Story for Harold R. NOEMAYR (P)

1. Transmitted herewith is a copy of the cover story prepared
for Harold R. Noemayr.

2. You are requested to review the cover story, as well as
Noemayr's contract, to insure that the cover arrangements satisfy
the requirements involved. If the cover story meets with your
approval, please sign the copy of this memorandum in the space
provided and return it to this office.

3. The copy of the cover story should be forwarded to the
appropriate Chief of Station for retention in his files where it
can be reviewed by Noemayr whenever necessary.

JOHN G. SOUTHARD
CHIEF, CCB/NC

Attachment

SECRET

--- Page 16 ---

14-00000

SECRET

Mr. Harold B. Noemayr (P)
Washington, D.C.

Dear Mr. Noemayr: Your Cover

1. Cover has been contrived for you with two notional organizations,
Public Surveys Institute and Betwins Travel Folders.

2. Public Surveys Institute is a notional organization which is
ostensibly engaged in conducting all types of polls to determine public
reactions on matters of interest to its many clients. This organization
is located at Suite 532 Fidelity Union Life Building, 1511 Bryan Street,
Dallas, Texas, telephone: Riverside 1-3674. The Institute is directed
by Albert E. Johnson, a fictitious individual.

3. The above address is in actuality that of a telephone answering
service where all normal calls of inquiry are handled by unwitting
personnel during the course of their regular duties. However, any call
which requires special attention is referred to a cleared and witting
individual who has contact with headquarters. This person is adequately
prepared to acknowledge your relationship with your cover firm and also
answer any inquiries concerning you or your cover organization.

4. In addition to the above arrangement, you also have a contract
with another notional firm to submit photographs and reports which are
to be utilized in the preparation of travel brochures. This firm is
Betwins Travel Folders which is located at Room 2101, 50 East 42nd Street,
New York, New York, Telephone: Murray Hill 7-4473. Betwins is directed
by Charles E. Betwin, a fictitious individual, and is engaged in the
preparation of material for travel folders, brochures, package tours,
etc.

5. The above address for Betwins is in actuality located in the
office of a cleared attorney who is prepared to backstop both the cover
firm and your association with Betwins Travel Folders. This person
also has contact with headquarters.

6. You are engaged on a contract basis to provide photographs and
reports relating to possible tours, places of interest, eating establishments,
hotels, etc. This information is then edited by Betwins and sold to
various clients who desire travel folders.

7. You also have legitimate cover in the form of your free lance
photography and short story writing. The past publication of this work
can be used as a supplement to your Betwin cover.

SECRET

--- Page 17 ---

14-00000

SECRET

-2-

8. Your cover story for having been engaged by the Public Surveys
Institute is as follows:

During a visit to the United States in May 1957, you became
acquainted with Albert E. Johnson, the Director of Public Surveys
Institute. Johnson indicated that he was interested in engaging
the services of several people to organize and conduct polls in
various Latin American areas.

Since you were already located in Cuba and had a knowledge of
the language and customs, he expressed an interest in employing
you in Cuba. As you felt this type of work would not conflict
with your photographic efforts, you accepted the position effective
May 1, 1957, in order to have an extra source of income.

Early in 1958, Johnson advised you that he had acquired several
promising accounts who were interected in Mexico and he desired to
transfer you to Mexico City since you had both experience and the
necessary language qualification. You readily agreed to the
transfer and planned to leave for Mexico during the latter part
of May after a short vacation in the United States.

9. Your cover story for having been engaged by Betwins Travel
Folders is as follows:

While visiting in the United States during April 1958 prior to
your departure for Mexico, you became acquainted with Charles H.
Betwin through Albert Johnson in New York. Betwin had seen some
of your published work and expressed an interest in engaging your
services on a part-time basis in Mexico. Since it meant an
additional source of income as well as an opportunity to utilize
your photographic talents, you readily accepted his offer. You
were to photograph various places which were of interest to
Betwin's clients and also forward information relating to prices,
possible package tours, historical points of interest, etc.

Documentation

10. Correspondence reflecting your progress or difficulties
encountered should be carried on between you and your cover firms.
Such correspondence should be at intervals which would make your
association with your cover firms appear to be the normal relationship
of employer and employee.

SECRET

--- Page 18 ---

14-00000

SECRET

-3-

Financial Arrangements

11. It is understood that there actually will be no disbursement
of funds for salary or other purposes to you through your cover firm,
and therefore, arrangements for salary payments are a matter of concern
between you and your division case officer. However, precautions must
be taken to insure that the arrangements made will not conflict with
your cover story.

Taxes

12. Your income tax returns will be filed with the Internal
Revenue Tax Unit stationed at headquarters in accordance with
Agency FN 20-660-4.

Restrictions

13. Should you at any time feel the necessity for a modification
of this cover arrangement, or supplementing the cover outside of the
present arrangement, or if any problems arise affecting your cover,
direct a routine communication to your cover firms outlining the need
or situation and concurrently notify your case officer of the conditions
so that he may check with headquarters. Subsequently, you will receive
advice from your cover concerns as would be normal and also be provided
with official compatible instructions from your case officer.

14. With regard to any persons desiring to apply for a position
with either cover firm, you are instructed to state that to the best
of your knowledge and belief, the firms are adequately staffed. However,
in order the the matter may be treated casually, the inquirer may be
told to submit his application to the New York or Texas address, which
ever applies, where it will receive due consideration.

15. You understand that these cover facilities have been established
through cleared cooperative individuals who are vitting, but not actually
a part of the Agency. These persons know that you are actually an employee
of the Agency and, as such, an extremely high standard of conduct will be
expected of you.

16. A copy of this cover story will be retained in the station
files. You may refer to it when necessary.

SECRET

DATE

--- Page 19 ---

14-00000

I certify that I have read and
understand the above Letter of
Cover Instructions regarding my
cover and agree to comply with
it in every respect.

Distribution:
Orig.
CC: WH/III/Mexico/Puckett

B.H.
SECRET

--- Page 20 ---

14-00000

SECRET

12 May 1958

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division
VIA: FI/OPS (Miss Paxton)

SUBJECT: Arthur C. VAIVADA
Amendment of Contract

1. It is requested that Subject's contract effective
1 June 1957 be amended to include under Paragraph 4,
Allowances, that Subject be entitled to the Educational
Allowance for his children, effective from the initial date
of the contract.

2. The above provision was inadvertently omitted
from Subject's contract by the Area Desk, and since the
Station notified Subject he was entitled to this allowance,
it would be appreciated if this matter be corrected and
the contract amended accordingly. The error came to the
attention of the Area Deck when Subject's claim for
educational allowance dated 18 April 1958, was turned down
by Finance Division because of the aforementioned omission
from the contract.

J. C. King
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

SECRET
201-168881

--- Page 21 ---

14-00000

DATE 29 APRIL 1958

TO: DIRECTOR
FROM: MEXICO CITY

ACTION: WH 5
INFO: CI, CI/OPS, CI/IC, FI/OPS 2, S/C 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

APR 30 05 49.53
REC'D CABLE SECT.
ROUTINE
IN 22383
CITE MEXI 1468
RE: DIR. 19152 (OUT 70226 )

1. CONCUR PARAS 2 AND 3 REF.
2. RECOMMEND USE JEREMY A TOLKING.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: CONCERNED COVER SET UP BY HQS FOR THE TRAVEL OF NOEMAYR.

SECRET
201-168881
Copy No.
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

--- Page 22 ---

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ORIG: L. D. PUCKETT
UNIT: WHD
EXT: 2555
DATE: 25 APRIL 1958

TO: MEXICO CITY
FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: WH 5
INFO: CI, CI/OPS, CI/IC, FI/OFS 2, S/C 2

ROUTING

APR 25 19 46 257
REC'D CABLE SECT.
DEFERRED
PRIORITY
OPERATIONAL
ROUTINE INITIALS
IMMEDIATE
CITE DIR 19152

RE: A. DIR 16715 (OUT 64381)
B. MEXI 1446 (IN 20477)
C. HMMW-5826

1. SUB REF C ASSIGNED NEW PSEUDO HAROLD R. NOEMAYR.
2. APPRECIATE REF B SUGGESTION. HOWEVER, HQS ARRANGING NOEMAYR
BACKSTOPPED COVER AS REPRESENTATIVE NOTIONAL PUBLIC POLLING SERVICES
FIRM IN DALLAS, WHICH NOEMAYR USED IN CUBA, AND PHOTOGRAPHER AND COLLECTOR
OF TRAVEL DATA FOR NOTIONAL TRAVEL SERVICE FIRM IN NEW YORK WHICH SUPPLIES
TRAVEL INFO FOR PACKAGE TOURS. ALSO, HE WILL CONTINUE SUBMIT ARTICLES
TO BOYS LIFE MAGAZINE. BELIEVE ABOVE COVER WILL GIVE NOEMAYR GOOD
FLEXIBILITY AND MOBILITY AND WILL ELIMINATE MEXI NEED ARRANGE LOCAL COVER.

3. NOEMAYR PLANS ETA MEXI END MAY AS TOURIST. WILL ARRAIGE WORKING
PAPERS THRU STATION RECOMMENDED MEXI LAW FIRM.

4. REQUEST MEXI CONCURRENCE PARAS 2, AND 3 ABOVE.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: *STATION CONCURS. JOURNALISTIC COVER.

COORDINATED IN DRAFT WITH: CI/ICD/WH/MR. ANDERSON
COORDINATED BY PHONE WITH CCB/NC/AR. BILADEAU

J. C. KING, C/WHD
RELEASING OFFICER

R. N. DAHLGREN, C/WH/III
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.
201-168881

--- Page 23 ---

14-00000

DATE 24 APR-1958

TO: DIRECTOR
FROM: MEXICO CITY

ACTION: WH 5
INFO: CI, CI/OPS, CI/IC, FI, FI/OPS 2, S/C 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ROUTING

APR 25 08 37 257
REC'D CABLE SECT.
ROUTINE
IN 20477
CITE MEXI 1446

RE: DIR 16715 (OUT 64381 )

1. MR JOSEPH RAVOTTO, DEPUTY PAO, WHO KNOWS BENJAMIN
AS WELL AS ANY ONE IN EMBASSY STATES HE SOUND, RESPECTED
NEWS PAPER MAN WITH GOOD MEXI SOCIAL AND OFFICIAL CONTACTS.
OUR FILES, ODENVY AND BIOG SECTION EMB TRACES NEGATIVE.

2. STATION CONCURS JOURNALISTIC COVER.

3. IF HQS APPROVES STATION WILL HAVE TALK BENJAMIN IN ORDER
FURNISH DETAILS RE REIMBURSEMENT, FLEXIBILITY, DURABILITY AND
OTHER ASPECTS GOOD COVER. WOULD NOT MENTION ANY NAME OR
TARGET.

4. IF BENJAMIN UNDER CONSIDERATION URGE VAIVADA BE
PERMITTED MEET, EVALUATE AND AGREE COVER ACCEPTABLE. ADVISE.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: * CONCERNED VAIVADA COVER.

SECRET
201-168881
Copy No.
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

--- Page 24 ---

14-00000

SECRET

24 April 1958

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD:

SUBJECT: Commendation for Arthur G. VAIVADA

1. Arthur G. VAIVADA, a Career Agent, is hereby
commended for his outstanding performance and devotion to
duty in carrying out the assignment described below.

2. During the period 12 - 26 March 1958, VAIVADA,
by working his way into the mountain stronghold of the
Cuban rebel forces and winning their friendship, procured
timely and valuable intelligence and operational infor-
mation. While on this assignment, he worked under
conditions of personal risk and hardship.

3. This memorandum is written to be included as a
permanent record in Subject's personal file.

J. C. King
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

SECRET
201-168881

--- Page 25 ---

14-00000

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Office of Security
VIA: Chief, CI/CA

SUBJECT: Harold R. NOEMAYR (ps)
C-25507
#112569

17 April 1958

1. It is requested that the CSA granted Harold R. NOEMAYR (ps), formerly
called Arthur G. VAIVADA (ps), on 3 July 1957 for use in Cuba under Project
AMPHODARCH, be amended to permit his use in Mexico City. NOEMAYR will
be transferred PCS to Mexico City in May 1958 where he will be carried under
Project LIRIGE which is being prepared for submission to FI/Projects for
approval. Attached is a new PPQ Part II which covers our proposed use
of NOEMAYR in Mexico.

J. C. KING
Chief, WHD

--- Page 26 ---

14-00000

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief of Operations, DD/P
VIA: Chief, Central Cover Branch

SUBJECT: Journalistic Cover for Harold R. NOEMAYR (ps)

16 April 1958

1. Attached are the pertinent data pertaining to Subject's
background as required by CSI 206.

2. It is requested that approval be granted for Subject's use
of journalistic cover and that CCB