14-00000
104-10218-10097

SECRET

DATE:
TO: DIRECTOR
FROM: GUATEMALA CITY
ACTION: WH 8 (WH TEMPO COPY SLOTTED AT 1500 9 NOV)
INFO: CA 2, CA/P.G, CA/PROP, CI, CI/OPS, CI/IC 2, CI/OA, FI, BELL 5, S/C 2

NOV 9 1933Z.61.
PRIORITY:
REFS: A. GUAT. 1622
IN 20212
PRITY HEHI INFO PRITY DIR ROUTINE CARA CITE CUAT 1824 CHATEMAN ACTING
MEXI 9373 (NOT SENT CARA)

1. FURTHER INVESTIGATION SHOWS ANUPAS-1 TRIED LAND GUAT 3 NOV.
2. DENIED ENTRY DUE LACK TOURIST CARD, CREATED SCENE, TRIED PURCHASE CARD, DELAYED PLANE DEPARTURE SEVERAL MINUTES.
A-1 RETURNED CUAT 7 NOV. SUITCASE SEIZED PER REF A PARA 1.
A-1 STAYED HOME OF RODRIGO ASTURIAS AMADO, 12 AVENIDA AT 9 CALLE, NO. 12-12, ZONE 1. WAS ARRESTED THERE 0833 8 NOV. BY AGENTS OF GUARDIA JUDICIAL. STATION INFORMED A-1 CARRYING TWO U.S. PASSPORTS, NO. 273304 ISSUED 21 SEPT 1948 AND NO. 12434 ISSUED 22 SEPT 1953, AND THAT A-1 TO BE EXPELLED FROM CUAT 8 NOV ON CHARGE TRANSPORTING COMMIE PROPAGANDA.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

SECRET

DATE:
TO:
FROM:
ACTION:
INFO:

IN 20212
GUAT 1824

3. CONSUL ADVISED BY INMIGRATION 9 NOV THAT A-1 WAS TAKEN BY ROAD TO MEXI BORDER 8 NOV AND PUT ACROSS IN VICINITY TAPACHULA.
4. THIS CONFIRMED TO STATION BY COLONEL MONZON OF ESTADO MAYOR. ARREST AND EXPULSION GIVEN PROMINENT PRESS PLAY HERE AND AP STRINGER FILING STORY TO STATES.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: *ANUPAS 1 ARRIVED MEXI 3 NOV. DECIDED CONTINUE MEXI AND NOT PRESS ATTEMPT STOP GUAT.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
