1 104-10071-10122

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

DISPATCH NO. (HBDA-18622)
DATE 14 May 1955

TO Chief, FRA
FROM Senior Representative, New Delhi
SUBJECT: PARLIPPER - Transmittal of Reports

1. Transmitted herewith are copies of THERIAULT reports and notes as listed below. Not included are carbon copies of the initial report (plans undated) and the report covering the period 28 December - 14 January as the third copy was not made.

2. THERIAULT requested that, if possible, a set of his report be made available to him on his return to facilitate preparation of a master report on overall findings and impressions.

Enclosures Under separate cover
(Pouched 7 May 1955)

Thomas V. LUND

14 Jan - 23 Jan
25 Jan - 30 Jan
30 Jan - 8 Feb
8 Feb - 17 Feb
18 Feb (1 pp)
20 Feb - 8 Mar

7 Mar - 16 Mar
18 Mar - 30 Mar
Interview with U.S. HABAR
1 Apr - 12 Apr
Notebook

Distribution:
Orig & 4 - Eye
9 May 55 2 - Files

Project (PA)FLIPPER
Fold: 3
51-28 A

---

14-00000
SECRET

Preliminary Debriefing of Anita THERIAULT
T: 13 May 1955, 2030-2130
D: 14 May 1955

1. Prior to my departure for New York to handle the preliminary debriefing of THERIAULT, I discussed the following subjects with CNEA-5:

1) In view of the fact that THERIAULT's expenses on her recent trip to India have been greater than was anticipated, $1,000 additional funds have or are to be shortly deposited to her bank. This will be done by sterile check. It is to be accounted for under the terms of the original contract.

2) CNEA-5 suggested that I take her reports up with me for possible annotation and expansion. Upon examination on 14 May, this appears unfeasible in view of the fact that there are CIA code indicators and RI symbols attached directly to the reports.

3) CNEA-5 suggested that I pursue with THERIAULT the possibility of developing an interest in Krishna Menon, utilizing a cleared publisher who could request Menon to write a book. This approach to be based on Menon's acute susceptability to flattery.

4) CNEA-5 suggested that THERIAULT be asked to review the areas of her influence in order to lay the groundwork for an official invitation to visit this country being extended to the Prime Minister in the future. He suggested Sen. George and Chester Bowles as possible points of departure.

5) THERIAULT is to be informed that her reports have been of immeasurable assistance to the Ambassador and to the U.S. Government vis-a-vis policy planning for India.

6) THERIAULT is to be asked to come to Washington for a day or so in the very near future for further debriefing. This is to be arranged at her convenience.

7) In view of the fact that THERIAULT has been unwitting of the Agency's role in sponsoring her trip, I suggested that I now make her witting in terms of the security involved. It seemed advisable to me since it is likely that there will be future contacts with THERIAULT. CNEA-5 agreed to this.

8) THERIAULT is to be advised that she is at liberty to discuss any and all aspects of her trip with anybody with the exception of the Agency's role in sponsoring it.

Removed from Project PAFLIPPER
CS Classification: NONE
JCB #66-668/59
BOX: 5
Fold: #3

---

14-00000
SECRET

- 2 -

9) In view of the vast amount of work that must be done, I suggested that I plan to spend two days - 16 and 17 May - if it becomes necessary. On previous trips to discuss THERIAULT's mission with her, I found that she frequently had other commitments which made it difficult to cover adequately the material which I had amassed. If this is the case on this trip, I should prefer not to press her. One day's latitude seems the better part of wisdom. CNEA-5 agreed. We shall see, however.

10) In the event that it becomes necessary to reach me, I suggest that my wife be asked to get in touch with me, (Jackson 7-7018) and that I be asked simply to call my office. I will then call on the sterile phone. For the record, my telephone number in New York is (ELIAM 8-2530).

Pertram Cooper

---

Removed from Project PAFLIPPER
Classification NONE
JOB 066-668/59
Box:
Fold: #3
14-00000

General Comments.

1. I have not talked with many Ford Foundation people and many TCM people. Am impressed by their quality. They are working hard and are doing it in a self-effacing manner. I have not heard one criticism of them from anybody. There are a few ends, of course. I have not yet met them. They are here to help India carry out her projects and her ideas - no one put it. And they seem to do it not only democratically but with a very real warmth and sympathy. Yet they stay quietly in the background and take none of the credit. But I feel more strongly each week I am here that the work is solid and is having tremendously good effect in relieving tension and hostility between the two countries. The results of the actual work are apparent now and hope has recently increased among Indians; also their own self-confidence. When confidence increases, sensitiveness decreases, of course.

2. From all I have picked up, the feeling is widespread that Ambassador Allen did a good job out here. As one put it, "He was exactly right for the period he was here; just as Bowles was right for the special problems of his two years." Both Indian and Americans highly praise both men.

3. We have a prize in Evelyn Hersey and somebody should thank God every night that she is here. She and Douglas Ensminger are the outstanding Americans in north India, certainly. Evelyn Hersey is known throughout India. She was Social Welfare attache at the Embassy beginning I think in 1948. The only one attached to any embassy anywhere, I understand. Her work was to interpret the social changes taking place in India; to become aware of the needs and problems and how these needs and problems were being met; and to offer her services and her experience whenever or wherever it was asked for. When the administration changed, she was dismissed by Republicans on the grounds that this was a new idea; nobody else had ever done such a thing, that is no other foreign service and so why should the U.S.A. At Mr. Allen's urgent insistence, she was sent back, this time under the aegis of TCM. She is, however, doing the same job. Her influence is very wide; she is admired and loved by literally thousands of Indians from the high echelons down to the overseers and other horijans. She is called on for advice in many fields and by very high officials. She works behind the scenes and feels that her work would be ruined were she given credit for what she has actually done. She is vivid and full of life and one would hardly call her self effacing; and yet her work is done almost anonymously. I have been around her enough to see how wide her circle of Indian friends is; and how constantly and continuously they stream through her house. She goes all over India. Has travelled much more than 100 thousand miles. She says in recent months she has felt absolutely no antagonism toward her as an American. She is shrewd, has sharp eyes and knowledgeable politically; is nobody's fool; is strongly anti-communist; is warmhearted and intellectually flexible. One of the best minds I have run into since coming out.

4. I wish I had five times the people in TCM. They carefully avoid politics. I think it is wise.

---

14-00000

General Comments. (continued.)

5. A very good project has recently been launched. It is called The Delhi Training and Orientation Centre for Foreign Technicians in India. This is the second time it has been held, I think. It begins today, Jan. 24. Continues for two weeks. (The first one worked out a fine short bibliography on India; and a little brochure on "Foods available in North India.") This second course covers the Indian village, with visits out to villages; Indian art, architecture, dance; Indian history; religion; Islam in India; other religions and philosophies; Indian family life and customs; Health problems and rural educational problems, urban problems; rural unemployment and the role of foreign aid in India; discussion of the Five Year Plan.

6. It is the kind of briefing that every foreigner coming to India should have. It is open to all of them. We were invited simply as guests and shall attend many of the meetings. Films are shown; trips to art galleries and museums etc. Miss Hersey has had much to do with this also Dr. Douglas Ensminger. And probably others, too. Indians will do most of the briefing.

7. I shall write later about the Five Year Plan. Am still studying it. Shall have a number of interviews with the planners, or with a few of them. Shall also go out on several of the projects. This seems important to me for social changes, and how they are made, breed politics. The political picture can certainly not be understood if the cultural and social pictures are not studied and analysed carefully.

8. We are enclosing a few excerpts of speeches made by Mr. Nehru, Mr. Menon, and Mr. Dhebar this past week at the Congress Party big thing.

---

14-00000.

Odds and Ends of Information:

9. Hy Ploh told me that the Communists are organising the domestic workers of New Delhi. Last week there was a meeting of ayahs at India Gate called together for this purpose. The week before the bearers (or the sweepers) were called together. The Communists are going about it in a shrewd way: making very reasonable demands, such as a half day off each week, a rise of perhaps 4 or 8 rupees a month in wages. A Communist in every home will really be something.

10. He says there is little activity of Congress party or Socialist party among labor groups. The work is being done by Communists. They, somehow, have the money to do this organisational work while there is little money among regular workers due to weakness of industry, small member and low wages of the workers. He is troubled over lack of activity among the democratic groups in labor circles. Says he has been here only 3 months and cannot yet see the picture clearly.

11. The State Dept.'s coldness about permitting families to visit the iraca in China give the U. S. a very bad press out here. It was very clever strategy on the part of China; it was bad strategy on our part to appear callous to the feelings of the families. Family affection runs deep out here. It is another one of our many small blunders which somehow loom so large when viewed by the hundreds of millions out here. If, somehow, everybody could count up to ten before speaking, and think not how China is going to take it but how the entire area of asia will react. Those families could have been told quietly and personally that if they wanted to go they would not be protected by an american passport; they could even have been secretly urged not to go; but the blatant press release. Forgive my editorialising, I am sure I am not supposed to do it; but one is so very close here to the mind and heart of Asia and cannot help being aware of these reactions of the people. Anyone who loves the U. S. cannot help but wish that our spokesmen would speak more softly and more tactfully. A braggart or bully is disliked by all human beings. To have strength is fine; to brandish that strength offends.

12. The Times of India (Jan. 26) has excellent editorial on the socialistic society goal as outlined by Nehru and Congress Party leaders. "Does Avadi mark a revolutionary shift in our policy? All that it meant was an acknowledgment of the increasingly important role of the public sector in the national economy - a role that was already defined with greater precision in the Industrial policy resolution. There was nothing to indicate that there would be any new encroachment on the sphere reserved to private enterprise, and the fears expressed outside the Congress on that score were, therefore, unjustified. Neither was there any justification for the apprehension that the new objective meant a radical departure from the Sarvodaya ideal. What mattered really was not the label that was given the new goal but the extent to which in actual practice it would help in the production of greater wealth and in its more equitable distribution. What was significant was that it should

---

14-00000
Odds and ends of information (cont.)

have been compelled at this stage to seek a more popular label for its economic and social policies. If this commitment is to be more than a design to steal the opponents' electoral thunder, the Congress Governments at the Centre and in the states have immediately to set about the task of translating the new principles into policies. The only way to make the policy of Congress Governments accord with Congress principles is self criticism and yet there were responsible Congressmen at Avadi who saw danger even in the condemnation of malpractices by Congressmen. The road to full employment for which the Congress has for the first time laid down a time-limit is by no means easy. It demands a complete renovation of life in the countryside on the one hand and speedy industrialisation making the country as self-sufficient as possible on the other. (etc.)

13. Digest of Mr. Deshmukh's speech on Jan. 24th.

He spoke of the unsuitability of totalitarianism in the democratic Republic of India and the inadequacy of capitalism, stating that there was left only a Socialistic approach open to the country.

He states that the acceptance of the socialistic society as ideal meant the nationalisation of institutions that could be immediately nationalised with advantage. The presumption in so doing, said Mr. Deshmukh, was that socialised production would be more profitable. He, however, cautioned that if experience belied that view, the step might have to be retraced.

He stated that a Socialistic ideal which received the support of the people could achieve the two objectives of increasing national income and enhancing individual dividend.

He stated that India had established economic stability though at a rather low level of prosperity during the first plan period. He said the credit for the achievements went not merely to economic management and planning but included other factors; among them assistance from friendly nations. The United States, he said, had contributed the largest share of foreign aid.

Removed from Project (PA) FLIPPER
CS Classification: NONE
JOB 066-668/59
Box:
Fold: 3

14. Miss Bindi and Mr. Haden (private secretary of Mrs. Gandhi and reception clerks at Prime Minister's house) over a cup of tea in their quarters told the following story:

While in China, at first big banquets given them, Mr. Nehru and his daughter (and others) were served tiny baby live fish dipped in honey. Mrs. Gandhi (his daughter) was so shocked that she shuddered at the sight and turned away. None of them could eat the delicacy. It was not ever served again to them while they were in China.
