14-00000
104-10171-10229
[2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

Chief of Station, Mexico

PRIORITY
17-3-11

Chief, WH

Matters for discussion with Anthony R. MOCHAY
on Move of AMClGAR to Mexico

FROM:
JK PYET

For PONCHAY

The following is in response to your request for a summary of points that need
to be clarified in discussions between you and Station Mexico on the forthcoming
move of AMCIGAR to Mexico City.

1. Political

A. The requirement that the "overt" office will consist of only three
officials, the others being "covert", and the statement that "the presence
of large AMCIGAR in Mexico should not become known and never admitted".
(OL. MEXI-5944, 24 July. Comments: It would appear impossible to comply
with this requirement if there is to be an overt office and any ORK?
publicity in Mexico or elsewhere, since the identities and whereabouts of
all AMCIGAR members will be a matter of public knowledge.)

B. The statement in para 3, KII-54 that the Mexican Government
will not be friendly unless AMClGAR activities and "plotting to overthrow
Cuban Government" remain covert. (Comment: Since there is to be an overt
office and propaganda department and AKRAP has been, and will have to
continue to be, described as a group organized for the purpose of removing
the CASTRO government, their necessary propaganda activities toward this
end cannot be covert. Could it be modified to apply only to agreement that
no military invasion would be launched from Mexico?)

C. Clarification of the words "disavow" "established" in the following statement by LIERZY: "...may have to disavow the effort, should
it be established in contact with CDX7 in Mexico." (Comment: Since
the term "contact" is ambiguous, what will constitute "established" that is in contact with Soviets and Cubans.)

(AMMASPY? Certainly we can expect the charge will be made many times by Soviets and Cubans.)

2. Possibility of holding a meeting to brief deniers on
Cuban subversive activities in Mexico (para 5, KXI-5553) before arrival AMClGAR,
which would undoubtedly be of assistance in obtaining popular and official
sympathy for AMClGAR activities.

3. From

We plan to have AMClGAR grow and department in Mexico, but it will be
impossible for them to operate effectively, or indeed at all, if
continues to insist on Activities in Mexico "remaining covert" and not
becoming public or press issue. To feel a tremendous publicity arrive and
be made throughout Latin America at the time of arrival of QJWIN in Mexico.
Station assets will be needed to a large extent in improving the
public and political climate to allow AMClGAR people to work effectively.
Also, it is hoped Station will be able to guide AMClGAR, who will
arrive in Mexico soon to produce poor, we will ostensibly be
independent but actually will be pro-CASTRO. AMClGAR will also make satirical,
humorous radio tapes for broadcasting over Radio Swan.

14-00000

3. PM
204-8985

Requirements set forth DIR-40133, dated 15 July. If permission could
be obtained for use this territory, even if only for 72 hours prior and
during the main strike operation, the project would be advanced materially.

A. To concur requirement that TWICKER contact with Station and with
AMCIGAR be clandestine. Need Station's assistance in working out mechanics
of these contacts.

B. Station's advice and assistance needed on following: (1) provision
of unilateral telephone tape/mike installation on operational data for AMCIGAR
consumption; (2) protection (unilateral consequences) of AMCIGAR members
against any agent executive action; (3) unilateral agent surveillance
to check on security and loyalty of overt/covert AMCIGAR members; (4) selection
of secure safe sites for housing of members, for overt office, and
for covert meeting sites.

C. Mexican Government capabilities in terms of protection of overt
AMCIGAR members against enemy agent executive action operations.

D. Can Station communication facilities (pouch and cable) be used for
secure AMClGAR communications between members in Mexico and those in PIPRIDE
and elsewhere?

OLIVER G. CALDER
Distributions
3 - Mexico
August 1960
1 - Mexico Desk
1 - WH/A/Chrono
D/WH/RR:th
