104-10101-10175 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

PRIORITY BOOK CABLE

CARA MANA WAVE LODS
MEXI LIMA PACY GUAT
BUEN MONT DOGO QUIT
LAYA RIOD SAOP SAGO
LAPA SANS SDOM

REPS: A. DIR #5577
B. DIP #83638

1. THERE ARE INDICATIONS THAT EXCELLENT EXPLOITATION OF THE ANTI-CASTRO SENTIMENT IS HAVING BENEFICIAL EFFECT IN THAT HIGH INTEREST CREATED AMONG PEOPLE IS ENCOURAGING AND/OR CAUSING SOME GOVERNMENTS ADOPT STRONGER VENEZUELA POSITION IN OAS. VIEW THIS, SUGGEST ADDED ACTIVITIES CONCENTRATE PRIMARILY (BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY) THIS ASPECT, I.E. EFFORTS DEMONSTRATE TO LOCAL GOVERNMENTS THAT PUBLIC OPINION IS IN FAVOR VENEZUELAN POSITION OF TAKING FIRM STAND AGAINST CASTRO. EMPHASIZE THAT CURRENT ISSUE BEFORE OAS RAISED BY SISTER REPUBLIC, VICTIMS OF SOVIET AND CHICOM SUPPORTED AGGRESSOR; IMPLICATION BEING THAT ODYOKE PLAYING NO MORE THAN SUPPORTING ROLE.

2. CONTINUE USE "NO COEXISTENCE WITH CASTRO" THEME. CONSIDER HAVING LABOR, STUDENT, OTHER ORGS SEND TELEGRAMS TO LOCAL GOVTS AND OAS IN SUPPORT VENEZ POSITION: FOLLOW UP BY PUBLICIZING TELEGRAMS IN PRESS. VIA MEDIA SPECULATE WHAT STEPS LOCAL GOVT MIGHT FAVOR IN SUPPORT VENEZ, INCLUDING:

A. BREAK IN DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS WITH CUBA.
B. CURTAILMENT ECONOMIC RELATIONS.
C. ALL POSSIBLE COMMUNICATIONS BREAK.
D. COOPERATIVE SURVEILLANCE.

3. WHERE THERE RELUCTANCE ATTACK CASTRO'S EXPORTING POLITICAL REVOLUTION, SUGGEST USE PRG THAT REVOLUTION OVERTAKEN BY NEWER EXPORT COMMODITY, NAMELY CRIME. THIS EXEMPLIFIED BY ACTS OF ARSON, DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY, KIDNAPPING, ETC. AND THAT CUBA TRAINING OF SO-CALLED REVOLUTIONARIES IN HEMISPHERE NOTHING MORE THAN SCHOOL FOR CRIME.

4. FOR MONT GUAT BOGO SDOM. ADVISE WHAT ACTION TAKEN PER REFS SD OF MESSAGE

C/VH/1
C/EU/2
C/UH/3
C/E/6
C/VH/7

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
