14-00000
104-10170-10091
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

5 MAY

Distribution:
SECRET

STOP

By copy to:
Washington
Orally to:
Neas
11c3
Santiago de Cuba
LA
1-eval, I, Mr Attesta

References:
1569 Gratera:
Cearce, Operational Data, and Comments:
Cabfoots Plans and Activities of the Directorio Revolucionario
Cources Juery Sinchos 05

1. Part of the information in the attached report was forwarded by:
HAVA 031.
Geurco, the small, had provicusly not through a ritual condotees,
cent word through trotier student contest of Be that lat-to
to talk to Bazzi. Cinca scarce is vented by the Cuban cissities,
to vas cot clandestinely. The informatica u tto attached report wa
olicited frea hin during nsolingɔ on 9 and 10 March 1957.

Clesalfi
SECRET
17-4-5-31
APERTURE CARDI BEPRODUCTIONS
VID
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

14-00000
SECRET
FIELD INFORMATION REFORZ
REPORT NO.
COUNTRY:
SUBJECT:
Cuba
Plans and Activities of the
Directorio Revolucionario
DATE OF INFO:
PLACE ACQUIRED
Habana
DATE ACQUIRED:
DATE OF REPORT:
KH-132
October 1955-
9 March 1957
9-10 March 1957
11 March 1957
Carco
SOURCE. SOURCE EVALUATION, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT:
or of Director'o Rovolucionario (F)
Crates of Contents
DEVERIA D² - Ju my Sánches, 2 lectors of the
reste-de
elesario Latuiestis" (aroliticiary Student Directory) fcd at t] Averait;
13:00 195 in cat, 11erida, vits tro delegates of TIČUE CUSTED
with Corico Securis to plan to upricing gainst the
sea.
cr tho throǝ groups agreed a plan which called for CAST
Oricato and the other to pres to ro into cotica a tie ties
CASTRO O
Clubseccab cctivitico. Fecotino
?
and Juch licnucly, who 1 1:11cd in the Clona 1aestra fic Ung,
0 crates: Carlos URISTIY," Soror lilnister of Lever, accompanied
of costofnatica cres. Col
atento co co in leta Ostok
1953,
c
HULKY, and other of Directo Polarow
into tilding becco Loro cessed by Fic-in-Fuismo
teen the cuthor of HCO Licɔ a Cop them they have bear vo
zely to cocales, dis, el propose their picap to co sito cotica, hasz
(Selectaly (0)
Chan (2017) (3o seal
Cary persem
in the bea crea crating the catɔ
threat the delend. Com-ide-colo Games) is coated
res a coca charts, cello frea
tato ed to jela to peɔ lab Lava noɔ boca incorporated into the (803
proper 3. Sta Dicatorio ha to been in contact us at
A
cod bones ties may of thy teveps vill desert or go over to the Liscatorio's clo
is the fighting begins.
The Firesterio coca not lice or understand why the Fill crap, wilch is batered to
ta vallemal; the net pana into cotica to you. The Lirectorio in this F) has
cinstructicas to his crap loaders to remain quiet, but the reasona behind
these instructions have not been determined.
51-53 PREVIOUS EDITIONS MAY BE USED
SECRET
RI COPY
9-9-8-31

037
14-00000
