14-00000

[104-10177-10219] [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: MATLACK, DOROTHY K. (MRS) LOOSE DOCUMENTS
INCLUSIVE DATES:
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:
ROOM:
DELETIONS, IF ANY: Army Document (third agency)

| DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL |
|---|---|---|---|
| 1:20 3. AUG.78 | 1058 24 AUG 78 | BETH LICHTENFELS | Beth Lightenfels |
| 24086-78 | SAME | SURELL BRADY | Surell Brady |
|  |  | JAMES P. Kelly |  |
|  |  | CP |  |

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

Chile.

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

RECORD MATERIAL

THIS DOCUMENT IS CHARGED TO YOU.

RETURN THIS DOCUMENT TO IP/ARCHIVES, RM GA-50, ON OR BEFORE DATE INDICATED.

IF YOU FORWARD THIS DOCUMENT TO ANOTHER INDIVIDUAL PLEASE CALL EXTENSION 4598

DO NOT REMOVE THIS FORM

FORM 1790 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

RETURN TO: IP/ARD/PSU

To Requester: Please return this reference to IP/ARD/PSU immediately after use.

JOB NO. 78-1939

RECORDS CENTER SPACE (N). 325583

Chile FILE NO. WC-Fu-384

DOCUMENT FOLDER BOX 54 3

E2 IMPDET CL BY: 062147

CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL USE ONLY

RI/ARCHIVES UNCLASSIFIED 6 folder "54

nash. CIA-PRO-384

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

-B1- CHILE

Apr. 4, 1952

BRIEFS

WORKERS' HOUSING--An executive message to the Chamber of Deputies asks for the authorization of 120 million pesos for the construction of cheap housing for workers employed by the city of Santiago. The bill will be considered soon by the proper committee. (CE1180 Santiago, Apr. 4, 1952, 0030 GMT--R)

TRANSPORTATION APPROPRIATION--The Finance Ministry has dispatched the decree putting 94 million pesos at the disposal of the national transport authority for the acquisition of trolley buses and supplies to the comptroller's office. (CE1174 Santiago, Apr. 4, 1952, 0100 GMT--R)

TEACHERS' STRIKE--At the meeting of striking teachers held Apr. 3 it was decided to adopt the following procedural points: 1--To continue the strike indefinitely; 2--to demand that salaries be fixed at a rate equal to that of the minimum paid to private employees, plus 20 percent; 3--to protest the refusal of two Deputies to give their votes to the craft of a bill to readjust the earnings of public officials, which also provides that exonerated Communist professors will be reinstated; 4--to protest an anti-strike editorial published in EL MERCURIO; 5--to meet on Apr. 4 at the University of Chile to determine the course to follow. (CE1174 Santiago, Apr. 4, 1952, 0100 GMT--R)

COPPER SITUATION--The Minister of Labor has declared that as long as the Finance Ministry does not solve the problem of exchange, the nitrate dispute cannot be solved. (CE1174 Santiago, Apr. 4, 1952, 0100 GMT--R)

FOREIGN MINISTRY--Juan (Marin) has been authorized to continue in his post as Chilean Charge d'Affairs to India, and Juan Guzman Cruchaga in his important Foreign Ministry assignment. (CE1174 Santiago, Apr. 4, 1952, 0100 GMT--R)

IMMIGRATION PLAN--The Sociedad Italiana plans to invest 100 million pesos for the purpose of cultivating and exploiting sugar beet crops in southern Chile with colonies of Italian immigrants. The society is collaborating with the Development Corporation and the Agricultural Settlement and will use 10,000 hectares in the Province of Cautin for the purpose. (CE1174 Santiago, Apr. 4, 1952, 0300 GMT--R)

--- Page 4 ---

RESTRICTED

-E3- CHILE

Mar. 18, 1952

PRESS FREEDOM COMMITTEE--The President will form a committee for the purpose of studying laws which include repressive measures against the freedom of the press, on Mar. 18 at La Moneda. Press representatives are Emilio Pacul, Juan Honorato, and Mario Vergara. (Santiago, EL TARAPACA, Mar. 17, 1952, 2322 GMT--R)

COAL SITUATION--Reports from the coal region state that the situation is normal and that the workers have decided to work with provincial authorities in trying to reach an agreement after the failure of the Santiago talks. Metallurgical workers at the Lota and Coronel mines have returned to work in accordance with union directives. (Santiago, EL TARAPACA, Mar. 17, 1952, 2325 GMT--R)

CHAMBER PRESIDENTIAL LINE-UP--Since the Chamber of Deputies will meet Mar. 18 to open the special session which will extend to May 21, it is interesting to note the position and strength of its members in regard to the roster of Presidential aspirants: Favoring Arturo Matte Larrain are 33 Liberals, 21 Conservative-Traditionalists, 5 Agrarian Laborites, 2 Liberal-Progressives, and one Independent Democrat, or a total of 63. Favoring Pedro Enrique Alfonso are 42 Radicals, 9 Conservatives and 5 Democrats: total, 56. Carlos Ibanez del Campo: 9 Agrarian Laborites, 5 Socialists, one People's Democrat, and 2 Independent Conservatives; total, 17. Salvador Allende: 6 Socialists and one National Front; total, 7. The only unknown positions and numbers are those of the National Falangists, and the Independent Deputy, Melendez Anfruns. (Santiago, EL TARAPACA, Mar. 16, 1952, 2350 GMT--R)

GATH Y CHAVEZ CLOSING--Gath y Chavez has announced a closing-out of its entire stock of merchandise, thus terminating the career of one of Santiago's best-known business houses. The company closed its doors last Christmas as a result of a strike declared by its personnel. (Santiago, AFP, Mar. 15, 1952, 0000 GMT--R)

IMMIGRATION PROGRAM--The bill drafted by the Government Immigration Committee, presided over by Under Secretary of the Interior Grez, is designed to legislate all matters connected with the immigration of foreigners. The plan proposes the creation of an immigration department or office which will be under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and which will be in charge of orienting all immigrants arriving in Chile. Also under consideration is the plan to exempt all immigrants from paying taxes for a period of 5 years. This would include customs duty on their property and machinery as well as income tax. (Santiago, EL TARAPACA, Mar. 14, 1952, 2326 GMT--R)

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000

RESTRICTED

-B4- CHILE

Mar. 18, 1952

NAVAL APPOINTMENTS--With the retirement of Vice Admirals Carlos Torres Hevic, Inzanuel Holger, and Horacio de la Fuente, the Navy will reportedly make some important promotions. Besides raising Naval Capt. Danilo Basi to the rank of Rear Admiral, and raising Enrique Lagreze and Francisco Queren to naval captains, Victor Oelkers has been made rear admiral, and Alberto (Cass) Wigand, Juan Mercado Minoz, and Alfred Lopes have been made naval captains. (Santiago, EL TARAPACA, Mar. 15, 1952, 2310 GMT--R)

FISHING STRIKE--Valparaiso fishermen have joined the Talcahuano fishermen who declared a strike to protest against the Purse Seine fishing enterprises. (Santiago, EL TARAPACA, Mar. 15, 1952, 2320 GMT--R)

U.S. PASTOR--Protestant U.S. Pastor Erickson, whose activities have been attacked in many sectors where he has held public religious meetings, will soon go to Santiago where he will hold meetings in the Caupolican Theater. (Santiago, EL TARAPACA, Mar. 15, 1952, 2335 GMT--R)

MINING TAX--The Government has imposed a one and one-half percent tax on sales made by "small" mining companies. All companies capitalized at less than 5 million pesos fall under this category. (Santiago, EL TARAPACA, Mar. 15, 1952, 2340 GMT--R)

HOUSING CONSTRUCTION--From the total of 200 million pesos allotted for public housing by the Ministry of Public Works, 20 million will go to Iquique and Santiago respectively, 25 million each to Arica and Antofagasta, 30 million to Coquimbo, 40 million to Valparaiso, and 10 million each to Concepcion, Cautin, Magallanes, and Llanquihue Provinces. (Santiago, EL TARAPACA, Mar. 13, 1952, 2334 GMT--R)

HYDROELECTRIC PLANT--Guillermo Moore, manager of the Empresa Nacional de Electricidad has announced that a new central hydroelectric plant will shortly be constructed on Rio Rapel and three more will be constructed in the southern zone. (Santiago /Official/, Diplomatic, Mar. 14, 1952, 1553 GMT--R)

CHILEAN-SWEDISH TRADE--The Minister of Foreign Affairs received the Swedish Minister who proposed negotiations for the drafting of a commercial and cultural treaty. This treaty is designed to increase the exchange of Swedish-manufactured products and machinery for Chilean Agriculture products and minerals. (Santiago /Official/, Diplomatic, Mar. 14, 1952, 1555 GMT--R)

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000

Form No. 13-3

INCOMING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

"SECURITY INFORMATION"

FROM: FRANKFURT ROUTINE 27 DEC 51

TO: 00/CPC/0SO IN 49477

ACTIONS 00/CB

INFORMATION: AD/SO (1), OPS (2), PLANS (3), STC (4), FDM (5-6), OPC (7-8-9-10), S/C (11-12-13), DDP (14)

Paraphrase Not Required. Handle as SECRET Correspondence per Pars. 51 (1) 60A AR-380-5

FRAN 3173

TO: WASHINGTON (ASHCRAFT) CITE: FRAN (CRUDEN)

INFO: KARLF

TRANG

PIPELINE

REUR 446 (OUT 95394)

REF FASSED MOFFETT WHO HAS BEEN EXPLORING WITH CANADIANS. THEY DON'T SEEM INTERESTED. ONLY LIKELY BUYER BELIEVED TO BE ANOTHER S.A. COUNTRY SUCH AS ARGENTINA WITH WHOM WE HAVE NO CONTACTS. WE CERTAINLY NOT ABLE TO DO ANYTHING HERE, WHICH CAN'T BE MORE EFFECTIVELY DONE WESTERN HEMISPHERE WITHOUT EXPENSE MOVING FAMILY BACK TO GERMANY AND THEN ON OUT AGAIN.

TOO: 0722Z 27 DEC 51 SECRET COPY NO.

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000

Form No. 33-6

OUTGOING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

SECURITY INFORMATION

TO: FRANKFURT ROUTINE 20 DEC 51 OUT 95304

FROM: 00/OPC/0SO

CONFIRMATION: 00/CB

INFORMATION: AD/SO (1), OPS (2), PLANS (3), STC (4), FDM (5-6), OPC (7-8-9-10), WHO (11), S/C (12-13-14), DDP (15)

Paraphrase Not Required. Handle as SECRET Correspondence per Pars. 51 (1) 60A AR-339-5

TO: FRANKFURT (CRUDEN) CITE: WASHINGTON (ASHCRAFT)

INFO: FRANFG

PIPELINE

JANNEY OF ZACABIN SAYS HE GAVE ROBINOW BACKGROUND ON AERONAUTICAL ENGINEER AMONG CHILEAN DISPOSAL GROUP AND ROBINOW PROMISED EXPLORE POSSIBILITY GETTING HIM INTO CANADA THROUGH GERMAN CONTACTS. ZACABIN ANXIOUS TO FINISH CHILEAN DISPOSAL OPERATION 15 JANUARY. THIS ONE MAN REFUSES WORK AT ANYTHING EXCEPT AERONAUTICAL ENGINEERING, FOR WHICH JOB NOT AVAILABLE CHILE. ADVISE SOONEST WHAT ROBINOW HAS DONE. OR WHAT HE CAN DO. ZACABIN THINKING OF MOVING DEFECTOR BACK TO GERMANY, WHERE HE MIGHT LAND IN YOUR LAP.

RELEASING OFFICER ORIGINATING AND COORDINATING OFFICERS AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

TOO: 0252Z 21 DEC 51 SECRET COPY No.

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

--- Page 8 ---

14-00000

Form No. 35-6

(Doc. 1947)

OUTGOING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

TO: SANTIAGO ROUTINE 30 AUG 51 OUT 71924

FROM: WHD (1-2)

CONFIRMATION: IR (3-4), AD/SO (5), OPS (6), PLANS (7), STC (8), FDS (9), FDM (10), S/C (11-12-13)

Paraphrase Not Required. Handle as SECRET Correspondence per Pars. 51 (1) 60A AR-380-5

TO: SAGOF CITE: WASHF

RE: SAGO 305 (IN 21787), WASH 04807 (OUT 71940)

WASH 05075

HEADQUARTERS WAS UNABLE TO STOP DEPARTURE OF SUBJECT, A POLE, WHO LEFT BY PLANE FOR CHILE ON 21 AUGUST, AS OUR INTERAGENCY DEFECTOR COMMITTEE WAS NOT CONSULTED. FULLNESS SHOULD BE ADVISED THAT WE NOT INVOLVED IN THIS CASE. SUBJECT IS NOT A DEFECTOR THIN IDCOP NO. 1 REGULATIONS. THEREFORE YOU SHOULD ASSUME NO RESPONSIBILITY FOR HIM UNLESS HE BECOMES INVOLVED WITH OTHER DEFECTORS IN WHICH CASE IT WOULD PROBABLY BE TO OUR INTEREST AND INTEREST OF PROGRAM. DA IS TO BE ADVISED THAT RESPONSIBILITY IS HIS.

RELEASING OFFICER ORIGINATING AND COORDINATING OFFICERS AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

TOO: 2329Z 30 AUG 51 SECRET

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000

28 August 1951

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chairman, CIA Defector Committee

FROM: OSO Representative, CIA Defector Committee

SUBJECT: Army Disposal Action on Defector to Chile.

1. On 17 August 1951, CIA received a priority cable (IN 21787) from Santiago advising that the Chilean Consul in Frankfurt, Germany, had requested authority from his Foreign Office to issue an "ordinary visa" to Borowies, a Russian defector (actually a Polish defector), stating that American Intelligence had requested the visa on the same basis as in the case of earlier defectors. Santiago indicated that Chilean officials did not look on this with favor.

2. On 17 August the undersigned was able to ascertain that Borowies had defected to the 66th Detachment, CIC, in Germany in May 1951 and since that time had been held in ECIG.

3. On 17 August CIA queried German Station (OTP 71605) as to why Borowies had not been placed in the DRC and requested that Borowies be sent to Chile.

4. On 17 August, 1951, the undersigned telephoned Mrs. Dorothy Matlack, G-2, and requested her to have a cable sent to Germany by G-2 forbidding the disposal of Borowies to Chile. The undersigned provided Mrs. Matlack with the serial number of the pertinent CIC memo. Mrs. Kate Lask stated that she would do everything possible to have this cable sent even if it required her to come in the next day, which was Saturday.

5. On 20 August CIA advised Santiago (OUT 71940) that it had no knowledge regarding this disposal action and was opposed to any more disposal actions to Chile at this time.

6. On 22 August, CIA received a reply from Germany (IN 22176) stating that this Borowies matter was entirely within the province of CIC and under the circumstances it was impossible for CIA in Germany to have had the body sent to the DRC. It was also stated that ID EUCOM was arranging for departure on 21 August 1951. The undersigned immediately advised Mrs. Matlack of this ED and she stated that she was doing all she could to have a priority cable sent at once.

On 22 August, just about 1500 hours, Mrs. Matlack telephoned the undersigned and stated that G-2 did not have a copy of the referred CIC memo. She requested the undersigned to come over to the Pentagon immediately in order to exhibit the CIA copy of the CIA memorandum, otherwise G-2 would not send out the desired cable to CIC, Germany. This the undersigned did and such a cable was eventually sent out priority by G-2 to Germany (IN W 23393).

SECRET

--- Page 10 ---

14-00000

SECRET

8. On 27 August 1951, CIA received word from Germany (IN 23898) that on 21 August Borowies had left by plane for Chile, and would apparently require no assistance there since he had his own funds.

SECRET

--- Page 11 ---

14-0000

Form No. 35-8

INCOMING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

FROM: KARLSRUHE ROUTINE 25 AUGUST 51 IN 23991

TO: DEPARTMENT OF ARMY

ACTION: SPECIAL OPERATIONS

INFORMATION: IR (4-5), AD/SO (6), OPS (7), PLANS (8), S/C (9-10-11), DD (12) STC (13)

FDM (1-2-3)

Paraphrase Not Required. Handle as SECRET Correspondence

TO: WASHF CITE: KARLF

RE: KARL 3082 (IN 22716)

INFO: HEIDF FUNTF

1. 10 EUCOM ADVISES REQUEST TO RICCIO FOR BOROWICZ DISPOSAL CHILE MADE BY ECIC.

2. 2000Z LEFT 21 AUGUST FOR CHILE BY PLANE. HAS OWN FUNDS APPARENTLY REQUIRING NO US HELP IN SETTLEMENT CHILE.

3. ID EUCOM RECEIVED CA WASH CABLE AMOUNTING TO REPRIMAND FOR HANDLING BOROWICZ EMIGRATION WITHOUT COORDINATION, ALSO POINTING OUT ZACABIN NOT CONSULTED.

TOO: 0751Z 25 AUG 51 SECRET

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

--- Page 12 ---

14-00000

Form No.

OUTGOING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

TO: SANTIAGO ROUTINE 23 AUG 51 OUT 72599

FROM: WASHF

CONFIRMATION: MD (1-2)

INFORMATION: IR (3-4), AD/SO (5), PLANS (6), FDS (7), OPS (8), DDP (9) S/C (10-11-12), OPC (13-14-15-16-17-18-19-20-21)

Paraphrase Not Required. Handle as SECRET Correspondence per Pars. 51 (1) 60A AR-300-5

TO: SAGOF CITE: WASHF

RE: SAGO 503 (IN 20501) PARA 2A Borowiez

DEPORTATION OF SUBJECT NO INTEREST OR RESPONSIBILITY OF HEADQUARTER YOUR STATION AND WE NOT WILLING ISSUE OBLIGATION OR EXPENSE THIS CONNECTION. SUCH DECISION STRICTLY UP TO FULLNESS.

RELEASING OFFICER ORIGINATING AND COORDINATING OFFICERS AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

TOO: 2127Z 23 AUG 51 SECRET

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

--- Page 13 ---

14-00000

FORM.

OCT 1995-8

INCOMING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

FROM: HEIDELBERG PRIORITY 22 AUG 51 IN 23393

TO: DEPARTMENT OF ARMY

ACTION: DEPARTMENT OF ARMY AUG 51

INFORMATION: AD/SO (1), IR (2), OPS (3), STC (4), FD: (5), FDS (6), ID (7), RC (8), S/O (9)

NR: DA 93529

Paraphrase Not Required. Handle as TOP SECRET Correspondence per Pars. 51 (1) 604 AR-

TO: CINCEUR HEIDELBERG GERMANY

FOR DI FROM G2.

SUBJECT IS BOGUSLAW BOROWIEZ, INFO HERE THAT CHILEAN CONSUL RICCIO, FRANKFORT POSTED CHILEAN FON OFFICE ISSUE ORDINARY VISA TO SUBJECT AS OF 31 JULY, STATED AMER INTEL POSTED VISA ON SAME BASIS AS PREVIOUS DEFECTORS, CAS ALLEGES THAT THEY NOT NOTIFIED OF BOROWIEZ DEFECTION ALTHOUGH HE IN CUSTODY 66 CIC DET SINCE 26 MAY 51. POST INFO REF ROLE OF 66 CIC DET IN SUBJECTS DEFECTION AND FURTHER DATA AS TO WHY IDC OPN PROCEDURE NR 1 WAS NOT FOLLOWED. POST SUBJECT BE NOT RESETTLED WITHOUT CONCURRENCE OF IDC GERMANY ALSO POST THAT SUBJECT NOT BE RESETTLED IN CHILE IN VIEW OF DIFFICULTIES NOT HAVING WITH PLEV DEFECTORS SETTLED THERE.

CORIGIN: G2

IISTR C2(CIA).

DA 99529

TOO: 2338Z 25 AUG 51 SECRET

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

--- Page 14 ---

Form No. 33-5

April 194

INCOMING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

FROM: KARLSRUHE ROUTINE 21 AUGUST 51 IN 22716

TO: SPECIAL OPERATIONS

ACTION:

INFORMATION: (1-5), AD/SO (6), OPS (7), PLANS (8), S/C (9-10-11), EUP (12), STC (13).

FDM (1-2-3)

Paraphrase Not Required. Handle as SECRET Correspondence per Pars. 51 (1) 604 AR-380-S

TO: WASHF CITE: KARLF

RE: WASH 04508 (OUT 71605)

1. LATE PLY CIC ADVISED THEY THROUGH WITH DEBRIEFING BOROWICZ WHO WILL BE TREATED AS DISPOSAL CASE FRI 10 AUG ON AND ASKED ETHER WE INTERESTED IN HIS NOB ADVISED NOT INTERESTED; BOB ADVISED INTER-ESTED AND ASKED OB INTERVIEW HIM, WHICH NOB CID 9 AUG (REPORT IN RGVA 6602 EN ROUTE MUNI TO KARL AND WASH, INDICATES HE OF NO FURTHER INTEREST SINCE CIC FULLY DEBRIEFED AND ID EUCH WAS ARRANGING HIS E-GRATION WITH ETD 21 AUG).

2. BOB INTEREST SIMPLY DUE TO ORIGINAL CIC INDICATIONS SINCE POB PRIMARY BASE FOR DISPATCH SINGLETONS TO POLAND WHILE POB TRIES SPEC-TALIZE IN GROUP OPS.

3. PLS REALIZE WE HAD NOTHING TO DO WITH 2 EXCEPT SINGLE INTER-VIEW WHICH PRODUCED NO OPS INTEREST IN HIM. RE ORC: IN CIRCUMSTANCES, THIS WAS NOT OUR CASE TO ROUTE TO DRC OR ELSEWHERE; ALSO, IT IS NOT SOP FOR PERSONS OF B'S LEVEL AND NATIONALITY TO CO. DRC.

4. RF CHILEAN VISA REQUEST: WE" INVESTIGATING AND WILL REPORT FACTS SOON.

TOO: 1325Z 21 AUG 51 SECRET

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

--- Page 15 ---

14-00000

Form No. 33-6

(Dec 1947)

OUTGOING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

TO: SANTIAGO ROUTINE 23 AUG 51 OUT 71942

FROM: WASHF

CONFIRMATION: WHD (1-2).

INFORMATION: IR (3-4), AD/SO (5), OPS (6), PLANS (7), STC (8), S/C (9-10-11), FDS (12)

Paraphrase Not Required. Handle as SECRET Correspondence per Pars. 51 (1) 604 AR-350-S

TO: SAGOF CITE: WASHF

RE: SAGO 375 (IN 21787)

THIS AGENCY HAD NO KNOWLEDGE OF PLANS FOR ADDITIONAL DEFECTOR PRIOR RECEIPT SAGO 305. MATTER BEING CHECKED AND YOU WILL BE INFORMED OF CIRCUMSTANCES, BUT HEADQUARTERS WILL OPPOSE SENDING MORE DISPOSAL CASES TO CHILE AT THIS TIME.

RELEASING OFFICER ORIGINATING AND COORDINATING OFFICERS AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

TOO: 1738Z 23 AUG 51 SECRET

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

--- Page 16 ---

14-00000

Form No. 33-6

(Dec 1947)

OUTGOING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

TO: KARLSRUHE ROUTINE 17 AUG 51 OUT 71605

FROM: WASHF

CONFIRMATION: FOM (1-2)

INFORMATION: IR (3-4) ADSO (5) OPS (6) PLANS (7) S/C (9-10-11) DOP (12), STC (13)

Paraphrase Not Required. Handle as SECRET Correspondence per Pars. 51 (1) 60A

TO: KARLF CITE: WASHF

RE: KARL 2945 (IN 18811)

1. SANTIAGO ADVISES CHILEAN FONOF RECEIVED DISPATCH DATED 31 JULY FROM ITS FRAN CONSUL, RICCIO REQUESTING AUTHORITY ISSUE "ORDINARY VISA" TO SUBJECT STATED AMERICAN INTELL REQUESTED VISA ON SAME BASIS PREVIOUS DEFECTORS.

2. IN VIEW COMPLICATIONS CHILEAN DEFECTOR SITUATION NO DISPOSAL OP TO CENTRAL OR SOUTH AMERICA TO BE INITIATED WITHOUT PRIOR HEADQUARTERS APPROVAL. PLS ADVISE WHO INITIATED REQUEST PARA 1 AND HOLD UP ACTION THIS CASE PENDING INSTRUCTIONS FROM HQ.

3. ADVISE (A) WHY SUBJECT WAS NOT TURNED OVER TO DRC FOR DEBRIEFING PER CURRENT OPERATING PROCEDURES? (B) SUBJECT'S PRESENT STATUS, LOCATION. (C) CLARIFICATION BOB INTEREST SUBJECT, SUBSEQUENT MOB ACTION.

4. RE RGSA-GUYS. NO IDENTIFIABLE TRACES ROTNICK OR TEPLITZ-SEMBLITSKY. ASSURE CIC FOLLOWING UP CE ASPECTS AND ACTIVITIES WEST GERMANY.

RELEASING OFFICER ORIGINATING AND COORDINATING OFFICERS AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

TOO: 2102Z 18 AUG 51 SECRET

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

--- Page 17 ---

14-00000

Form No. 23-6

April 1949

INCOMING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

FROM: SANTIAGO PRIORITY 16 AUG 51 IN 21787

TO: SPECIAL OPERATIONS

ACTION: WHD (1-2)

INFORMATION: AD/SO (3), OPS (4), PLANS (5), STC (6), FDS (7) S/C (8-9-10), DDP (11)

Paraphrase Not Required. Handle as SECRET Correspondence per Pars. 51 (1) 604 AR-386-5

TO: WASHF CITE: SAGOF

D-270064

CIC HP

66 Ditel

Cox Cup. Davis

1. FULLNESS ADVISED CHILEAN FOREIGN OFFICE RECEIVED DISPATCH FROM ITS FRANKFURT CONSUL, RICCIO, DATED 31 JULY 1951, REQUESTING AUTHORITY ISSUE "ORDINARY VISA" TO BOGUSLAV (BOROM.07) BOROSLAV, RUSSIAN DEFECTOR. STATED AMERICAN INTELLIGENCE REQUESTED VISA ON SAME BASIS AS PREVIOUS DEFECTORS.

2. FULLNESS OPINED ENOUGH DIFFICULTY EXISTED OVER PRESENT DEFECTORS WITHOUT ADDING THERETO. HE HAS BEEN ASKED TO HOLD MATTER ABEYANCE HOS COMMENTS.

3. SAGO RECOMMENDS NO NEW DEFECTORS CHILE UNTIL PRESENT PROBLEMS RESOLVED AND FULLNESS ASSURED THAT UNDESIRABLES BE RECALLED, BELIEVE DEFECTORS 47 AND 36 MOST SERIOUS THOUGH INVESTIGATION UNCOMPLETED TO DATE. DEFECTORS 36 AND 42 NOW BELIEVED RECONCILABLE. RECOMMEND FRANKFURT AUTHORITIES HANDLE SOCK WRITERS THROUGH HOS AND THIS STATION.

TOO: 1519Z 16 AUG 51 SECRET

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

--- Page 18 ---

14-00000

TCS-630 dtd 24 Aug 49

Ref: TCS-15-644

Industrial expansion of last few years in Chile reveals shortages skilled welders, automotive mechanics, farm machinery technicians and mechanics, factory mechanics, experienced lathe operators, die and mould workers, ceramics technicians--skilled labor and technicians in almost every industry in the country.

--- Page 19 ---

14-00000

ABSTRACT OF DOCUMENT BEING CROSS FILED

OSC Registry

15-6-4

SUBJECT Disposal Questionnaire

PERTINENT INFORMATION

CCS FILE BY Lois Smith

DATE 29 November 1955

Pencilled in file No. 31-7-4-1

CROSS REFERENCE FORM

FILE THIS FORM FICE DO.

CIA Pro 384

folder 54

--- Page 20 ---

14-00000

Dept. of Army document

12 August 1955

Memo For: Dir, CIA, FM: Collection Div, F-2

Subject: Interagency Defections in the

Class: Secret

reference G2-CDOA

THIRD AGENCY
