‘104-10418-10104
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOP AND BOTTOM

UNCLASSIFIED
CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

TO:
NAME AND ADDRESS | DATE | INITIALS
1. Room 2D-39 01/09
2. Attn: Mr. Russ Holmes
3.
4.
5.
6.

ACTION
APPROVAL
COMMENT
CONCURRENCE
DIRECT REPLY
DISPATCH
FILE
INFORMATION
PREPARE REPLY
RECOMMENDATION
RETURN
SIGNATURE

Remarks: Willem Oltmans

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO. | DATE
E/BROWN (Carol Saunders) 9004.
UNCLASSIFIED
CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET

FORM NO. 237 Use previous editions

13-00000
7-71 MF. 7/76
CABLE SEC DISSEM BY PER TOTAL COPIES 13
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED RUN BY
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
ACTION UNIT

T 348531 EL A195 PAGE 01 IN 468674
20-6
TOR: 170925Z NOV 77 (HAGU) 33140

SECRET 170900Z NOV 77 DEFERRED TELEPOUCH
CITE (THE HAGUE) 33140
TO: WASHINGTON,
FOR: EUR/BNL/N INFO: CI/OG, SA/DO/O, LA/C/EU
SUBJECT: WNINTEL RNMUM RYBAT REAM (SYMPATHIZER). MHCOLOR
REFS: A. (THE HAGUE) 33877 (459495)
B. WASHINGTON 125435

1. WE DID NOT DISCUSS INFO CONTAINED REF A WITH
CONSULATE FOR TWO REASONS: INFO RECEIVED FROM (SYMPATHIZERS)
WELL AFTER SUBJECT'S INTENDED DEPARTURE DATE, AND IF
SUBJECT NEEDED VISIT CONSULATE FOR VISA HE ALREADY WOULD
HAVE DONE SO. SECOND, DUE TO SENSITIVITY OF SOURCE
OF INFO, WE PREFERRED NOT PROVIDE IT AFTER THE FACT TO
ROTTERDAM CONSULATE, WHICH LACKS CLASSIFIED COMMO AND
STORAGE FACILITIES.

2. WILL BE INTERESTED IN ANY CONGRESSIONAL REACTIONS
TO, OR DOMESTIC COVERAGE OF, OLTMANS VISIT. NOTHING
NOTED HERE IN LOCAL PRESS.

3. FILE: 201-0155221. E2 IMPDET.

SECRET
