14-00000

104-10215-10153 [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

PROPOSED TO: Deputy Chief, WH/SA

INFO. FROM: Chief of Station, JMWAVE

SUBJECT: TYPIC/Operational/AMLILAC - Transmittal of Memorandum of Oral Commitment

ACTION REQUIRED: FYI

REFERENCE: None.

ACTION ACCOMPLISHED AND NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED

HEADQUARTERS DESK CAN NOT INDEX

ABSTRACT MICROFILM

Transmitted herewith for Headquarters information and files are three copies of a Memorandum of Oral Commitment for Subject, 201-332676.

H-56

Attachment:
3 cys, MOC H/W
3 cys, IDENS U/S/C

Distribution:
Orig & 2 - Addressee w/att A

ANDREW K. REUTEMAN

DATE TYPED: 25 Aug 64
DATE DISPATCHED: SEP 2 1964

CROSS REFERENCE TO 201-332676

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET COPY

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: UFGA-17558

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER: 201-332676

---

14-00000

TO: Chief, Special Affairs Staff

FROM: Chief of Station, JMWAVE

SUBJECT: Engagement of Identity A - 201-332676

1. Term and Project Charge. The Subject individual has been engaged under oral contract for use under TYPIC and is to be charged against Fil cost center. The effective date of the oral contract is 1 August 1964 and it shall continue until termination by either party upon fifteen days actual notice.

2. Security Approval. The appropriate security approval, utilizing SIENNA as required, has been obtained. POA reinstated 26 June 1964 per UFGA 3997.

3. Citizenship. The Subject is a foreign national and was born on 6 May 1939 at Pinar del Rio, Cuba and resides at Identity B.

4. Compensation. Commencing on the effective date of this agreement, Subject will be paid compensation at the rate of $ 163.01 per month. Such payments to be made following completion of satisfactory service.

5. Taxes. Subject will be obligated to pay U.S. income Taxes will be deducted from the above stated paid compensation. Subject is eligible for Social Security. # Identity C Subject is single and has a total of 2 dependents other than himself. Subject's dependents are residing in the U.S., U.S. possessions, Canada, Mexico, the Canal Zone, or the Republic of Panama.

6. Quarters and/or Subsistence. The Subject will not be furnished quarters and/or subsistence.

7. Operational Expenses. When properly authorized, Subject will be reimbursed for:

a. Operational travel including mileage claims for official use of his personal automobile.

b. Operational hotel expenses, meals, telephone calls, etc.

8. Other Commitments.

a. In case of capture, 50% salary until released or for two years, whichever is less.

b. In case of death, four months salary to dependents.

c. In case of wounds, medical care.

d. With prior approval of COS, a bonus may be authorized for outstanding performance in the line of duty. The amount of the bonus will be commensurate with the risks taken and results which were achieved but will not exceed $200 per single bonus payment.

9. Contingent Obligations. No commitments, other than those stated above have been made to the Subject.

SIGNED: Field Contracting Officer

REVIEWED: Contract Approving Officer

GROUP 1 Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

att #1 to UFGA 17558 201-332

---

14-00000

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT TO: UFGA-17558, 25 August 1964

IDENTITY A: Juan F. BLANCO Hernandez

IDENTITY B: 6831 SW 6 Street, Miami, Florida

IDENTITY C: SS #265-74-1626

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

CS COPY

att #2 to UFGA 17558 201-332676
