14-00000

104-10178-10334 (2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992)

FID FILES REVIEWED 15 October 1969. Contained following info:

PICO Ramor, Reinaldo name contained in list of cubans traveling to Latin America in document dated 12 Sept. 1967. PICO had requested visa to travel to Honduras from Guatemala. 15 day Honduran business visa authorized 30 August 1967.

OTHER TRAVEL NOTED IN FILE:

Travel FR/To Message sent Message Date
FR/to
U.S./Brazil Miami/Rio 14 August 1955
REMARKS: Visa Requested
Chile/Venezuela Caracas/San Juan 9 February 1965
REMARKS: 15 day tourist visa authorized provided he has reentry visa or visa to continue to another country.
Vene.Chile Santiago/Caracas 21 Jan. 1965
REMARKS: 15 day temporary resident visa authorized. He is a delegate to Executive Council of Latin American Confederation of Christian Trade Unions to be held in Santiago first two weeks in February.
U.S./Venezuela Miami/Caracas 14 Oct. 1964
REMARKS: 10 day tourist visa authorized at request of Confederacion Latino Americana de Sindicalistas Christianas provided they have re-entry or continuation visas.
U.S./Dom. Rep. Santo Dom/Miami 1 Aug 1964
Dominican Visa Authorized.
U.S./Venezuela Miami /Caracas 14 Jul 1964
REMARKS: 15 Day tourist visa authorized provided he has re-entry in U.S. at request of Latin American Christian Trade Union Confederate.

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

Travel Fr. To. Message Sent Message Date:
FR/To
U.S./Venezuela Caracas/Miami 10 March 1964
REMARKS: 1 Week tourist visa provided he has reentry to U.S.
U.S./Venezuela Caracas/Miami 2 March 1967
REMARKS 30 day tourist visa is authorized at the request of La Confederacion de Trabajodores de Venezuela.

Helen H. Stilson
15 Oct. 1969

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

SECRET

162245Z OCT 69 CITE CARACAS 3820

PRIORITY DIRECTOR
DTDORIC JMDEVEL

REF: DIRECTOR 46526

1. FIELD TRACES FIVE NO NEW INFORMATION SAVE FOR LOCAL ADDRESS AND TOUTED MEDIA CONNECTION PER WH/MIAMI 46393 OTHER GENERAL, NONDEROGATORY TIDBITS.

2. REGRET DELAY DETERMINING AMICE-31 CURRENT STATUS REGARDING CLASC. PROBLEM HAS BEEN IN LOCATING HIM FIRST THROUGH AMCLEVE-15, BOTH BEING MUTUAL FRIENDS, TO DETERMINE IF HE HAS ACCESS AND STATUS CLASC AFFAIRS MERITING STATION DIRECT FOLLOW-UP. SUBJECT REPORTEDLY INVOLVED IN CHURCH FUND RAISING WORK AND SPENDS CONSIDERABLE TIME AWAY FROM HOME. WILL ADVISE SOONEST BUT GIVEN DIFFICULTIES AMCLEVE-15 HAS HAD MERELY IN REACHING SUBJECT SINCE RECEIPT HVCW-8792, HAVE DOUBTS ON PROSPECTS FOR MISSION.

3. FILE: 201-284658, X-REF: 200-124-192/3.

SECRET

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000

CITE DIRECTOR
CARACAS

PRIORITY
DTDORIC JMDEVEL

REF A: HVCW-8792
REF B: DIR 46526

1. IN VIEW IMMINENCE QUITO MEETING. CITED REF A, AND PROVIDED CARACAS DECISION IS AFFIRMATIVE ON FEASIBILITY OF HANDLING AMICE-31 REQUEST PRIORITY FIELD TRACES TO UPDATE A-31'S OA AS REQUESTED REF B.

2. FILE: 200-124-192/3.

SECRET

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

DATE 30 September 1969

TO Officer designation, room number, and building
OFFICERS INITIALS DATE RECEIVED FORWARDED
1. FI/D 7 B 44 Tube ES-1
2. CI/OA
3. CA/B4 3 D 0119 Tube EW-4 H. Stilson

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment)

Prev green list was for retention in your "operational."
Picos 201-284658 file fill out green list was

operational.

2-3: 10 retention in your vils fill

SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL USE ONLY UNCLASSIFIED

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000

From Fromit:
message tun/
Mag Sch
Renants

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000

REQUEST FOR GREEN LIST NAME CHECK
DATE 30 Sep. 1969
TO CHIEF, FI/D

1. NAME PICO Ramon, Reinaldo
2. ALIASES, VARIANT SPELLINGS, ETC.
3. DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH 21 July 1933, Regla, Havana
4. CITIZENSHIP Cuban
5. PRESENT ACTIVITY AND LOCATION Correspondent - Carcas Daily "EXCELSIOR"
ORIGINATING OFFICER Helen H. Stilson
OFFICE DESIGNATOR CA/B4
ROOM, BUILDING 3 D 0119
EXTENSION R1254
13. TYPE OF REQUEST (CHECK ONE)
FIRST TIME SUBMITTED
ADDITIONAL DATA
CHECK FOR CURRENT
6. OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTIES, EDUCATION Journalist
7. INTEREST IN SUBJECT (CHECK ONE)
ESPIONAGE CP CE ACTIVITY
OPERATIONAL CLEARANCE
OTHER
PAST ACTIVITIES INCLUDING MILITARY SERVICE
ACTIVITY LOCATION
Former Chief CTC Youth Bureau
Officer in National Transport Federation Cuba
8. OTHER SIGNIFICANT DATA (POLITICS, RELIGION) ADD EXTRA SHEETS WHEN NEEDED
Member 26 July Movement later fought clandestinely against Castro in Cuba
9. DESCRIPTION
HEIGHT 5'7"
WEIGHT 155
EYES Brown
HAIR Black
RACE Latin
OTHER
10. SPOUSE (IF WIFE, GIVE MAIDEN NAME) Carmen
11. MEMBERS OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY AND ASSOCIATES Father: Regino PICO; Mother: Maria de la Paz PICO
12. GENERAL TERMS SUCH AS "DEROGATORY" MAY RESULT IN SEARCH NOT FULLY MEET REQUIREMENTS.) Please check for all available information.

INSTRUCTIONS: INSERT CARBONS. FILL OUT FORMS COMPLETELY. SEND BOTH SHEETS TO FI/D. SEE CSI 10-7

SECRET

--- Page 8 ---

14-00000

TO: H. Stilson
FROM: FI/D
DATE 7 OCT 1969

A. SEE DOSSIER ON SUBJECT IN FI/D BIOGRAPHIC FILES. A MEMORANDUM IS ATTACHED HERETO.
B. WITH THE LIMITED IDENTIFICATION PROVIDED IN THE REQUEST, FI/D IS UNABLE TO DETERMINE WHETHER THERE IS INFORMATION ABOUT THE SUBJECT OR NOT.
C. FI/D HAS NO PERTINENT INFORMATION ON SUBJECT.
D. THE SUBJECT OF THIS REQUEST IS APPARENTLY THE SUBJECT OF THE FOLLOWING:

NOTE TO THE ORIGINATING OFFICE

WHEN THE SUBJECT IS NO LONGER IMPORTANT TO YOUR OFFICE, THIS SHEET, WITH THE FOLLOWING CANCELLATION NOTICE COMPLETED, SHOULD BE SENT TO FI/D.

REVIEW YOUR FILE OF THESE SHEETS FREQUENTLY, AND SEND TO FI/D THE SHEETS FOR PERSONS THAT ARE NO LONGER OF SUFFICIENT INTEREST TO DEMAND A CONTINUING NAME CHECK. PLEASE DO NOT TIE UP FI/D'S FACILITIES WITH CONTINUING SEARCHES FOR INFORMATION THAT IS NOT REQUIRED.

TO: FI/D
FROM:
NAME
OFFICE DESIGNATOR
ROOM, BUILDING
EXTENSION
CANCEL THE STOP CARD FOR THIS REQUEST
DATE

SECRET

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

CONF:
PER
CAS

SECRET

PRIORITY CARACAS
15 20 02Z

DTDORIC JMDEVIL

REF A: HVCW-8792
REF B: DIR 46526

1. IN VIEW IMMINENCE QUITO MEETING. CITED REF A, AND PROVIDED CARACAS DECISION IS AFFIRMATIVE ON FEASIBILITY CF HANDLING AMICE-31 REQUEST PRIORITY FIELD TRACES TO UPDATE A-31'S OA AS REQUESTED REF B.

2. FILE: 200-124-192/3.

COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

--- Page 10 ---

14-00000

PICO Ramon, Reinaldo 201-284658 C-85445
DPCB: 21 July 33, Regla, Havana
PDA req 3 Jun 64 - WAVE 7146 - CA ops.
WH/SA/EOB/PA-PROP (Ott). DL-11 June 64
FLUTTERED ON PRQ Part I PRQ Part II
WL 476A-19701 476A-19701
376445 372465
P. O. A. granted
POA LETTER NOTE 26 April 1965 So 15 4
POA CANCELLED today
15.
24-15 chiered
Meriend

--- Page 11 ---

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

DETAILS AMICE-31 RECRUITMENT AND PRQ DATA BEING FORWARDED UFGA 19590, ASSESSMENT FAVORABLE AND SUBJ RESPONSIVE REF OP.

PLAN HANDLE A-31 INITIAL PERIOD PRIMARILY THROUGH AMICE-3 AND AMOT-20, AMICE OFFICIALS. IF A-31 GETS ONE OF REF TARGET POSITIONS, PROPOSE UNILATERAL HANDLING BY KUBARKER AND GRADUAL SEPARATION FROM AMICE EXCEPT NOMINAL COVER TIES.

A-31 LEFT 22 JAN PRIOR RECEIPT REF, DUE IMPORTANCE TARGET GUIDANCE (ESPECIALLY SINCE PRESS AND PROPAGANDA DEPT JOB MOST LIKELY BE OFFERED AND ACCEPT DUE PAST AMICE/CLASC DEALINGS); BONGIRNO WILL CONTACT A-31 CARA WHERE LATTER STOPPING SAT DISCUSS CIV SHIPPING BOYCOTT, BONGIRNO WILL PASS REC INSTRUCTIONS ON DETEXT PROP JOB NOT PRODUCTIVE OR INFLUENTIAL.

SECRET

--- Page 12 ---

14-00000

MESSAGE FORM

SECRET

TO JMWAVE SANTIAGO PARIS/ICPIPIT
FROM DIRECTOR

INFO: SAGO PALP CITE DIR 79561

QRSNIPE PBRUMEN
REF: DIR 79560
IDEN: ENRIQUE VILLARREA (CUBAN)

END-OF MESSAGE

WE/PO/D
WUSA/MB Jott coordinated in draft

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

--- Page 13 ---

14-00000

MESSAGE FORM

SECRET

TO JMWAVE SANTIAGO PARIS/LCPIPIT
FROM: DIRECTOR

INFO SAGO PALP
QRSNIPE PBRUMEN
REF: WAVE 7250 (IN 62274) NOT SENT PALP

1. AGREE IN PRINCIPLE OPS USE AMICE-31 PER REF. REQUEST ASSESSMENT A-31, METHOD OF HANDLING, AND DEGREE HE RESPONSIVE. POA NOW BEING REINSTATED AND REQUEST STA FORWARD PRQ 1 AND 11 SOONEST.

2. IN VIEW NATURE CLASC EXEC MTG DO NOT EXPECT A-31 TO BE IN POSITION INFLUENCE THIS EVENT. FUTURE VALUE WILL DEPEND ON CLASC POSITION OBTAINED. SUGGEST FOLLOWING CLASC TARGETS AS KEY SECTORS FOR PENETRATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT HEADED BY DI PACCE; OFFICE OF SEC GEN MASPERO; OFFICE OF PRES GOLDSACK. FYI SAGO NOW HAS PENETRATION IN CLASC HQS PRESS AND PROPAGANDA DEPT THROUGH FUBIAS-7 (IDEN) AND DO NOT WISH DUPLICATE THIS CHANNEL. DEFER TO SAGO FOR ADDITIONAL COMMENTS A-31 USE.

3. IN A-31 BRIEFINGS DO NOT INDICATE SCOPE KUBARK INTEREST AND PROGRAMS RE CLASC.

4. REQUEST A-31 DEBRIEFING SAGO MTG. BE FORWARDED WHEN OBTAINED.

END OF MESSAGE

WE/PO/B
WUSA/MB Jott coordinated in draft

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

--- Page 14 ---

14-00000

MESSAGE FORM

SECRET

TO JMWAVE SANTIAGO PARIS/LCPIPIT
FROM DIRECTOR

INFO SAGO PALP
QRSNIPE PBRUMEN
REF: DIR 79560
IDEN: ENRIQUE VILLARREA (CUBAN)

END OF MESSAGE

WE/PO/B
WUSA/MB J Ott coordinated in draft

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

--- Page 15 ---

14-00000

SECRET

PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH/SA/IOS - W. Ullery

SUBJECT PICO Ramon, Reinaldo
NUMBER 201 - 284658
REFERENCE: Your Memorandum, Dated 22 Jan 1965

A Provisional Operational Approval is granted for the use of this Subject as set forth below.

A Provisional Operational Approval issued by CI Staff grants the same authority, on a temporary basis, for the use of an individual as the authority granted in an Operational Approval unless otherwise specified by CI/OA. It is based, however, only on preliminary file checks and investigation and is subject to a further final review when all investigation is completed.

POA reinstated until 26 April 1965 to allow for submission of PRQ Part I and PRQ Part II on Subject per WH/SA/IOS request of 22 January 1965.

To process the Operational Approval, full information (completed PRQ Parts I and II) must be submitted as soon as possible and not later than six (6) months from this date. An Operational Approval will follow when all investigation is completed and upon the receipt of satisfactory PRQ Parts I and II. Cancellation must be requested if use of Subject by interested Divisions ceases.

CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION
26 January 1965

SECRET

--- Page 16 ---

14-00000

SECRET

22 January 1963

SUBJECT: Reinaldo PICO Ramon
201-284658
C-85445

Please reinstate Subject's POA for 60 days.

A PRQ Part I and II was requested from the Field on 22 January 1965 via cable.

John L. Hart
Deputy Chief, WH(SA)

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - Addressee
1 - WH/SA/IOS
1 - 201-284658

--- Page 17 ---

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

IDEN: REINALDO (PICO) RAMON.

SECRET

--- Page 18 ---

14-00000

SECRET

1. PAST SEVERAL MONTHS CLASC PROMISING HIRE AMICERS AFTER SOLUTION BUDGETARY PROBLEMS PRESUMABLY AT NEXT EXEC COMMITTEE MEETING. CLASC ALSO INDICATED CERTAIN AMICERS INCLUDING IDEN (ASSIGNED AMICE-31) WELCOME ABOARD NOW IN ANTICIPATION SALARY FUNDS WITHIN FEW MONTHS.

2. PLAN HAVE A-31 ACCEPT OFFER AND ALSO PERSONAL INVITATION ATTEND CLASC EXEC COMMITTEE MEETING SAGO. A-31 WILL BE INSTRUCTED PENETRATE CLASC FOR JOINT AMICE/KUBARK PURPOSES:

A. REPORT DETAILS CLASC STRUCTURE, BIODATA AND INTER-RELATIONSHIPS KEY PERSONNEL.

B. ASSESS EXTENT SUCCESS COMMUNIST FAR LEFTIST ATTEMPTS THRU CLASC AGAINST U.S. THEREBY UNDERMINING HEMISPHERIC ANTI-CASTRO SOLIDARITY.

C. MANEUVER INTO POSITION SPOT AND EXPOSE OR NEGATE ADVERSE INFLUENCES AND BRING CLASC MORE IN LINE MUTUAL GOALS.

3. A-31 ETD 21 JAN. INDEX.

SECRET

--- Page 19 ---

14-00000

SECRET

CANCELLATION TO DIVISION

DATE 15 January 1965
MEMORANDUM FOR: CHIEF, WH/SA/IOS
ATTENTION: Wendell Ullery

C# 201 - 284658

The file on PICO Ramon, Reinaldo is cancelled and closed in CI/OA for the following reason:

Failure to submit PRQ-II as required under CSI No. 10-5 or to indicate any further interest in obtaining approval for the operational use of Subject.

Prior to any future use of Subject, it will be necessary to furnish a new approval request (Form #772) to CI/QA.

/s/ Edward P. Brown
CHIEF, CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

SECRET

--- Page 20 ---

14-00000

PROCESSING ACTION

SUBJECT TYPIC/ANSAFE
Request for HQ Intercession to Facilitate Entry of Identity A

AR: See Paragraph below

1. Identity A, who is the mother of AMICE/31, a Station asset, has been twice denied permission to enter the United States as a refugee from Cuba. The local ODURGE office has stated that Identity A has been placed on a denied admissions list because of information supplied by ODACID.

2. According to AMICE/31, Identity A applied for admission to the United States with her daughters, Identities B and C. Identities B and C received the necessary authorization on 24 February 1966 from the Swiss Embassy and arrived in the United States by air on 28 February.

3. Identity A was the wife of Identity D, a member of the Cuban Communist Party for some twenty years, at the time of her first application to leave Cuba. Identity D died in October of 1965 and according to AMICE/31 lost his Communist Party membership card about a year prior to his death. According to AMICE/31, Identity A has never joined or been a member of the Communist Party although there is a possibility that her husband may have placed her name on the membership lists. AMICE/31 also stated that she has long been a practicing Catholic and that she is very anti-Communist. Sent as separate cover attachments are two statements from the Bishop of Cienfuegos and the Assistant Bishop of Havana testifying to her good character and to her standing as a practicing Catholic.

Attachments:
1. Identities, USC
2. Letters, USC

Distribution:
3 - WH/C w/atts USC

--- Page 21 ---

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH SECRET

4. It is requested that Headquarters contact the appropriate ODACID and ODURGE officials for the purpose of removing Identity A's name from the denied admissions list since her close connection with a member of the Cuban Communist Party, which presumably was the basis of the derogatory information, is no longer a fact.

Philip G. ELMARD

--- Page 22 ---

14-00000

SECRET

TYPIC/OPERATIONAL
AMICE/31

ACTION REQUIRED: FYI
REFERENCE: UFGA-19701

Subject was granted an OA on 4 February 1955.

Distribution:
Orig. & 2 - JMWAVE

WH/C/RR/OS
WH/C/ESEC
201-284658

SECRET

--- Page 23 ---

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT Cuban Travel

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
REF: S3NP-2238, 4 August 1965

Attached is Cuban travel information received from NIGALE during August.

Attachment: As stated above

Distribution:
1 - Chief, WH/SA (w/o att)
2 - Brussels (w/o att)

PROCESSED

--- Page 24 ---

14-00000

BULLETIN DE RENSEIGNEMENTS
POUR L'OBTENTION D'UN VISA DE PASSEPORT

FORMULARIO DE INFORMES
PARA OBTENER LA VISACION DE UN PASAPORTE

Nature et duree du visa
Aard en duur van het visum
Naturaleza y duracion de la visación.

Nom (1) PICO RAMON
Prenoms Reinaldo
Lieu et date de naissance La Havana, Cuba, 21-7-1933
Nationalité d'origine cubaine
Nationalité actuelle cubaine
Etat civil (célibataire, marié, veuf, divorcé) célibataire
Nom du pere Regino PICO
Nom de la mere de la Paz RAMON

Voyage-t-il (elle) seul(e)? oui

--- Page 25 ---

14-00000

Avez-vous deia résidé en Belgique? Quand?
Hobt U reeds in Belgio verbleven? Wanneer?
Ha residido, yo Ud en Bélgica Cuando

1545 S.W. 125 MIAMI, Fort,
Profraton commerçant
Durée de segur en Belgique 10 jours
Motif assister au Conseil C.I.S.C.

Le départ est ti determine par une cause politique, raciale
Vindt het vertrek pleats om politiche, rossenpolitische of ideologische redenen?
Es la sando originad on one politics, dragito a recu?
Sejourncret-pos en Reque comme etage poistique" Motifs?
Zub in Belgie verblazen als politick vluchteling? Redemen?
Permanecera en Fegro en calidad de refugiado politica indicar los motivas

Mode de transport utilise avion
Date d'entree en Belgique et adresse complete pendant la durée du séjour 12 octobre 1965
Fecha de entrood en Fe'gical's direction completa en ei tempo de permanencia en Belgica
78, Boulevard Poincaré, Bruxelles

Nom, prenoms, adresses completes des personnes à visiter
Apellido, nombres v direccion completa de los personas que se visitaron
Auguste VANISTENDAEL, 78, Boulevard Poincaré, Bruxelles
Monseigneur J. CARDYN

Indication de Fautorite qui a delivre le passeport, date, numero el durre et validité
Indicar la répartición que ha extendido el pasaporte, fecha, numero y termino de validez
La Havane Cuba, 16-10-1933. 29267736

Prenoms et age des enfants qui accompagnent
Nombres y edad de los hijos que lo acompañan

References (nom et adresse des personnes ritéess
Referencias (nombre y direccion de los personas que cito)
Auguste VANISTENDABL
Monseigneur Joseph CARDYN, Sr.

Fait à Santiago-du-Chili.
Extendido en el , le de 11 août 195j.
el

(Signature du requérant)
Reinaldo Picos

CONSIDERATIONS ET AVIS DE L'AGENT DIPLOMATIQUE ET CONSULAIRE
BESCHOUWINGEN EN ADVIES VAN DE DIPLOMATIEKE OF CONSULAIRE AMBTENAAR

MINISTERE DE LA JUSTICE
Direction Genérale
Administration de la Police des Strangers

Renvoyé a
Decision

Bruxelles, le
Au nom du Ministre,
Pour Administration de to Police des Etrangers

--- Page 26 ---

14-00000

SECRET

PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH/C/CA/PP - W. Ullery

SUBJECT AMICE/31
NUMBER 201-284658
REFERENCE: Your Memorandum, Dated CFH

A Provisional Operational Approval is granted for the use of this Subject as set forth below.

A Provisional Operational Approval issued by CI Staff grants the same authority, on a temporary basis, for the use of an individual as the authority granted in an Operational Approval unless otherwise specified by CI/OA. It is based, however, only on preliminary file checks and investigation and is subject to a further final review when all investigation is completed.

Subject's POA is herewith extended until 30 September 1965 to allow additional time for the completion of the OA investigation.

To process the Operational Approval, full information (completed PRQ Parts I and II) must be submitted as soon as possible and not later than six (6) months from this date. An Operational Approval will follow when all investigation is completed and upon the receipt of satisfactory PRQ Parts I and II. Cancellation must be requested if use of Subject by interested Divisions ceases.

CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION
29 June 1965

SECRET

--- Page 27 ---

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PREPARATORY SAGO TRIP AMICE-31 CABLED WENCESLAO MORENO AMICE COLLECTING FUNDS AMONG CUBAN EXILES FOR CHILEAN EARTHQUAKE VICTIMS AS DONATION PROPER AUTHORITIES THROUGH HIS FEDERATION. MORENO REPLIED WITH GRATITUDE. FUND APPEAL WILL NOTE 24-HOUR WORK STOPPAGE BY CHILEAN PORT WORKERS 24 FEB IN CONNECTION BOYCOTT MOVEMENT. HOPEFULLY AMICE WILL COLLECT SEVERAL HUNDRED DOLLARS WHICH WAVE MAY SUPPLEMENT TO ASSURE GOOD PUBLICITY ON A-31 ARRIVAL SAGO. WILL ADVISE ETA WHEN FIRM.

SECRET

--- Page 28 ---

16 February 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, CI/OA

SUBJECT: AMICE/31
201-284658

Attached herewith are two copies of Subject's FRQ Part I and one copy of a PRQ Part II. An OA is requested.

John L. Hart
Deputy Chief, WH/SA

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - Addressee w/att.
1 - WH/SA/IOS
1 - 201-284658

--- Page 29 ---

14-00000

SECRET

201 No. 234658

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH/C/CA/PP
Wendell Ullery

Operational Approval is hereby granted in the case of AMICE/31 for the purpose specified in your request dated 16 February 1965.

Ref: UFGA-19701

This Approval is based upon evaluation of information available to this Office, and is granted under authority contained in CSI and CSI-F 10-5.

/s/ Edward P. Brown
CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

Date: 4 February 1966

Distribution:
Orig. to Addressee
1 to Files

SECRET

--- Page 30 ---

14-00000

SECRET

SECRET 151543Z JUNE 68 CITE CARACAS 9830.
DIRECTOR INFO JMWAVE
JMDEVIL AMICE

REF JMWAVE 2620 (F^ (4511)
5 JUN 68 IN 25149

STATION CARACAS ESTIMATES AMICE-31 WOULD REQUIRE $500 PER MONTH PLUS HOUSING AND EDUCATION ALLOWANCES OVER AND ABOVE JMDEVIL OFFER IN ORDER ENABLE HIM LIVE EVEN MODESTLY HERE. ATTEMPTING COVER MONETARY SUPPLEMENT THIS MAGNITUDE COULD BE DIFFICULT. WHILE WE DO HAVE INTEREST IN MONITORING JMDEVIL, IT IS RELATIVELY LOW PRIORITY IN TERMS LOCAL REQUIREMENTS AND STATION WILL TAKE IT ON ONLY IF HQS BELIEVES IT CONSTITUTES OVER RIDING NATIONAL PRIORITY. PERHAPS EVEN MORE IMPORTANT THAN COSTS AND COVER CONSIDERATIONS, HOWEVER, IS BALPA.

SECRET

--- Page 31 ---

14-00000

SECRET 042028Z JUN 68 CITE JMWAVE 2626
CARACAS DIRECTOR INFO JMCOBRA
JMDEVIL AMICE

1. DURING NINTH CONGRESS IN SANTO DOMINGO EMILIO MASPERO RENEWED AN OFFER TO AMICE-31 OF A POSITION IN THE CLASC OFFICES IN CARACAS AT A SALARY OF $400 PER MONTH AND ONE WAY AIR FARE. AMICE-31 TOLD MASPERO THAT SALARY WAS NOT ENOUGH IN VIEW HIGH COST OF LIVING IN CARACAS BUT THAT HE WOULD THINK IT OVER AND GIVE ANSWER BY EARLY JUNE.

2. IT IS NOT CLEAR JUST WHAT AMICE-31 FUNCTION AND RESPONSIBILITY WOULD BE BUT THIS SEEMS TO PRESENT A FIRM AND OPPORTUNITY TO MONITOR CLOSELY CLASC PLANNING AND DAY TO DAY ACTIVITIES. REQUEST ADDEES COMMENT ON OPERATIONAL NEED AND POSSIBILITY OF STATION CARACAS OFFERING AMICE-31 SOME FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE IN MOVING FAMILY TO CARACAS AND SOME REGULAR SUPPLEMENTARY INCOME IF AND WHEN HE IN PLACE.

SECRET

--- Page 32 ---

14-00000

SECRET 2415347 MAY 68 CITE SANTO DOMINGO 5604

DIRECTOR, JMWAVE, BUENOS AIRES (NF) MONTEVIDEO, LA PAZ

DIDORIC JMDEVIL
REF: BUENOS AIRES 0663(15743)

1. STATION INITIATED CONTACT WITH AMICE-31 ON 24 MAY FOR SHORT DEBRIEFING. DUE SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS NO ADDITIONAL CONTACT TO BE MADE. AMICE-31 TO PROVIDE COMPLETE DOCUMENTATION FROM CLASC EVENTS ON ARRIVAL JMWAVE 27 MAY.

2. MOST SIGNIFICANT ASPECT MEETINGS ACCORDING AMICE-31 COORDINATED EFFORT COMMENCING JUNE, WHICH FIFTIETH ANNIVERSARY INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION (ILO), TO DEMAND RELEASE ALL LABOR AND POLITICAL PRISONERS IN LATIN AMERICA. CLASC ALREADY SENT CABLE TO BARRIENTOS IN BOLIVIA DECRYING HIS TREATMENT ORGANIZED LABOR. THESE EFFORTS TO CONTINUE DURING ENTIRE ANNIVERSARY YEAR OF ILO AND PER AMICE-31 COULD WELL BE SOURCE OF DISCOMFORT TO MAJORITY LATIN GOVERNMENTS.

3. SINGLE CENTRAL OF LABOR DISCUSSED AT MEETINGS BUT NOT YET FIRMED UP. PERMANENT COMMITTEE FOR CENTRAL TO BE ESTABLISHED, PROBABLY IN CARACAS WITH PRATAS OF URUGUAY AS

SECRET

--- Page 33 ---

14-00000

PAGE 2 SANTO DOMINGO 5604 SECRET

HEAD. MASPERO LIKELY TO BE NAMED AS SECRETARY GENERAL FOR COMMITTEE. AMICE-31 SAID THAT INCLUSION COMMUNISTS IN CENTRAL NOT BROACHED AND HE DOES NOT BELIEVE IT LIKELY IN LIGHT STRONG ATTACK MADE BY MASPERO AGAINST COMMUNISTS DURING SESSIONS, AT ANY RATE, IMPLEMENTATION THIS CONCEPT DOES NOT APPEAR IMMINENT.

4. AMICE-31 COMMENTED THAT MOST OUTSPOKEN OPPONENTS OF U.S. DURING GATHERINGS HAVE BEEN RAIMUNDO ONGARO OF ARGENTINA AND GALLO OF URUGUAY; HOWEVER, BASIC TENOR ENTIRE GROUP STRONGLY ANTI-US.

5. FOR BUENOS AIRES: POUCHING TAPE 19 MAY TV SHOW IN WHICH ONGARO VIOLENTLY ATTACKED U.S. WHILE PRAISING CUBA.

--- Page 34 ---

14-00000

SECRET

PICO RAMON, REINALDO 200-124-052
201-284658 HDCA-07090
15 MAY 68
PLO
SEX M DOB ? CIT ? OCC ?

DELEGATE TO IX CLASC COUNCIL CELEBRATED IN SANTO DOMINGO FROM 13-17 MAY 1968

R 6806030162

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE

SECRET

--- Page 35 ---

14-00000

SECRET 101604Z MAY 68 CITE JMWAVE 2352

PRIORITY SANTO DOMINGO INFO DIRECTOR 10 May 68
PBRUMEN JMDEVIL AMICE

REFERENCE: SANTO DOMINGO 5478

AMICE-31 (IDEN) ETA SANTO DOMINGO 1715 HOURS (LOCAL) DOMINICANA FLIGHT NO. 301 ON 11 MAY.

SECRET

--- Page 36 ---

14-00000

SECRET 101605Z MAY 68 CITE JMWAVE 2353.

PRIORITY SANTO DOMINGO INFO DIRECTOR 10 May 68
PBRUMEN JMDEVIL AMICE

REFERENCE: JMWAVE 2352

IDEN: REINALDO PICO.

SECRET

--- Page 37 ---

14-00000

SECRET 072104Z MAY 68 CITE SANTO DOMINGO 5478

JMWAVE INFO DIRECTOR 7 MAY 68
PBRUMEN JMDEVIL AMICE

REF: A. SANTO DOMINGO 5475
B. JMWAVE 2318

1. MEETING TO TAKE PLACE ONE HOUR BEFORE TIME MENTIONED ON TELEPHONE AT INTERSECTION GEORGE WASHINGTON AVENUE, WHICH PARALLELS SEA, AND PALO HINCADO. LARGE ELISK IN MIDDLE GEORGE WASHINGTON AT THIS INTERSECTION. CASE OFFICER TO PICK UP AMICE/31 IN FADED MAROON AMERICAN RAMBLER WITH PRIVATE PLATES. HAVE AMICE/31 CARRY COPY "EL CARIBE", LOCAL MORNING DAILY, IN LEFT HAND.

2. PLS PROVIDE IDENTITY AMICE/31.

SECRET

--- Page 38 ---

14-00000

SECRET 062217Z May 68 CITE JMWAVE 2309

TO DOMINGO INFO DIRECTOR, CARACAS
PBRUMEN JMDEVIL AMICE
REFERENCE: JMWAVE 1348

1. AMICE-31 REPORTS THAT FOLLOWING CUBAN EXILES INVITED ATTEND NINTH CLASC CONSEJO IN SANTO DOMINGO:

REINALDO PICO- SECRETARY GENERAL OF CLASC AFFILIATE ORGANIZACION REVOLUCIONARIA DE TRANSPORTE (ORT) AND ALSO REPRESENTING MIAMI-BASED SOLIDARIDAD DE TRABAJADORES CUBANOS (STS). OFFICIAL DELEGATE WITH RIGHT TO FULL PARTICIPATION AND VOTE.

NELSON (DIAZ) FERNANDEZ-SECRETARY GENERAL OF STC. OFFICIAL DELEGATE WITH RIGHT TO FULL PARTICIPATION AND VOTE.

JUAN A. WOODS-FORMER REPRESENTATIVE OF JUVENTUD OBRERA CATOLICA (JOC) NOW RESIDING NEW YORK, FULL PARTICIPATION AND VOTE.

ALBERTO CAO-FORMER JOC MEMBER NOW RESIDING SANTO DOMINGO, TO ATTEND AS FRATERNAL DELEGATE ONLY. NO VOTE.

RAMON (GARCIA) TOME--FORMER JOC MEMBER NOW RESIDING PUERTO RICO, NO VOTE.

SECRET

--- Page 39 ---

14-00000

PAGE-2 JMWAVE 2309 SECRET

LAZARO MIRANDA-FORMER JOC MEMBER NOW RESIDING NEW YORK, NO VOTE.

EDUARDO (GARCIA) MAURE-ASSISTANT SECRETARY GENERAL OF CLASC. RIGHT HAND MAN OF EMILIO MASPERO.

CARLOS MORIS-MEMBER OF CLASC