```markdown
14-00000

{104-10174-10068} | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: LOPEZ, HENRY P. / 201-253203 / VOL. II
INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:
ROOM:
DELETIONS, IF ANY: LOPEZ
DATE DATE
RECEIVED RETURNED REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000
DISPATCH
Chief, WHD
INFO:
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
PROCESSING ACTION:
* DESENSITIZE
* MARKED FOR INDEXING
* NO INDEXING REQUIRED
* ONLY QUALIFIED DESK CAN JUDGE INDEXING
FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City
SUBJECT: General - Operational / Specific - Henry Lopez
ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES:
REFERENCE: MEXI-2755, dated 11 March 1965
MICROFILM
Forwarded herewith is the coverage of Henry Lopes' telephone
for the period: 17 February 1962 to 26 March 1962.

Attachment:
1. As Stated (HEREWITH).
Distribution:
* WHD w/att h/w
* Files
Stewart R. Pataker
for
Willard C. CURTIS

The following action is
cut
Control
R/DAT
John Blake Smith
R.O. 655WH/L
ito
roses and coordinate:
12 appropriate.
AN
AB
IN
PS
BY
CROSS REFERENCE TO
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: HMMA-25595
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
DATE: 17 March 1965

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000
HMMA-25595
Is Anal 9/11/71
17 March 1965
201-353203

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000
CONFIDENTIAL
Chief of Station, Mexico City
Chief, Benefits and Services Division/OP
SUBJECT: Hospitalization Claim - Edward G. TICHBORN
REFERENCES:
A. HMMT 5791, dated 9/22/65
B. HMMT 6030, dated 12/9/65

1. Please inform subject employee that a check in the amount
of $642.93 was forwarded to D/FEARN on 4 November 1965. This amount
represents all benefits payable under subject's Contract Hospitalization
insurance policy for the claim submitted with reference (a).

2. If subject has any further questions regarding transmittal of
his settlement, he should contact VIZAR.

James K. Hewitt
JAMES K. HEWITT
Distributions:
3 - COS-Mexico City

Esclett 7:3
Wax - 4495
27 December 1965

Michaelaki
OF/BSD/13
AC/IS
VIL/Pers.

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000
MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES: 12
ORIG: HENRY F. CONNOR
UNIT: WH/B&F
EXT: 7763
DATE: 15 DEC 65
TO: MEXICO CITY
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: WHS
INFO: VR FILE
RID COPY
TO: MEXI
INFO:
REFS: A. DIR 47834
B. MEXI T/A 64-66
SIG GEN
CITE DIR 65500
SINCE TICHBORN PAID BY STATION, LOAN SHOULD BE CARRIED BY
STATION AND $125 PAYROLL DEDUCTION APPLIED.
ACCORDINGLY, HDQRS T/A'ING LOAN TO STATION AND RETURNING
DOCUMENTATION.

WILLIAM V. BROE
END OF MESSAGE

Sally Tuckton
COORDINATING OFFICER
SECRET
Robert D. Carter
CAMI/B&F
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
COPY NO. 201-253203
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000
DISPATCH
Chief, WH Division
INFO:
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
Chief of Station, Mexico City
SUBJECT: ADMINISTRATIVE/PERSONNEL
Overt and Covert 1964 Income Tax Forms of Edward G. TICHBORN
ACTION REQUIRED: Per Paragraph 1
REFERENCES: MEXI 5550
PROCESSING ACTION:
* DESENSITIZE
* MARKED FOR INDEXING
* NO INDEXING REQUIRED
* ONLY QUALIFIED DESK CAN JUDGE INDEXING
MICROFILM
Chandler
1. Please query Jerome H. BALSIS in regard to the location of the
1964 overt and covert tax return and payment check in the amount of
$1774.00 of Edward G. TICHBORN and advise.

2. TICHBORN states that he missed the only the copies of each return and
the check to BALSIS on 28 April 1965, further stating that BALSIS told him he
would completely audit both returns to assure their accuracy in regard to
mathematical computations and application of tax liability. BALSIS was to
return a copy of the overt return for TICHBORN's retention.

3. A thorough search of Station files failed to uncover the subject
tax returns and check or any transmittal record of returns or payment.

4. Since TICHBORN will be extremely hard pressed to duplicate the returns
without a copy of the overt return, the location of the return is very important.

Distribution:
3 - MD

WILLARD C. CURTIS
DATE: 31 December 1965
HMMS-6033
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
201-253203

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000
RD TO FILE
ICT TO AN
DESTRY
Mexico City
action
Tex
FLAR 052
SECRET 081945Z
DIR CITE MEXI 5558
REF: DIR 62414
CLASSIFIED RE
Total EDP185
SECRET
COUNT - Emp
RID COPY
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED
1. 1964 COVERT TAX RETURNS FOR BENADUM, LIMOTOR 19 (BARBARA
C. HUFIG), PINE INCH, SANDAMANIE BEING SENT BY HMMT 6219, IN 19
DEC POUCH. NOT POUCHED EARLIER AS OVERLOOKED IN STATION ADMIN
FILES.

2. RETURN FOR CAZAZZUS SENT HMMT 5399 APR 23 (JOINT WITH
DOUGLAS J. FEINGLASS). RETURN FOR LIFUED 30, NOW RITA N
BLAZIK, SENT HMMT 5908, 28 OCT 65.

3. LIHUFF 1 SUBMITTED RETURN THROUGH OVERT CHANNELS;
SIGNED COPY BEING POUCHED HQS.

4. WILL REPORT ON TICHBORN SEPARATELY.
SECRET/ADVE

CFN 5550 62414 1964 BENADUM LIMOTOR 19 BARBARA CHUFIG PINEINCH
SANDAMANIE HMMT 6018 10 NOT POUCHED CAZAZZUS HMMT 5399 APR 23
DOUGLAS J FEINGLASS LIFUED 30 RITA N BLAZIK HMMT 59 28 5
LIHUFF 1 HQS
BT
SECRET
Techforn
26/253203

--- Page 8 ---

14-00000
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
X REF TO FILE NO.
FILE RID RET. TO BRANCH
DESTROY SIG.
FROM MEXICO CITY
ACTION WHE
INFO
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
UNIT NOTIFIED
TOTAL CO"if"
ADVANCE COPY
✓ RID COPY
FILE VR, CA2, CA/FE6, 13/1000, 07/085 07/102, EL, FI/ENTZ, WH 8
SECRET 080108Z
DIR INFO LAPA ZITE MEXI 5541.
KICAPER LICOLIC
REF DIR 59669
8 DEC 05 09900
1. SINCE TICHBORN MAY WELL BE NEEDED IN LAPA NEXT SPRING,
STATION AND THOMAS W. LUND (IDEN) HAVE FURTHER DISCUSSED COVER
POSSIBILITIES WITH HIM. WHILE NO CONCRETE PROPOSAL FORTH COMING,
HAVE CONCLUDED THAT PART OF PROBLEM STEMS FROM HIS NEVER HAVING
BEEN IN BOLIVIA, AND STATION LAPA NOT HAVING READING OF HIM AND
HIS CAPABILITIES.

2. SUGGEST BRIEF VISIT TICHBORN TO LAPA UNDER TOURIST COVER TO
CONSULT WITH LAPA OFFICERS AND SURVEY COVER POSSIBILITIES.
THIS MONTH BEST TIME FROM MEXI STANDPOINT; NEXT ISSUE LIREAM
PUBLICATION HAS JUST GONE TO PRINTERS AND HE RELATIVELY
FREE TRAVEL. TICHBORN FULLY COOPERATIVE, ANXIOUS TO SERVE IF
NEEDED.
SECRET.
59659 TICHBORN LAPA THOMAS W. LUND NO CONCRETE NOT HAVING LAPA
MONTH BEST TIME LIREAM
SECRET
Tichbor
201 fill
Dy-253203

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000
ORIG
J. Fisher
UNIT: WH/1
EXT: 4506
DATE: 29 Nov. 65
TO: Mexico City
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: WH8
INFO: VR FILE
RID COPY
MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES: 13
INDEX
NO INDEX
FILE IN CS FILE NO.
ROUTING
3
4
5
6
7
8
2 DEC 65 22
066
SIG GEN
CITE DIR 62414
REQUESTED
PLS ADVISE WHEN HDQS CAN EXPECT 1964 COVERT TAX RETURNS
REQUESTED HMMS-4366. IF NOT RECEIVED SOON, KUBARK MAY BE
FORCED REVEAL TRUE NAMES TO IRS WHO WILL THEN TAKE DIRECT
ACTION.
END OF MESSAGE
*Requested 8 delinquent 1964 Covert Income Tax returns.

William V. Broe
CAND.
OFFIC
WIL/B&F
COORDINATING OFFICER
SECRET
Techborn
Kaufman
C/WH/1
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
201-253203
REPRODUCTION OF OTHEO THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

--- Page 10 ---

14-00000
WH-8
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
✓ RID COPY
TON PROHITED
DIA INFO LAPA CITE MEXI 5309 (EASBY ACTING)
KICAPER LIREAM
15K 6595063
1. AFTER EXTENSIVE CONSULTATION WITH TICHBORN, STATION UNABLE
DEVELOP ACCEPTABLE PROPOSAL FOR HIS COVES IN LA PAZ. HAVE EXAMINED
AND DISCARDED THESE MAIN POSSIBILITIES:
AT LAWYER WITH MINING CLIENTS.
UITER WITH FOUNDATION GRANT
PRODUCER OF POSSIBLE MOVIE.

2. IN REGARD TO (IATICHBORN BELIEVES HE CERTAIN TO RUN INTO:
HENRY HILL, WHO LEGITIMATELY INTERESTED IN POLIVIAN ANTIMONY
MINING HAS CONSULTED IN PAST WITH TICHORN. AND WOULD RECOGNIZE
FISHY NATURE HIS PRESENCE LA PAZ. TICHBORN
BELIEVES HILL WOULD REACT BADLY, SPREAD WORD THEIR MUTUAL CIRCLE.

3. PROPOSAL 1B SMELLS TOO SIPONGLY OF OPERATION CAMELOT, AND WOULD
OPEN TICHBOR TO ATTACK EVEN FROM THOSE TO WHOM THIS COVER MIGHT
APPEAR PLAUSIBLE

4. PROPOSAL 1C WOULD IMMEDIATELY DRAY ATTENTION FROM ALFARO
MUT IS, CLOSE ACQUAINTANCE OF TICHBURN, AND LATIN AMERICAN REP. OF

Dekhorn
201- 253203

--- Page 11 ---

14-00000
VENTNETH CENTURY FON.
IN 1965

MUTIS JOB IS TO TRAVEL AREA, KEEP CLOSE TRACK. OF ANY AND ALL DEVELOP-
MENTS IN CINEMA FIELD. TO HIM THIS COVER WOULD APPEAR
LUDICROUS, AS IT WOULD TO TICHBORN-MUTIS CIRCLE OF
ACQUAINTANCES. IN MEXICO.

5. ALL ABOVE IDEAS ARE, OF COURSE, COVER FOR STATUS ONLY.
COVER FOR ACTION WITH PROMINENT POLITICAL PERSONALITY MUCH MORE
DIFFICULT PROBLEM. AND STATION AGREES THAT CLANDESTINITY PROBABLY
ONLY RECOURSE. WHILE MEXI NOT CLOSELY FAMILIAR OPS. CLIMATE LA PAZ,
SPECULATE THAT TICHSOPN WOULD QUICKLY BECOME OBJECT CURIOSITY
IN SMALL CAPITAL. HE DEFINITELY HOT LITTLE GRAY MAN TYPE. AND
MEXI CONSIDERS THAT JOB OF CONCEALING SIGNIFICANT BEHIND SCENES
ROLE IN FAST MOVING POLITICAL SITUATION COULD UNDULY TAX HIS
TRADECRAFT.

STICHBORN HAS SUBMITTED MEMO MAKING ABOVE POINTS PLUS SOME
SPECULATION REGARDING USE OF FALSE IDENTITY, WHICH STATION
CONSIDERS UNREALISTIC, WILL POUCH ADDÉES.
CRET
CFN 5309TICHBORN LA PAZ CLIENTS (IA) TIGHBORN HENRY HILL BOLIVIAN
ANTINONY MINING LA PAZ CAMELOTIC ALFAPO MUTIS FOX TICHE ORN-MITIS

--- Page 12 ---

14-00000
NOT CLOSELY LA PAZ TIONEORN, SMALL CAPITAL NOT LITTLE GRAY MAN TYPE-
UNDULY TAX MEMO

--- Page 13 ---

14-00000
5 November 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, CI/OA
ATTENTION: Mr. Lally
REFERENCE: WH/1 Memorandum 10 June 1965
SUBJECT: Edward G. TICHBORN (201-253203)

1. This is to confirm telephone conversation this
date between Mr. Lally of your office and Mr. Halliwell
of WH/1.

2. WH/1 again requests that a new Operational
Approval be expedited on Subject. TICHBORN'S project
is awaiting this action in order to undergo renewal for
FY 1966.

3. Please advise this Office if any further action
is required by the Branch.

W. J. Kaufman
Chief, WH/1

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - Addressee.
1 - Dosier

DDP/WH/1/Zorance:bp

--- Page 14 ---

14-00000
SECRET

Chief of Station, Mexico City.
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
SUBJECT: Edward G. TICHBORN, Administrative
Action Req: Para 2
References:
A.: HMMT 5791, 22 Sept.65
B. MEXI 5149
C. HMMT 5271

1. Due to operational requirements a meeting was not
held with Edward G. TICHBORN by an Admin representative, how-
ever, the items noted below were briefly discussed with him
by telephone on 26 October.

2. TICHBORN was advised information would be forwarded
to the Station and, upon his return to the Station, he should
ask his contact about the items--both as a reminder and for
fuller explanation. As will be noted, there is a time element
concerned with c. below.

A. Reference A (Transmittal of hospitalization claim).
TICHBORN asked about the claim and was advised the dis-
patch was received 5 October and the separate cover was
received by the Insurance Branch on 25 October. The in-
surance section has agreed to expedite the claim and it
is expected Finance will advise the Station of the amount
of reimbursement to TICHBORN within the next two-three
weeks.

B. Reference B (Concerned signing the contract amend-
ment forwarded by Book Dispatch 5178). The provisions of
the BC regarding signing the amendment still pertain. The
subject was very briefly but, by no means thoroughly, ex-
plained. In this connection, it had been planned to have
him read the two attached pamphlets "Your Social Security"
and "Social Security Amendments--1965". If cover or oper-
ational considerations do not preclude, the pamphlets may
be given to TICHSCEN to either read and return to the
Station or to retain.

CONTINUED
HMMS - 4339
28 October 1965
SECRET
Distribution:
1 - Pers wo/ate
MI/Pers/M.S. Renehani
1 - WH/L wo/att
1 - Wh/Reg wo/ate C/MOPARS
C/GNAL
6376

--- Page 15 ---

14-00000
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: HMMS 4322
CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

C. Reference C (Transmitted Income Tax information
in response to Book Dispatch 4659). The Tax Committee
was checked regarding TICHBORN and advised they needed
additional explanatory information from TICHBORN prior
to being able to compute an assessment and bring him
under the revised tax procedures. TICHBORN could not
recall sufficient facts and figures to provide the re-
quired information. He was therefore advised it was to
his benefit to submit the information to the Station as
soon after his return as practicable.

(1) Other Income. He had indicated receipt of
fees but did not state whether they were the result
of work outside the U.S. or if they were received while
in, and as a result of work in the U.S. If the fees
were earned as a result of work outside the U.S.,
they are excludable for federal tax purposes.

(2) Itemized Deductions. He had indicated under
"other" $1400 but did not provide any breakdown or
explanation as to what the account represented. It
is necessary to provide sufficient supporting inform-
ation to enable the Committee to recognize the amount
as an allowable item. He also indicated a loss of
$2,000 on investments. Explanatory facts are required
such as-names, when, reason for the loss (sale of
stock at $XX versus cost of $XX or whatever), whether
the loss was a carryover from prior year(s), etc. It
is better that too much information be provided rather
than too little.

TICHBORN is to provide the information in writing with
his certification as to completeness and accuracy for trans-.
mittal to Headquarters. If the information is received
within the first part of November it is likely the re-
vised procedures will be applied for the 1965 tax year.

Ernest A. LUSBY
Attachmenta:
As Stated
Distribution:
2 - CUS, Mexico City

--- Page 16 ---

14-00000
MEMORANDUM FOR: WH/BAS
SUBJECT: Transfer of funds via CCS/HC to LIREAM
Activity, Mexico City
REFERENCE: DIR 31750 3 Aug 65

It is requested that $3,500.00 from Project LILISP-X
be transferred through CCS/HC to the LIREAM activity in
Mexico City. The details on the actual transfer from
a New York bank to the Instituto Cultural Inter-
Americano, Banco Nacional do Mexico, Sucursal Lomas,
Mexico D.F., Mexico of $4,500.00 allegedly being
made by Chan Canfield, and a Cashier's check from a
New York bank for $4,000.00 allegedly donated by Robert
Dowling to be pouched to the Station from Headquarters,
have been discussed with CCS/HC.

H.J. Kaufman
Chief, WH/1
Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - Addressee
1 - CCS/FC
1 - 50-126-36/3
1 - 201-253203 (TICHB: IN)
1 -W/1

DDP/WH/1/Halliwell:bp
20 Oct 65

--- Page 17 ---

14-00000
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
X-REF TO FILE NO.
FILE RID RET. TO BRANCH
DESTROY SIG.
FROM MEXICO CITY
ACTION
INFO
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
UNIT NOTIFIED
TOTAL COPIES
ADVANCE COPY
✓ RID COPY
FILE VR, CA2, CALO 4, CA/PROP, Cilon, De 4, Do/113
SECRET 141750Z
DIR CITE MEXI 5027.
LICOLIC 1. IREAM
REF A DIR 49336
B MEXI 5025 (IN 72965)
14 OCT 65 72946
16 TICHBORN ETA NEW YORK 17 OCT, WILL AWAIT CONTACT. HILTON HOTEL.

2. IN ADDITION TICHBORN COVER AND FUTURE OF MAGAZINE, SUGGEST HQS
AND TICHBORN WORK OUT MORE ADVANCED METHOD OF FUNDING LIREAM.
PRESENT ARRANGEM NO LONGER APPEAR ADEQUATE.
SECRET
*F* 36 »«S 85 TICHBORN STA 17 OCT HILTON HOTEL HQS AND
1BORN WORK OUT MORE NO LONGER
SECRET
*NGS CONOURED ṬICHBORN NEW YORK TRIP.
201
Techon 201
Nickbom
253 203

--- Page 18 ---

14-00000
Actor Récupái
ity
Cecil B. ARLISS, Rita N. BLAZEK,
Barbara C. HUFIG, LIFEUD/19, LIHUFF/1,
Joyce H. PINEINCH, John R. SANDAMANIE,
Philip K. TESSAROLO, Edward G. TICHBORN,
Carol K. ZINSMEISTER

--- Page 19 ---

14-00000

--- Page 20 ---

14-00000
SECRET
Edward C. Tichborn
Dear Mr. Tichborn:
Reference is made to your current contract with the United States
Government, as represented by the Contracting Officer.

Arrangements have been recently completed allowing certain
independent contractors of this organization to obtain social security
credits by covering such individuals under the social security tax
provisions applicable to employees. These arrangements also include
a provision for retroactive applicability to the beginning of the
1965 tax year. This can be done only for reasons of security since
the procedure results in reducing the social security tax from the
self-employed rate to the employee rate. For example, in January
of 1965 the tax rates were 5.4% and 3-5/8% respectively.

As a consequence thereof, said contract is amended by deleting
all reference to social security and by adding the following paragraph:

"Effective 1 December 1964, social security taxes will be covertly
deducted by this organization from your compensation in the same
manner and to the same extent as would be done if you were a Govern-
ment employee. Security reasons make this procedure necessary. Its
implementation does not imply in any manner the actual creation of an
employee-employer relationship. Your legal status under this agree-
ment continues to be that of an independent contractor."

If you receive or expect to receive full or partial social security
credits from overt sources you will so notify this organization and sa
adjustment will be made or covert deductions discontinued, depending
upon the circumstances. Further, if you should subsequently receive
overt social security credits, evidence thereof will be submitted to this
organisation. In such event your covert credits will be erased and your
covert deductions returned.

All other terms and conditions of said contract remain in full force
and effect.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
SIGNED
BY
Contracting Officer
SECRET
Groop 1
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification.

--- Page 21 ---

14-00000
ORIG: C.R.Halliwell
UNIT: WH/1
EXT: 4506
DATE: 1 Oct 65
TO: MEXICO CITY
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: WH8
INFO: VR FILE
RID COPY
MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES: 12
INDEX
NO INDEX
FILE IN CS FILE NO.
ROUTING
3
4
5
6
7
8
5 Ocr 65
17.021
CITE DIR 47834
REF: MEXI 4855' (IN 60704)*
1. REFERENCE LOAN APPROVED. TA LOAN TO HQS.
2. OBTAIN AND SEND TO HQS FOLLOWING DOCUMENTS
SIGNED BY TICHBORN.
A. PROMISSORY NOTE IN THE AMOUNT OF LOAN.
B. RECEIPT ACKNOWLEDGING FUNDS RECEIVED.
C. MEMO AUTHORIZING PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS HIS
SALARY EFFECTIVE 1 NOVEMBER 65 OF $125 MONTHLY.
3. PROJECT LICOLIC WILL BE SUBMITTED FOR EXTRA
$3000 TO PROVIDE LOAN STIPULATING REPAYMENT OVER TWO YEAR
PERIOD.
END OF MESSAGE
*MEXI 4S55 Request approval TICHBORN $3,000 for purchase
car in US..

William V. Broe
Chief, WHD
COORDINATING OFFICEA
SECRET
W.J. Kaufman
C/WH/1
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
COPY NO. 201-253203
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

--- Page 22 ---

4-00000
THOEKI YES NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
X RCF TO FILE NO.
FILE RID RET. TO BRANCH
DESTROY SIG.
FROM MEXICO CITY
ACTION
INFO
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
UNIT NOTIFIED
TOTAL COPIES
ADVANCE COPY
✓ RID COPY
UNIT
TIME
WHE
FILE R
SECRET 2723445Z
DIR CITE EXI 4355
LICOLIC.
TIFORM
28 Sap 65 N 60704
1. PEQ APPROVAL ADVANCE. TICPORN 3000 DOLLARS FOR PURCHASE CAR
IN US, WILL WORK OUT REGULAR REPAYMENT SCHEDULE. DISCUSSED
4TH AUDIOTTE..
2. BICHPORN MUST EXIT AND RECHTER MEXICO PRIOR
PLANS TRAVEL LAREDO, PICK UP CAR, FRESH VISA.
SECRAT
CFN
Tich
201-25321

--- Page 23 ---

14-00000
DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
Chief of Station, Mexico City
PROCESSING ACTION:
* MARKED FOR INDEXING
* NO INDEXING REQUIRED
* ONLY QUALIFIED DESK CAN JUDGE INDEXING
FROM: Chief, WH Division
SUBJECT: Overdue 1964 Covert Income Tax Returns
ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES:
Action Required: Priority
MICROFILM
The following agents in Mexico City are delinquent in
the filing of their 1964 Covert Income Tax returns. You
are requested to obtain these outstanding returns as soon
as possible since delinquent tax returns are subject to 6%
statutory interest on the unpaid tax due from 15 April to
the date of payment, and in addition are also subject to a
penalty of 5% per month, not to exceed 25% of the tax liability.

Jeremy K. BENADUM
Sandra B. CAZAZZUS
LIFEUD/30
LIHUFF/1
LIMOTOR/19
Joyce C. PINEINCH
John R. SANDAMANIE
Philip K. TESSAROLO
Edward G. TICHBORN
Ernest A. LUSBY
Distribution:
Orig & 1 - COS, Mexico City

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: HMMS 4278
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
DATE: 19 August 1965
201-253203

--- Page 24 ---

14-00000
YES NO
TO FILE NO.
X REF TO FILE NO.
FILE RID RET. TO BRANCH
DESTROY SIG.
FROM MEXICO CITY
ACTION
INFO
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
TOTAL COPIES
ADVANCE COPY
✓ RID COPY
UNIT
TIME
BY
WH8
FILE, VR, CA2, CA/FE6, 13/1000, 07/085 07/102, EL, FI/ENTZ, WH 8
SECRET 032232Z
DIR CITE MEXI A330
LIREAM DTDORIC
3 Auc 6524983
1. TICHPORN WILL ATTEND INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON GENERAL
SEMANTICS, SAN FRANCISCO, NIME TO THIPTEEN AUGUST, AT INVITATION
ORGANIZER S.I. HAYAKAWA. HE IS SCHEDULED TO SPEAK ON NINE AUGUST
AND LEAD PANEL DISCUSSION ON THIRTEEN AUGUST. AT. HA YAKAWA'S
SUGGESTION HE WILL MOUNT 1. REAM DISPLAY AND WILL DO WHATEVER
EL SE APPROPRIATE TO PUSH PRODUCT.

2. PLANS TO BE IN CONTACT WITH EDGAR KAISER (THROUGH HAYAKAWA).
CHAIRMAN BOARD KAISER INDUSTRIES, AND WITH PHILANTHROPIST NORMAN
SIMON (THROUGH JUNE MAYNE, HEAD OF TAMAR IND GALLERY). ALTHOUGH
NEITHER TICHON NOP STATION PARTICULARLY SANGUINE POSSIBILITY
CONTRIBUTIONS THARD LIPEAN FROM THESE PERSONAL ITITIES PELIEVE.
SUCH PROMOTIONAL ACTIVITY ON HIS PART HELPS SUPPORT HIS COVER.

3. ME WILL ALSO CALL ON WALLACE STEGNER, HEAD OF CREATIVE
WRITERS CENTER AT STANFORD AND ON APT MUR COONS, EX-PRESIDENT OCCIDENTAL
COOLLEGE, THROUGH WHOM ME HOPES TO BE INTRODUCED TO SUCH CALIFORNIA.
CULTURAL FOUNDATIONS (IPISPECIFIED) AS MIGHT BE INTERESTED IN LIREAM.
201
SECRET
201-253203

--- Page 25 ---

14-0000
SECRET
TACE ZOF Z
IN 24983
2. IF HIS WOULD LIFE TO CONTACT TICHBORN (PERHAPS IN REGARD TO
SUBJECT MEXI 2312) HE WILL BE REVERLY HILTON LOS ANGELES FROM
FOUR TO SIGHT AUGUST AND AT FRANCIS DRANE SAN FRAN EIGHT TO THIRTEEN
AUGUST.
SECRET
CEN: 4339 LIGHSOON CENTRAL SEMANTICS SAN FRANCISCO SI HAYAKAWA
HAYAKAWA'S LIRIAN EDGAR KAISER MAYAKAWA KAISER NORMAN. SIMON.
JUNE WAYNE TAPAS IND ME IT MEP TICHBORN NOR STATION LIREAM WALLACE
STEGNER STANDFORD APTMS COONS EX-PRESIDENT OCCIDENTIAL
COLLEGE CALIFORNIA LIPEAM, HOS TICHBORN 4312 PEVERLY HILTON LOS
ANGELES FRANCIS DRAKE S
ST
SECRET

--- Page 26 ---

14-00000
29 June 1965.
MEMORANDUM. POR: Chief, WH Division
SUBJECT: Edward G. TICHEBORN
dit for Social Security loverage
1. the responsibility for filing Schedules SE (Form 1040) "G. S.
Report of Self-Employment income" with the Social Security Administra
tion for credit to the taxpayer's social security account has bees
delegated to this office for those individual who have filed covert
returns.

2. In order to discharge this responsibility sed to insure that
each contract agent receives full social security credit for any
self employment tax peld through the Covert Unit, It is necessary for
this office to prepare the Schedule SF (Form 1040) for each taxpayer
for secure transtission to the Social Security Adostration. c
order to complète Ford S for Subject contract Agent, it is necessary
that the following information (designated by an "X"); be furnished;

_rue Nase (As it appears on Subject's Social Security Card)
Social Security Number
Stateside address currently applicable or the address used
when the expsyer last resided in the U. S.
Type of Business activity to be reflected in reporting
Social Security credits from self employmeat, such as
management consultant, translator, writer, etc.
Sicce a three year statute of limitations applies to the filing
of self-employment schedules for scoial security coverage, it la requested
that the above information be furnished as soon as possible. Any questions
regarding this subject should be directed to 08/10/dovert fax Branch.

S M DIARY
Chief, Tovert Tex Branch
03

--- Page 27 ---

14-00000
SECRET
10 June 1965
MEMORANDUM FOR: CI/OA
ATTENTION: Mr. Lally
SUBJECT: Edward G. TICHBORN (201-253203)
REFERENCES: CI/OA Memorandum of 30 September 1964
CI/OA Memorandum of 3 June 1961

1. All of the information requested on Subject has now
been submitted to your office. Project LICOLIC, which provides
support for TICHBORN, describes Subject's duties as follows:
a. Subject moves in Mexican leftist and Marxist
intellectual circles with a good range of associations in this
milieu; in this context, he has successfully developed and now
publishes an intellectual magazine under Station direction.

b. He is available to the WH Division for travel to
other Latin American countries for political assessments or
for ad hoc assignments involving contact with local political
figures of interest.

c. He is used to handle dissident or disaffected
Communists or far leftists where contacts are required by
other Stations and where CA objectives are involved.

3. It is requested that a new OA on Subject be expedited.

W. J. Kaufman
Chief, WH/1
DDP/WH/1/CHalliwell:ljc (10 June 1965)
Distribution:
0 & 1 - Addressee
✓ 1 - 201-253203

--- Page 28 ---

14-00000
SECRET
REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW
DATE
3 June 1965
TO: WH/1 - R. Armijo
FROM: CHIEF, CI/OA
SUBJECT: Edward P. Brown
C NO.
201-253203
LOPAZ, Henry P.
IN ORDER THAT FURTHER CONSIDERATION MAY BE GIVEN YOUR REQUEST FOR APPPOVAL IN THIS CASE. IT IS REQUESTED
THAT YOU FURNISH THIS OFFICE THE INFORMATION CHECKED BELOW, OR REVIEW INFORMATION AS INDICATED.
PRO 1
PRO 11
FIELD TRACES
RI TRACES
OPERATIONAL AND DIVISION TRACES
RESULTS OF TECHNICAL INTERROGATION
GREEN LIST
NOTICE:
FIRST
REMARKSI
REVIEW OF STAFF/D DOSSIER
REVIEW OF STAFF/D COLLATERAL