```markdown
14-00000
104-10193-10163
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS
FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: FRONT NATIONALE
(NATIONAL FRONT)
INCLUSIVE DATES:
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: LOUSE DOCUMENTS
ROOM:
DELETIONS, IF ANY: THIRD AGENCY DOCUMENT

DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
7/30 - 195002787 - ALDEBE OFF - Phoebe C. Orr

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

---

14-00000

DEPARTMENT OF STATE MEMORANDUM DATED 20 DECEMBER 1948
(FRONT NATIONALE FRANCE)
THIRD AGENCY

---

14-00000
9 August 1944

SECRET
LONDON
COUNTRY: France
SUBJECT: Resistance and Labor organisation in Normandy; Civilian Attitudes.
ORIGINAL REPORT NO: V-130
DATE OF REPORT: 17/24 July 1944
EVALUATION: B-2
CONFIRMATION: -
SUPPLEMENT: -
CORRECTION: -
SOURCE: OGS 3rd Army - GUD SOURCE
DATE OF INFORMATION: Undated
PLACE OF ORIGIN: France
JBP/fb.
THEATRE: ETO-London
DISTRIBUTION:
Mr. Phillips
Cmdr. Kittredge
G-2 SHARP
G-2 12TH AG
MIG
SHIR
Exi)
K&A
MO
OWL
20
1470
EAC
Samt (tros)
X2
WASH
AL
NUMBER OF PAGES: 2
ATTACHMENTS:
The Conseil de la Resistance in Cherbourg is composed of three main groups: the O.C.M., Liberation and the Front National.
The Chief of the Conseil de la Resistance, M. Greslin, is an O.C.M. leader and his organization holds the majority of seats in the Conseil. The O.C.M. is generally composed of merchants, landowners and notables who, prior to the armistice, were Rightists or extreme-Rightists.
Liberation, which claims to have been the most active and efficient movement in the Department, is led by and generally composed of Socialists and C.G.T. In fact all the Resistance Socialists and Union men are members of Liberation.
As in the rest of France, the Front National is here the Communist Party's resistance organization. It is not as influential here as it is reported to be in other regions.
The right hand man to M. Greslin is M. Boucher (Cauchet), who seems to be as well the most prominent Labor leader of the department. Boucher is at the same time secretary of the Regional Socialist Federation, secretary of the Merchant Sailor's Union, secretary of the Union des Syndicats, representative of the I.T.F. and head of the local Liberation movement. He is a very efficient man and seems to be respected and esteemed by his political adversaries.

The enthusiasm in favor of the Allies described in the newspapers should not be overestimated. The Norman did not like the Germans and is glad that they have been thrown out. But a very

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION
STATE
TREAS.
RETURN TO
IMMEDIATELY AFTER USE
JOB26-780 BOX 469
320487

---

14-00000

SECRET
SV-130.
great number of people here are suspicious of Resistance because of the presence of Communists and Socialists. Moreover, they are very reserved towards foreigners as a rule, and they are not sure of what the Allies intend to do. They are also puzzled about the currency which has been introduced. On the part of Labor, there is a sincere enthusiasm for the victories of the democracies somewhat tempered by the way local problems are handled by military authorities. For example, the Army have hired dozens of workers to repair the Cherbourg harbor without consulting the unions. They have thus given work to former Todt workers, more or less reliable, while skilled workers who were in Resistance Movement are left unemployed. Instances of this kind are frequent.

SECRET

---

14-00000

---

14-00000

---

14-00000

---

14-00000
Ange
that C
a.titio.

+ not in intalni
de sudous aid quo 1.1
din; relations of the mosballt anty
Solder of the dy pal of the port
of the Need is the fuct
oof and the may sudŋovatele
fual. of li
with resistane
pranga.
for the far a 1 rele
at Custom bato son thi
ta said he had h px. this
Dew dents of thist
arty would stituts a great de precrated result of the Atma,
suring the core of the
to tristica by De talente
17.3.
21 the
Choixlosive prion
secteur of the paty,
listos oko co trylig
that to bucks of the 126 ran at a cup of
to take advance of the attention of a olitical pow.",
--m
12. As for Pungi in poltar, gengrad itself supposed to the
higrony of exp one [reat pose, cather it be it, the United status ar
Bala, andavor of o arreter of calles. acuity, with all is dŒQ=
rable nation of the parla spally repressed in a interactional de la-
cos of atto
halten alødd 21 cm nory, credit šaraport,
sta, tu and be to paantee the
Herd1: te tre teat a
mn, the sgrunn rate fa eneo ya bereat of the cowboy,
but approva on
eye allied control of al cos in-
Juntry and
roa.1 a long for the peeing, tion jetrea
cuta,
14. Perundarty. Geodia tofu,
on of 3. ocial
members in theor.
the
da la
dovery of the meuloa
width claim to hure 4,002
resed dacard to quote ange figures,
iet par geen olioare in th
th3 10 list:: to chira seat b
in its tilint lley & ea the tre
Doneat with aliata
old
predat rubber pertented a that rán čega?p>
oth the at the
30 12
Po ontem fro the ca
You
stated t
.int
lourists rupeeting the
ty och retu
ustlozeligt i the fur that it be suit to return to a revolus
tomy
15. nothing
sted heals
Trano as the
par terts;
theatre
bozone
17.
Aais
1025the
301
baton 1
*.
3
105
thea!)
ely vol. :
reng the
16 W
end sepetes
fora
th,
carlosID
along bible with the Chris
intrec - ao loput it jinga
✔
tion last
11
flohe
uld t
the gods.
1 roleta cos
7% 0
.:
ondag 1 the blo
aralinger xists, t = 1. c.
en
1 to 2 ¿rigi
od to the oleation in their
129 8.1, or the værte in Copart
- Rf..

---

14-00000

nent: 1 and
A
hi
And afree
of conducting
1eraton ourition:
1.27
ll
stated
s i'r cl
wanlonitica e sold of latious art
vonon's rote constituted in eqarimant in ho es u
chairents mkite me still it ma
feel tht to ed elections no veide meds of strength for
us for the goodata.) tinna lege, cum stated
flatly tatlived to a sculd b posional, th
taking ito pán đó na to have everything indil 19 in to the e coitosa
aro held in y
1.3. hoth the uni chier cr
noting
pártically
for per
but wolnise o.
in hi
the var,
aoks of 2
promisunt of fate ust stoppliva, Toshiar w *
and Zie his active penicîprit, on in rastat se abdes
Sant No tua fe of the " į at ovulən
end that he not be a wo the bit of the polding mat
15,
ethered sales of radon, de
Honary of addition - along with therity 2
of too
22.
Accordi
16.
to the ford ec, the trad
pepse publicado, tas a deti ti
ciretion.
For Mont
bible: Nealon Seation of the fi 505
tl 3.
Jouzisa, atio, oratury; Chester, der head re-
urar.
7. doğumesantal beration of the in the factors
Labroaŋo hoyou to Dave it before the end of the year,
a morbez ship the Toulon sosios of 1,000 but this oppors to be an A¥£***
::ca, Jabrona atated at the Toulon edition of the Christian er et moss.
paper. Je legional, publishersally up a local sireulasica of 2,000.
This Toulon on as started t
22. The
mimin (17) is the set of
the RP at Toabos, Autoale taking serious offerts
to capture the women's vote, 7. series of the free weakly polition Decontes,
starting 13 recipher 1945 had test organized by the GPCS.
23.
Rrdicsciallot to univers: Ur stated that the Madical.
Coolalisto posent as a loud force in the ver.
head juurter: been in oude from the brie' niwa.
paper autourget, no of y ricalcialist activity discoverat,
24.
othing, of the is optimatie over the possibility of
fusi in bet the and to in the after the more int just
reached betne. the two groups in the dormt of the Card. on the other
hand, arig 6, the point out that razy members of his gantsation
aro nesitant about uniting with the FX, dress they are in this on atterot

---

14-00000
Report No.
to >
the IN. Rondrei,
are the toya tot tiny groups. Pris sat.
ofiss al.. hpnition
11:1
wrget
17.2.20
31
܂
..
Sel typ
Ting to representative of the
wp de alimves y cobertes o
241 2497 maben 1 1997.
before the in the
Dorset
alid workers in ether t
Jean
to
*
vans and pod 13 ta orces to
Tugu
x:0
Berat en
1-12
an
tesso
...L
*
19.30
"
potas
dese ona y
. Mereto
a
ཁོ་
"
1.augh
#bility
on the of
outer 1914.
of the 10
lization of
po the selariza
cl
Lebar
6
into
this mo
1. in
"
creatx
or high.
getting up 15
only 1 franca
1h 105 to
cats an int l.-
Sun Shogi vita tu deltoc s task of working
dre for the rela
1 ofe
a tent
cor-
risa
2
17
Meatse
ci
*
and :
Autotel (Derrat.
boat 7 k eet of man, he ho
Drive to catete Commerce
brachyl
i bertena
& ro.
17 for pre 2 o
by
..
2.0%.
>
32%
******
<15>
2.
the
1.21.
x
1
ate and black macht
al
.:1
2. as on
wbee of the
23
་་
܀܂
i
at te
c
Nel for
1.
A
1236 02 24
col
LNKY
1 of
2.
品
*
'
3.
toms o
State
25°
Di 3) be pop ·
cues,
ev. 1:6 a rar
,
Barret
22 f
it of
boer..
234 677
10:
er:
sit
the p
10 read the Ditury
ce site on the
tore to
setter detents of expe
3.
Eur
the
C

---

14-00000

》:。
6%
1:
2
anne Cit
***
ih:
ia
:1'
+1:
རྞ ཀྑ"
Scents
but 35
slemata agere in
22
nogten up somĄC
1. L15
#
ror all of
prat, the formerly oral cat of of thei
147
18
03
Quented
S
be
1
Lect
118
antar of t
i Acacia Colete
21.
cr
I
.0.0.
1)
tn
ว
-2
*
ст
C...
18]
19.
1:
shortly for the fort to join th
Mahon le faired on ginale des
X GF
>
ilor station pa
unca ha
ta'
1 of RT
: ܕܡ
and pr
J.,
on the
+
> and
for i
ales >
yould
etr alda, Sheen ease leren.
af border, mic, deamed dors
The
.
options 100% sale to p
106
cirlion
Tadeo,
de c
.
city
3* *
tere
(3335023
c
9.
r
=
t :
voce at 23
("." ⑈f
}:
W
int
t..
109.
Both the
Man
08. Sup to te
1 fort.
ct
the
busin
Golie over
unt.
2:
...
CY
C
the itation
: t. 21 an
renen

---

14-00000
YEN
part
25.
timɔ afet c
21,7 mm c2 9. ɔu hạt not what
1.9 de 1: ion of
The
11.
1) 15
c.
to
stem) that
☑R
th
36.
The pan,
a
CALI..
750
1.3
fa
25%
Bordon to a vily fr
ried on
T
29...
13
part macie fend hit t
11 The center of tea ta 1711, squat me! al dire of
of of 15,1 hoursa bu
master
as to be but n
sptially defect be
my people do keele ve
J.J.'
dige
tively des Toys
cit
irs. het which
Foto of the
ir
tite
*
17
Ms of
32:
.
kerage
:: 7
i yst
fr
:
120710
Roval
*:
of
1 to
Mit gone to our dag se po sa dejen
3.
(i).
1.
**
:
sile added
1 & 1979
Dog
•Song of t
1. a tome od
200
sa aquara peces of index porne,
sofia repair
sorden in
3
30
0
14 7
i
...
1. c
she
The
771
10
100.
:
0.5.
5.J.
כי;
Fr.
AC
xi
-0.1.-
11207
..)
chi
100p.
fac
**
9721
32
:
112
!
al
:
too :
܂
;
'
>>
f
512
A
01
5
inc
X re
50
..
!‛ ུ《;
33 P
T. 0°
Y
01.120
F
14-00000

---

14-00000
1:
j.
:
12.4
 ݂ܕ
11
سولة
S
+
xxx tu
of a
A
* ༣-
ལ…} ཚཱཀྵ༑ ་
11.
thecia
:
de 1 -
Hoever.
The foo
:: 浅いここ。
The meets
frendo ex
terall
Kirk un
1.
* X
:
13. 20
Fice a i
02
1
3.5)
atice
...
43

---

14-00000
20
܇ ܐ:
17
T
Lang
1. c.
1.
(1) NI..
10 in byber
y
Sparta.
Ja
-
2.7 x
dejte
- IN
r
0,20.
Te..
PLOTNEGA
CC: Clea
cho dos
3 a..
܀ܝ܂
As a
fui
Intro tor
I...
BOS
*
J
::.
att
erica
"
**
p
crite
'2%
វ
F
+30
Iberic
ti
omini de in
Nationals
ers!
100XX 2
og lyse
(

---

14-00000
AL
P.
050-11
AN
NO 1-489
fromance
Inforton Late
Talub
"cutce
7-10 br 1994
: Teuber 199
tion rate ? Jdaway
1-2
Roten on Kaylon

---

14-00000
I
3,
fra
surnuty. The
the on
014
ta
but be
dent
"teateja tha reives vélte undilling So tem
gea, te ne about the sa
i
aring ng
40 for
any figures
Tu,
Pole..
salon (4) corpora
Nof
(od
nditionally e
secialists
election are
the
by fax the
He pointed ar
Sold in 1939, of 2 genelliera ge
s; be state
of card out wheel,
$
1.
A
R
E.
Scold the politi
situation is cool by the exerc
h
N, apt that ince the work of the
to give say to the pelisical p
Adore notivated bone of bestand heat,
to replace all towar the and Tradera,
No Calza
alates
lichal,
řividui sui oled the airply to Ne 7691
Megaslation and in
a
at in private onservation, and octalist
ore the of
tia Tre so bouton, 3 (upertor tengal, the
y
Tobitny
tried at presosial o'
see a flash pa
Defence:
els of pay before ect.)
ciddi
ara
The
thelo....
) e
4. 1.
Ancient on the parent
27 F
:..
a
: ני: *** **
a Rance
1
he c
a to des

---

14-00000
:
:
per
p after het sell eger cose
47. Body met frem čak se proviso) 1,7¸ que
sus repulir
so i
the trend the oder
thell Despite this hot, dover, Md kopeli ja oli dvayna ven
De Pebr
ocal
of all,
and huge
of normal the
metin of the
9.
:
Dea
:
the ben
now
god råtated
pushed datig
ket of t
tion ne bild
wer of r r c the
When 300 and
#N
old >>> chection to the Dayton, be at eas ta.
orduated
Jason,
14 a 0.7o. :.
of
at kostet debate potund og dracusof the striates to the t
Neting of "
ist derties of th
Tony
Trevor Den by they
condo il bis
polia paypoqonated glyoners
My be to
#
this
try out to put in
would
of the
we place
leader p
of the quake of the cruised; the pls in favor of
the Impoc
So we proudly
y la apponed, auto vend
Jean, no seater fra forty
reconsignation and
10.
At Iron
13.
C
peter of collen so the
ugh noon to Be of ap
level wite
col and the
Pedal
* killed
w toura
Potion as
tentiation of dioni
holy of work et
fa barni alatio
f
3:
The free dualna tabi-
uf bespoed, at he would be to art
11,
During that there to start envétet of the combifies fɔtydi
apels the
the com

---

14-00000
Lage
i
that they not intalning a aufristen ty todepoulait and dipolityand
attitude.
4
12. in discausing relation of the nasal girty with real stande ground,
solder of the of the party for the fur and plan
of the regret over the fut at tyson
zodi lige ergy and the 278 not see suid he had hope this
fuát nog nái fali belgient of the elulist
at would constitute a greatest cilit porty of the Nitura,
curls in Bogie on the sans explosive option
to a treimssion by pet of the vincteur of the party,
that the lender of the rise adely avap of its who were trying
to "take advanse of the attention of political po
13.
tion of natio
as for forgian polfer, the conread expressed itself as opposed to the
goy of one prea phether it to itu, the United status o
Raila, sni in favor of e apeter of collecshe accurity, with all the damp-
ératio nations of the world equally represented in an international 'ausola,
The boulder is om any, credit, transport,
5to, in under to be cale to quanter the ponds. Hegerding the treatreat of
Gaming, the grean valcal fopposition to say di creabenent of the country,
Sut approved a long cacaption of the severe allied control of all
in-
Justry and our a lonjunge progres for the reeducation of Gerren
youth,
147
Gouldst Party Aceoding to teach, secretary of the Poulou
vation of
let the mwita claim to have 4,000 registered
members in the vor.
15.
Coat lealers 15tertioxed Unclined to quote any figures,
potty peencontrabat morter of statuins that the gemvp-
Leto uavo seinel many followers in the Te otice the ew, at the erzono æ
the listy to claims that she results to e logo ostent from the Can
munists' mation:list policy and also the the young, vigorous lcelera
Dompet with the ilia mill Love Song loudnes representing the
old rei. I stated that the policy of the wint Party moule reveÍM
astionalist is the fuse; that it would be difficult to return to a revolue
story prom
along beitee with the Christion
16. ruthier unsorted that the Cartists
Tamo at them with the soils, aince the Inter - as he put it - pincea
part, incertats above the attic interegs,
17. the constata nne opposed to the lig of elections naxt very,
Thoir rensoni atonal follose salsations were schooled tefors
theangalie of hosted oven by the Allies as a meas of lol.
AG W populus feraletes that Culled the
sounity atm. (that th
cagalzal the Gulle over
rens, the poing a slevatora no longer exists, idea,
14 world do wi fuir to it for the retira of the bon private s
und depeted
sedin to the polls.
to ama of th
hown the
the coralsts are posed to the oleations in their
strength dich tast now it or the varicus Topist.
fear of losia
for
rode
Alf...

---

14-00000
折
L
apart no.
montel on tontally, as hin 10
netice holes of sorts at que pegart
And, of coon's rite constituted un spicient in how net ir 28var
of corseting ich asperiments mille Prince in still it
sell
feel that to ord elections not would mass of strength foll
us for the Comino egre, Cum wilstruntetpaleistated
flatlytat de olieved the bits scald brosional, although parts in
aising ito plena so ná o kava osoytang in die in de theelecitona
aro held in par
18. Hoth 237eme un ochier critical theme this far, Sve, fer
not being
enough in him lit; er gols don
particularly the promment of spate pool supplica Poshtar ris
for at perend the his active pickyrtion in revistë antities
but pointed out ht ha a forrar they of the of avalon
end that ho ind not broken as for the old wbity of the polding overwat
fono ionnaira,
19.
Futhier decribed dialers, eritive of roulon, rese.
tionery of addition along with the great rarity of hig
officerent Toulon sal be
20. According to All the Tordon edition of Bouguid, the round st
paper published in all, has a deily circulation of 1000 ana mung
circulation a 15,000.
21,
bla ulire: The Talon station of the was
form bouls month ago, Ta oficers we. Lebrosse, pasićma; 7,
Jouzisa, atio, oratury; Chester, der head re-
urar.
7. doğumesantal beration of the in the factors
Labroaŋo hoyou to Dave it before the end of the year,
a morbez ship the Toulon sosios of 1,000 but this oppors to be an A¥£***
::ca, Jabrona atated at the Toulon edition of the Christian er et moss.
paper. Je legional, publishersally up a local sireulasica of 2,000.
This Toulon on as started t
22. The
mimin (17) is the set of
the RP at Toabos, Autoale taking serious offerts
to capture the women's vote, 7. series of the free weakly polition Decontes,
starting 13 recipher 1945 had test organized by the GPCS.
23.
Rrdicsciallot to univers: Ur stated that the Madical.
Coolalisto posent as a loud force in the ver.
head juurter: been in oude from the brie' niwa.
paper autourget, no of y ricalcialist activity discoverat,
24.
othing, of the is optimatie over the possibility of
fusi in bet the and to in the after the more int just
reached betne. the two groups in the dormt of the Card. on the other
hand, arig 6, the point out that razy members of his gantsation
aro nesitant about uniting with the FX, dress they are in this on atterot

---

14-00000
Report No
thetor the N
are still conting group
discussieas
ris sent to although
of the are not coriandas all the position ponsibility
in den held bi
ending to servous, reprévenutive of the fun on the e
2000 värialevel rebere of the ver
4th 29.97 1997.
☑
octer 19
of the 1105
ung habere the coin our the bat of the lization of
Brokers are req.bigay din compacito the selaris
oasidial worker in other traße.
creatxi
by the who orce to corta high..
per oxaripio. vekars in the big red getting up to
3 hour, what we can only 12 fràncɔ
Bessore potats out in not posso ratom all nelaries to
the devela enfae by the this word cause an infle.
Therefore,
hog with the delicate took of working
tor vectat exientom salariss
,ܕ _!C
time or the relo
and the others.
ay the are plator Baltez
Ab
Postes
as
- le
and Sanitision
Cloco do fotal of 3 officers and
2nder the culb1 (Berat,
i hendquarters
are ng pylwden, about 7 l weet of mon, of the Chotoon
quisitionca privesa entate Cormerly occupial brichy (Goupe bilia
de N
2%
e & Fam
15tery
Tonguies und berat form part of the of
gion (etlere, uten Alpen, z pes, Norities. Bowlsin flows,
JK)
by al cantonen änutes an' pieced the veral o
allot, The : une ficial, pedig under the profit
of the id 11 any ego, the
ning to
fa tha to the
at
MAPS
oit of ca
maintaining order.
polical ricevers
T. The
act and black marketers and
bus the dietal sack of gwrding the ch
_ pombers of the father or
1.056 francs oathing officers and softer recive
Wor
Pey
20. R: 168 at ho to edit meel of art and quement eta mɔn,
The firm for pets 30 10, and towel re con-
love sea and gunu, rinted on that it
moult most great deal for the disipline of his men if they would all be peop
and appl. No hastened to it to spite of incurstonces,
p: 0. An inspontics
the waters, hoever reveled a rather
anilla; the yea lecked the litary frat sheas and bar of tratand
rais waking on the pre more romp then tha
rumbers of the tore to retention en'mluts at the appromen of it. Colone!
Bart
Hot stetoi that he bed sens detuents out on expelons in the
**

---

14-00000
:
29.
The
! ..
1
R
30.
stated t e and detects up on ex eittoas last
blaar - clefents of which
body
septere in w
een reparos dalies
To not trede contect
3 seteculating in
lothes in goal to go krw
də 200
Leftat, the mas formerly oportunal chef of the mill
cat shu ka st:11 a mosine of the departmental
כי.
to
tritiqueal, clatris - Sepal
Burmal stated cars of the 11th to ant of the
po fit che forner were gayiddidiriilaas derating moby Sheir sprates vine.
tak.
2.1 acdoning to it, placed at the of the ver
cintia dest, mice the command of
Solona (17) atratori come ch about 1,000 hay and is prepa©•
ng to best shortly for the front to join the legal por In Ti
balance des
rodito one the
me vete non lung bean toul brand
Tendon Rationa
12
in sailors stationce in mod repart a mber of opta rigata and
even pensen, grille,
fol
a eros violent to Frenck would
rot vos por poble.
30% by
can
33.
their alda, the french, teater or dagser degree, csontful
ever the ton bor of Too, onde destofcity:
t/w's ot¢ over the the thus tarian food
supplied the cirilion ropulsion hove not a stred in para que vities,
casu (a Covelasa, rocut, reteras, of the leg and aquisard for over
touring lids or red bisterly in cand 10
restons cat on high but meritetin d not river nar-
Sang 4%, coutey to the expected of the ware colé at 50
to 20
34-
10
fel hende of.
sond relation
or not pro
sta gentri foli to
it by Gotem ter his pecoll;
with the De Gil gown and evo
to be lle; a report
Apap circito hoffect that they be
rice
grand or stop
in
of
dipkantie nervesentatives detrated
dhi the posibility of rotting
Toplasing the De della Coversant,
circul ting
the alboration
to the city and
up a wrench

---

14-00000
35. besser alubjatated shas met joinje neza no draftig shig en tallies
tooth
desigion of the Got to disip
tht contention, in state) the
the role Kd no id
: the pyré men wo jan served vichregine,
the
CandƏ
the Tol.ca
36.
The
situation.
Suction.
Nadon tish mir evil from led orbing.
one postaci dard hit,
causa the center of towa is 1,
350
bureen of
Hon, of a sos of houses foulon, 993 aturely destroyed,
pere den fer
at difficus obteft. budding at what to saka
sipco it
the matela
ge
ere
rtially do if
onery pople do ecleos or
fya; e Jorge
the hand sath
pops of 160,000 and Sport
Aw the on of onto
senge with
er leyp bot yat set
u Tesla Mo
during th
Toulon normal
thea of suguns; 10 hod rimon to
120, no.
houses which
of the
ride end rel