```markdown
toa-10778-10164 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME:
Luis Clemente POSADA Carriles
201-300985
VOL. I

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:
ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY: THIRD AGENCY DOCUMENTS

DATE
RECEIVED

DATE
RETURNED

REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

(Formerly CIFENCE-4)

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000
[CROSS REFERENCE TO
FO
DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING

FROM
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

Chief of Station, Caracas

SUBJECT
Raul and Roberto POSADA Carriles

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

1. AMCLEVE-15 recently received a letter from his
mother in Cuba, in which she gave him news of Raul and Roberto POSADA Carriles.

2. Raul spends most of his time in Cienfuegos because
he is directing the installation of a thermoelectric plant
in the area. A snapshot of Raul was enclosed, and we are
enclosing a blow-up of Raul for your information.

3. Roberto is apparently in Havana (at least not in
Cienfuegos), and the only comment about him was that he
is suffering from back trouble.

Oscar C. Kalbing
Oscar C. KALBING

ATTACHMENT:
As stated para 2 (2 copies)

DISTRIBUTION:
CH/WHD (w/att, h/w)

DESPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
HVCA-15572

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

DATE
JUN 28 1968

28 June 1968

OS FILE NUMBER
201-300985

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

Suspects of
A les sept
byter for Cubs to
201
Att to E
200935
15772,
2 June 6S
Raul POSADA Carrikes
bro. of AMCLEVE-15.
June 21, 1968

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000

DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
MICROFILM

FROM
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

Chief of Station, Caracas

SUBJECT
Report from Cuban Exile
PBRUMEN/AMCLEVE-15

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES
See below.

1. Forwarded herewith for your information is a report
furnished by AMCLEVE-15 on 26 June 1968. AMCLEVE-15 received
the information from Jorge MAS Canosa, who got it from Johnny
Alvart, who recently arrived in Miami from Cuba.

2. The report names Jorge Norate as a Cuban lieutenant
who studied rocketry in the USSR for three years. It states
that Norate is disaffected with the Castro regime and sells
things on the black market that the Russians bring into Cuba.
The report also mentions that "El Gallego" Fernandez, chief
of a squadron of MIG's at the Olguin Air Base, is also
disaffected with the Castro government and used to give
Alvart information about the base. Fernandez told him that
in April 1968 there were severe fuel restrictions on the
air base which limited the MIG flights.

3. JMWAVE may wish to contact Alvart if it has not
already done so.

Oscar C. Kalbing
Oscar C. KALBING

ATTACHMENT:
As stated para 1

DISTRIBUTION:
2 - COS/JMWAVE (w/att, 1 pouch)
CH/WHD (w/att, h/w)

CROSS REFERENCE TO
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
HVCA-15571

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

DATE
JUN 28 1968

28 June 1968

OS FILE NUMBER
201-300985

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000

Información sobre Oficiales del Gobierno de Cuba.
AUTOR: C
Jonny Alvart.

1. T ALVART, recientemente llegado de Cuba a MIAVI por los Vuelos de
Libertad, se confid a JORGE MAS C el siguiente informaci6n:
Elena JAG MORATE, que tenía los grados de Teniente en el Ejercito Rebelde,
fue a la Chien Evistica ha recibir cursos sobre coheteria, all pass tres dues
corous, hassu llegada a Cuba y ya experto en coa countca dicho sufato
ful grado en una alt posiela, que ce algo com Encargado de la Costa Sur de
Cuba con mas alta jerarquía. Este olemento contenfa mucha amistad
ALVART y se dedicaba entre otras cosas a la bolca negra en Cuba, Couer-
con artículos, que tratan los rusas do la Union Sovietion. Tambien informa
ALVAR que NOTATE era desafecto a el Gobierno y que so podía hablar de cualquior
de com ft.

2. Aco egige de ALVART un individuo llamado EL GALLEGO FERNANDEZ que os Jožo
driala de los aviones MIG do la Base merca do Olguin. Dicho individuo . -
TE ALVART era desafecto a el gobierno, y le daba informaciones de la Busu
‘a; uza de esse informaciones es que en el mes de Abril labia una gran res-
18 de combustible cq limitaban los vuelos de los MIG.

JUN 28 1968

MICROFILMED
JUL 11 1968
DOC. MICRO. BER.

CS COPY
30041

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000
FROM: HVCA-15519, 7 June 1968
75-6-43/3
SUBJECT: CIGUSTY Operational Reporting for May 1968

AMCLEVE-15
Subject continues to provide valuable
information on CIRASH and CIVISTA-5.
He took an SGSWIRL examination which
successfully cleared up some points
that had been of concern to Headquarters.

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000
TO: WH/COG
SECRET
FROM: Interrogation Research Division
SUBJECT: AMCLEVE/15 -- IDEN A
201-300985
LX-3521
7 June 1968
IRD #72501
BACKGROUND:
Subject is a 40-year-old PBRUMEN male who has been of continuing
WOFIRM interest since initial contact with JMWAVE and more recently
with the Caracas Station as a penetration of the IDEN B organization.
PURPOSE/PROCEDURE:
Subject was SGSWIRLed at the request of the Caracas Station because
of several issues which tended to question Subject's bona fides, possible
affiliation with PBRUMEN intelligence through relatives, unreported associ-
ation with gangster elements, thefts from WOFIRM, plus other items specified
in questions listed below. The interview was conducted in the home of
Oscar C. KALBING in both English and Spanish. (Subject's English is quite
good, however, during actual testing Spanish was used to avoid ambiguity or
misunderstanding of the question content.) KALBING did the translating.
RESULTS:
Subject remains sensitive to one question which is related to his past
dealings with IDEN C but in fairness to Subject this sensitivity is believed
generated by genuine uncertainty over the amount of items which he had
been instrumental in getting for IDEN C. Sensitivity initially recorded in
other areas was resolved through post-test discussion and responses to all
other questions are regarded as substantially truthful. Subject was most
cooperative and candid throughout the entire interview.
DETAILS:
Because of the numerous issues which were believed in need of clarifi-
cation, a three phase test was structured prior to the interview and rehearsed
with Subject completely before any testing took place. Discussions, as noted,
were in both English and Spanish. Specific questions asked of Subject and
answers given by him are as follows:
SECRET
CS COPY
300985

--- Page 8 ---

14-00000
Page 2
IRD #72501
SECRET
Have you used any name besides IDEN A? Answer: No, except
for nicknames and aliases used with WOFIRM.
Have you ever travelled to Washington, D. C.? Answer: Yes.
Once several years ago.
Have you ever been to the Soviet Union? Answer: No.
Are any of your relatives members of the Communist Party?
After some discussion Subject felt it probable that they were.
Those specifically mentioned were his two brothers IDEN D
and IDEN E and also possibly a sister named IDEN F who is
also in PBRUMEN and married to a Captain in the Militia.
When the question was prefaced with the words: "Is it your
belief that any of your relatives are members," Subject's
answer was always yes. He based this belief on the fact that
both brothers hold highly responsible positions in key industries
in PBRUMEN and hence must be members. He also noted that
prior to his leaving PBRUMEN, he (Subject) and his two brothers
had many discussions about politics and their views differed
from Subject's. As for his brother IDEN E, Subject regarded
him as the "brain" in the family and originally a very religious
person who attended Catholic services daily. He later evinced
distrust for the clergy in PBRUMEN and blamed them for the
downfall of the church. When Castro made his move, IDEN E
was in complete sympathy with him and remained with him
despite his apparent conversion to Communism, although
IDEN E never acknowledged that he had been a Communist and
would usually retort with a comment that he (IDEN E) was a
"humanist."
Are any of your relatives working for PBRUMEN Intelligence?
His answer was that he felt that at least one of them was accord-
ing to what KALBING inferred during his discussion with Subject
the day before the SGSWIRL test. This was his brother IDEN D,
but he also wondered about his brother IDEN E who might also be
with PBRUMEN intelligence because according to what his mother
mentioned in a letter some time ago, IDEN E had been in the
USSR receiving training of some sort. This training lasted for
a full year and occurred in 1962 to the best of Subject's memory.
Subject was reasonably sure of this date because of the "Missile
crisis" and President Kennedy's death which occurred later.
SECRET

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000
Page 3
IRD #72501
SECRET
After this discussion the question read: "Is it probably that
your relatives (brothers) are working for PBRUMEN Intelli-
gence? Answer: Yes."
Did you know your brother (IDEN D) was working with IDEN G
before we told you? Answer: No. But again had some
suspicions.
Besides the letters we asked you to send to your brothers have
you communicated with anyone in PBRUMEN? Answer: Yes.
His mother about two or three times a year and with an aunt
named IDEN H which was the person to whom he actually
addressed the letter to his brother which WOFIRM asked him
to write. This letter incidentally was posted in 1967 (a few
months before coming to Caracas) and not 1966 as noted in
Station files. Since arrival in Caracas, Subject has written
his mother only once and had the letter posted from Miami to
prevent anyone knowing his exact whereabouts. (In addition
to these contacts, Subject has sent one telegram to his mother
soon after the IDEN I just to let her know he was alright.) It
was about this time that IDEN E wrote to him and criticized
his participation in IDEN I.
Do.
Have you seen either of your brothers since 1961? Subject answered
Last saw IDEN E at the airport in the distance but there
were employees from IDEN E's place of employment present
and IDEN E was apparently reluctant to go near the plane. Since
1961 Subject has not seen any member of his family and as time
goes on does not miss them as much. The persons he claims to
have been closest to were his aunt and grandmother and addresses
comments to them personally when he does write to his mother.
When further discussing his brothers on this question, Subject
was somewhat complimentary despite their differing political .
views and generally considered them as hard-working energetic
types with good school records.
Do you have a secret means of contacting anyone in PBRUMEN?
Claims he knows of friends who have used telegrams to transmit
coded messages but he has never engaged in such activity. These
messages were directed against the PBRUMEN.
SECRET

--- Page 10 ---

14-00000
Page 4
IRD #72501
SECRET
Have you ever been in Communist China? Answer: No.
Have you ever worked for the intelligence service of any country
besides IDEN J and LNILARP? Answer: No.
Have you ever received intelligence training in PBRUMEN?
Answer: No.
Have you ever been a member of any Communist guerrilla group?
Answer: No. Later explained sensitivity to the question as
emanating from current work with two former Communist
guerrillas named IDEN K and IDEN L both of whom are now
with IDEN B.
Have you told anyone in PBRUMEN that you are working with
WOFIRM? Answer: No. This question led to a discussion
of broadcasts from PBRUMEN which identified Subject as a
member of WOFIRM. These broadcasts occurred in October
1967 according to Subject and the man fingering him was
IDEN M. The latter was not officially in Subject's WOFIRM
group before his capture in PBRUMEN hence Subject does not
know why it was that he was specifically named. When it was
later suggested that this announcement would probably have
some effect on his family, Subject said he just didn't know
what effect it would have and has heard of none. He agreed
that it was quite ironic that one side of the family was working
with an intelligence service which was diametrically opposed
to the side to which another member of the same family was
affiliated and in fact because of his present IDEN B employment
he was actually in the business of hunting them down. Subject
agreed that it was indeed ironic but felt his convictions differed
from his brothers' and that was that.
Have you told anyone in IDEN N that you are working for WOFTRM?
Noted that some knew of his past affiliation hence the question
was qualified to mean his present affiliation. Later after
reactions were recorded, Subject noted that his wife is fully
witting of his WOFIRM employment as is IDEN O. He also
mentioned that a PBRUMEN type, IDEN P, whom he knows
from childhood has been kidding him constantly in Caracas
SECRET

--- Page 11 ---

14-00000
Page 5
IRD #72501
that he is still with WOFIRM until Subject finally told him in
an offhand way, "Sure I'm with WOFIRM," but he does not
know what effect this had on IDEN P or whether he has told
anyone of his suspicions of Subject's WOFIRM involvement.
He specifically denied that anyone other than these three
persons were knowledgeable.
Does anyone in IDEN B know you have this meeting with us today?
Answer: No.
Have you ever been asked to perform any task or mission against
the LNHARP? Answer: No.
Have you ever performed any task or mission on behalf of IDEN G?
Answer: No.
Has anyone told or instructed you on what to report to us? Answer:
No.
Have you had contact with IDEN C since 1967? Answer: No. Con-
tinued reactions to this question which necessitated a break-
down test to isolate the reason for his sensitivity to the topic.
He repeatedly denied that he had had any contact with IDEN C
since the IDEN Q told him not to but acknowledged a physical
revulsion to the mention of the man's name, and a long dis-
cussion ensued regarding the extent of Subject's involvement
with the man. Subject contended that the contact began quite
innocently in 1965 and was what Subject initially thought was a
deliberate provocation to see what Subject's reaction would be.
Subject immediately reported the contact to JMWAVE handlers
who guided him through continued contacts and instructions from
IDEN Q. Subject was instructed to sell IDEN C "silencers" (guns
with silencers attached--about six or seven to the best of his
recollection) in order to find out his true identity. Subject fur-
nished physical descriptions and license numbers to JMWAVE
and continued to report on contact with IDEN C. He offered
Subject $500 US which JMWAVE told Subject to keep since it was
merely a bonus given him for his work as an intermediary.
IDEN C continued to force contact with Subject and once came
to his home in shorts and made veiled threats which were
answered with counter threats of violence from Subject, and an
outright threat that Subject would kill IDEN C if he threatened

--- Page 12 ---

14-00000
Page 6
IRD #72501
SECRET
him again. In 1967 while with the IDEN R, Subject gave
IDEN C some "pencils' to keep him away which Subject did
not then report to WOFIRM but later did. He gave him about
129 altogether. Subject had promised IDEN C some 500 pounds
of C/4 explosives, M-2's, sub-machine guns, etc. but all was
intended to bait IDEN C for arrest and none was ever supplied
to him. Later Subject noted after reacting to a break-down
question that he had supplied him with pencils, silencers, and
also some grenades and pentolite. But these he claims should
be a matter of record with JMWAVE. The grenades were
typical military type and numbered about 24 to 48 altogether.
Again, however, Subject noted that he acted only as intermediary
between IDEN C and another individual who is now deceased in
PBRUMEN and did not physically handle any munitions shipments.
As noted above, continued sensitivity to the question of the amounts
or types of equipment furnished IDEN C is believed attributable
to uncertainty of Subject's part as to exactly what he did arrange
for shipment to IDEN C. As to the basic question about contact
with him since 1967 (or when he was told by IDEN Q to no longer
have contact with IDEN C), Subject insisted that he never re-
established contact of any kind but always checks at IDEN 8 to
determine if IDEN C is around.
Do you now have in your possession any arms, munitions or articles
of demolition which was once the property of the LNHARP? Only
those items which were discussed during a pre-test debriefing,
via., items brought to Caracas by him in a suitcase and consist-
ing of the following: 3 or 4 smoke grenades; 6 or 7 booby traps
(army type); 1 piece of delay fuse about 100 feet long; one primer
cord about 100 feet; 2 or 3 MK2 grenades; about 10 pencils (some
regular open market supply items and some of the "company"
variety); demolition pliers; knife; compass; metascope (infra-
viewer worth about $50 used). These items he said were taken
while with the IDEN R and with the knowledge of IDEN T although
IDEN T did not know exactly what he had taken. Subject was using
these items frequently in training courses and they were not to
the best of Subject's knowledge the property of LNHARP at that
time although it is possible that some of these items were at one
time LNHARP and possibly WOFIRM items. But he explained
further that these items are plentiful in the Miami area and can
SECRET
;

--- Page 13 ---

14-00000
Page 7
IRD #72501
SECRET
easily be obtained through gun dealers. During a later conver-
sation Subject noted that he has heard of many places where
munitions could be obtained very easily especially in New Jersey,
in California and in Miami, but he denied being personally
involved in any such dealings.
Have you ever stolen equipment of any type from WOFIRM? Answer:
Yes. About 5 gallons of gas once from a launch boat. Other than
this, nothing.
Do you know the identities of persons who stole arms and equipment
from LNHARP? Answer: No.
Break-down questions dealing with IDEN C:
Did you have contact with IDEN C from 1965 through 1967? Answer:
Yes.
During this time did he give you $500 for equipment which he wanted?
Answer: Yes.
Did you receive more than $500 from him? Answer: No.
Is it correct that you received threats from him? Answer: Yes.
Besides the pencils, silencers, grenades and pentolite did you give
him any other items?. Answer: No. (as noted continued sensi-
tivity which is unexplained except in the examiner's conclusion)
Did IDEN Q tell you to stop contacting him in October or November
1967? Answer: Yes.
Did you contact IDEN C after November 1967? Answer: No. (Slight
sensitivity but explained as relating to constant checking on his
whereabouts to avoid contact.)
Has your employer contacted him since November 1967? Answer:
No, not to his knowledge. On this question Subject noted that his
employer can easily obtain guns and supplies from European
SECRET
-
!

--- Page 14 ---

14-00000
Page 8
IRD #72501
SECRET.
sources cheaper than LNHARP. Also Subject noted that the
few guns (small calibre snub nose weapons) which he has
brought to Caracas with him from Miami are merely for the
personal use of some of his fellow employees in IDEN B, and
he breaks no laws in bringing them with him on the few trips
he has made between 1967 and the present. He feels he has
perhaps brought a total of 6 such small sidearms to Caracas
and also one sport rifle (AR-15) which he was asked to bring
back by IDEN U. The rifle was a gift to IDEN U. The weapon
was not automatic per Subject.
The only other items which Subject could think of which could
link WOFIRM with his organization are the silencers which he
reported on in Miami some months back which his organization
took from captured guerrillas and which were probably issued
to a group which went to PBRUMEN and were lost. Subject is
positive they were WOFIRM issue but purportedly the serial
numbers which he submitted could not be checked.
One additional item which was cleared up dealt with the pentolite
which had been reported seen in Caracas. Subject voluntarily
mentioned that he had seen such a supply under the bed of a friend.
The supply was attached to magnets which were to be used to
attach the charge to the underside of a ship in Caribbean waters
of IDEN V or IDEN W nationality. The charge was to discourage
further shipments between these latter IDENs and PBRUMEN.
Subject said he detached the magnets from the pentolite and
intended using it in training classes for students with his present
employer. The person who brought it to Caracas was IDEN X.
Subject does not know how he got it here, but knows that his
employer could facilitate such deliveries.
Distribution:
Orig - Ladner, Floyd & Gaynor
1 - Floyd
1 - CI/OA
Raymond J. Rygiel
1 - WH/COG
1 Field
1- File
OS/IRD/RJR:hjd
SECRET

--- Page 15 ---

14-00000
IRD #72501
SECRET
IDENTITY LIST
IDEN A
Luis Clemente POSADA Carriles
IDEN B
DIGEPOL
IDEN C
Lefty ROSENTHAL
IDEN D
Roberto
IDEN E
Raul
IDEN F
Maria
IDEN G
Castro's Intelligence service
IDEN H
Angelia POSADA
IDEN I
Bay of Pigs invasion
IDEN J
Venezuela Government
IDEN K
Hugo Alencar Tovar (aka: David)
IDEN L
Coco ELIAS
IDEN M
LAUSERICA "El Poeta"
IDEN N
Venezuela
IDEN O
Antonio COMELLAS
IDEN P
Aldo HERNANDEZ
IDEN Q
FBI
IDEN R
RECE Organization
IDEN S
Customs in United States
(Miami office Mr. Allen Jarbough)
SECRET

--- Page 16 ---

14-00000
IRD #72501
SECRET
IDEN T
IDENTITY LIST -- Continued
Jorge MAS (A leader in RECE Organisation)
Orasto FERNANDEZ
English
IDEN U
IDEN V
IDEN W
Japanese
IDEN X
Rafael TREMOL
SECRET

--- Page 17 ---

14-00000
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
TOTAL COPIES
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS - SEEN BY
GROUP 1
(When filled in)
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED
INDEX ☐ YES ☐ NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
X-REF TO FILE NO.
DISSEM BY.
ACTION
INFO
RID COPY
FILE.
FILE RID ☐ RET TO
BRANCH ☐
DESTROY ☐ SIG.
WA/C068, 11, 11/CH, 11/105, 11/163,
SECRET 10052207Z JUN 68 CITE CARACAS 9808
JMWAVE DIRECTOR
REFS A.
1.
B.
CARACAS 9758 (IN 31750)
JMWAVE 2600 (23543)
Aniclene
15 201
6 JUN 68 IN 25390
M
AMCLEVE-15 MET WITH LUGO AND RODRIGUEZ AT CIRASH-4'S
DIRECTION AND HIS REPORTS LED TO THEIR ARREST. UNFORTUNATELY
CIRASH-4 DID NOT COVER AMCLEVE-15 AND RODRIGUEZ IS CONVINCED
HE FINGERED THEM AND HAS SWORN KILL AMCLEVE-15 AT FIRST
OPPORTUNITY.
2. WHILE CARACAS UNDERSTANDS LNERGO WOULD NOT HAVE
GREAT INTEREST THIS CASE, IS IT EQUALLY TRUE THAT NEITHER LNERGO
NOR LNYUMA COULD ARREST RODRIGUEZ FOR LEAVING COUNTRY ILLEGALLY
AND TRAVELLING ON FALSE DOCUMENTS? WE ANXIOUS PROTECT AMCLEVE-15
AND WONDER IF JMWAVE CAN PREVAIL ON LNERGO OR LNYUMA TO ACCEPT
RETURN OF LUGO AND RODRIGUEZ FOLLOWED BY IMMEDIATE ARREST AND
INTERROGATION.
3. CIRASH-4 PLANS DEPORT THEM TO MIAMI ON 8 JUNE ON VIASA.
WILL ATTEMPT
ASCERTAIN FLIGHT.
SECRET
BT
SECRET

--- Page 18 ---

14-00000
MEMORANDUM FOR: CI/OA
SUBJECT: AMCLEVE-15 (201-300985)
6 June 1968
Forwarded herewith are two copies of a current PRQ I
on Subject.
John P. Gower
WH/3/Venezuela

--- Page 19 ---

14-00000
c/WHO/P
CLASSIFICATION
PROCESSING ACTION
DISPATCH
SECRET
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
MICROFILMED
JUN 7 1968
DOC. MICRO. SER.
TO
Chief of Station, CARACAS

Chief, WH Division

FROM
Chief of Station, JMWAVE

SUBJECT
AKULE PBRUMEN ANOT Operational
Letter Sent to RECE from Venezuela by Luis POSADA Carriles

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES
REFERENCE:
UFGA-30112, 23 May 1963

1. Attached hereto is AKOT Report DD-2279, dated
22 May 1968, and its attachment, which is a copy of a
letter sent to a Miami based Cuban exile organization,
Cuban Representation in Exile (RECE), by Luis POSADA
Carriles.

2. FYI: Luis POSADA Carriles was associated with
RECE in Miami from July 1966 to June 1967.

Gary L. Flustikoff
Gary L. FLUSTIKOFF

Attachment:
AKOT Rpt. DD-2279 w/att.

Distribution:
COS/CARACAS w/att.
C/WHD w/att.
WH/COG w/att.

CROSS REFERENCE TO
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
UFGA-30142

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

DATE
JUN 3 1968

29 May 1968

OS FILE NUMBER
201-300985

--- Page 20 ---

14-00000

FROM: SE (I-27)
AGENT: I-111
VIA: I-1
DD-2279
22 May 68
SUBJECT: Letter sent to RECE from Venezuela by Luis POSADA Carriles.
SOURCE: Augusto PINEDA (mat. unk.).
SUB-SOURCE: Aguedo LUGO (mat. unk.).

1. On 22 May 1968 I-111 obtained the following information
from Augusto PINEDA (mat. unk.).

2. On 19 May 1968 PINEDA was visited at home by Aguedo LUGO,
(mat. unk.) who had returned from a trip to Venezuela.

3. During their conversation, LUGO showed to PINEDA a photos-
tatic copy of a letter which had been sent from Venezuela by Luis
POSADA Carriles to Augusto VALDES Miranda, aka "Polo MIRANDA," a
RECE leader. LUGO had delivered this letter to VALDES Miranda by
hand.

4. At a moment when LUGO was not looking, PINEDA took the
photostatic copy of this letter, which is attached to this report.
In this letter POSADA mentioned the following matters:

a. The aid which had been given to the Association of
Bay of Pigs Veterans (Brigade 2506) by the Venezuelan Army and
the reasons why this aid was stopped.

b. Possibility of the Ministry of Defense and Ministry
of Interior of becoming involved in a plan to help Cuban exiles
fight against the Castro regime.

c. RECE should do everything possible so that RECE will
be the Cuban exile organization to receive this aid (see preceding
paragraph 4.b.), with POSADA offering to help RECE in this respect.

MICROFILMED
JUN 7 1968
DOC. MICRO. SER.

CS COPY
201-310985

--- Page 21 ---

14-00000

REPUBLICA DE VENEZUELA
MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES INTERIORES
DIRECCION GENERAL DE POLICIA

DIRECCION
No.
Fr Polo Miranda
FRI: 1722
aficinas del Rece -
1784 W. Flagler

--- Page 22 ---

14-00000
SECRET
Dear friend Polo,

This is the third letter that I am sending you. Since I am
sending this letter by messenger, I can explain more.

The Government here assisted a group of Cubans called the
Brigade. The Department of Defense (Army) provided this assistance
without consulting the Ministry of the Interior. When the Minister of
the Interior found out, he demanded an explanation from the military
men and they stopped the assistance.

There are strong possibilities that a plan will be developed for
Cuba, which will involve the Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of
the Interior and which will be assigned to a group of serious persons.

I believe it is highly important that I go to Miami urgently or that
some of you come here. This is urgent.
If you want me to go, send my fare to this address:
San Juan Bosco Avenue
Mayflower Bldg. Apt 24
Altamira, Caracas Venezuela

On the other hand, ERASTO FERNANDEZ is being summoned by Congress.
He is accused of being too severe with the Communists. Send a telegram
as soon as possible, expressing solidarity with his attitude, in the
name of the Cubans in RECE. If possible, mention me in the telegram.

The address is:
Police Headquarters
Las Colinas Av, las Bribas Bldg
Los Chaquararos, Caracas, Venezuela

-1-
SECRET

--- Page 23 ---

14-00000
SECRET
Some organization ( I do not know the name) has already sent
telegrams. ERASTO can be of great assistance to us.
When you send the telegram, do not mention me by name. Word it
like this Greetings from our fellow countryman, who is -
fighting beside us" or words to that effect.
My telephone is 321506
Regards to all your friends.
Juan Pasid

-2-
SECRET

--- Page 24 ---

14-00000
Estimado amigo Polo:
Es la tercera canta
que
en esta como que te la mando con la proped
to puedo explicas mas
a ciu
El gobiernes de aque de dio aguda
grupo
de cubanos con el nombre
de la Brygada, este lo rigs il Reports.
ments of Shefens (Ejercits) sin conter
con il sex ministerio del Interior,
"par esta causa al ministro del Inde-
iar pe enters y llamó a las militares
a Contar
.4.
para ellos.
debito la
адила
секо
Existen grandes posibilidades
de que se haga in plan pam
Cuba
en que intervengan a mysterio le
Refense
y al ministerio del Interior
"if que se le dea a un
percondes serias,
ни
graips
grüße de
cres grup es
de surma importancia que yo
до
лите

--- Page 25 ---

14-00000
vig a miami urgentement
que alguns de
aque. Este es cergente:
E quieren que yo vaya
dan el pasaje
me min
a la direction ecta
Arenda San Juan Bosco
Edificis MAY FLOWER APT. 24
ALTAMIRA CARACAS VENEZUELA.
deira en
Por otro lado, ERASTO FERNANDEZ
está siendo interpelado por il
Congreso acusado de mans
contra de los comemetas, hay que
a la mayor brevedad pacible, ben
telegrania, diciendo que de
solidarizan con su actitud, en
nombre de las lubanas del Rece, s..
vien ein
es
posible
вие
nombran a misal
telegramen - La direcciones".
Dirección General de Palicia-
ем
Gremida Las Colinas, Edifices Las Brisas,
Los Chaquaramos. Caraon, Verguele
Alguns arganizacion (no del munt)
33

--- Page 26 ---

14-00000
telegonias: Erants
hr mandate ya telegonias.
mos