14-00000
104-10516-10195

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASS RED MESSAGE

SECRET

FROM: MEXICO CITY
ACTION: C/SAS 5, HE AND LAS

INFO: DDP, ADDP, NY 7, CAN

IMMEDIATE INFO WAVE CITE MEXI 7372

RYBQT TYPIC KEYLAY VASLOUER

REF MEXI 7359

13 Dec 53 80239
ON CAPELING ED
786797ENTS_NC-2 CALL STATION
DIC DIFFICULT WITH MEXICAN CUSTOMS ON
DIR 82355
DAMAGE.
DIR 88858

1.  STATION OFFICER ACCOMPANIED VASLOLOR-2 AGAIN TO AIRPORT MORNING 13 DEC. AFTER ROUTINE DELAY ADMITTED TO AIR CARGO AREA. DOCTOR'S CAGE INSPECTED. THIS TIME TWO BOTTOM STUDS ONLY WERE MISSING. VASLOUCH-2 HAD INSPECTED DAY PREVIOUSLY AND FOUND THREE OF FOUR MISSING. NOTE THAT FIRST INSPECTION WAS IN ANOTHER BUILDING. CONSEQUENTLY BETWEEN TIME VASLOUCH-2 SAW BAG 12 DEC AND 1030 MORNING BOVECHZ HAD INSERTED ONE MISSING STUD. VASLOUCH-2 SAYS ABSOLUTELY CERTAIN BUT NOT MISTAKEN CONCERNING ABOVE.

2.  DOCTOR'S BAG AND OTHER FIVE PIECES REMOVED FROM CARGO AREA BUT WERE NOT PASSED BY BUILDING DOOR INSPECTOR WHO INSISTED ON OPENING ALL SIX PIECES. VASLOUCH-2 PROTESTED. LOCAL EMBASSY CONTACTED AND HE SPOKE ON TELEPHONE TO CUSTOMS OFFICIAL TO NO AVAIL. VASLOUCH-2 THEN SAW CHIEF AIRPORT CUSTOMS WHO REITERATED FACT THAT PARCELS WOULD BE INSPECTED.

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy No.

14-00000

CLASHED MESSAGE
SECRET

UNLESS LOCAL EMBASSY OBTAINED FREE ENTRY. STATED REASON WAS PACKAGE ARRIVED "DESTINATION MEXICO" RATHER THAN "IN TRANSIT". CUSTOMS CHIEF REFUSED REGARDLESS EVEN AFTER OFFER OF ERIC BY VASLOUCH-2.

3.  BY THIS TIME PRACTICALLY EVERY CARGO AND CUSTOMS OFFICIAL AIRPORT AWARE OF SITUATION AND OF ASSISTANCE BEING GIVEN VASLOUCH-2 BY STATION OFFICER WHOSE FACE WAS GROWING LESS AND LESS FINNISH.

4.  PARCELS WERE RETURNED AIR CARGO STORAGE AREA. ALL INCLUDING DOCTOR'S BAG WERE PARTLY CARED.

VASLOUCH-2 THEN TURNED OVER PAPERS TO LOCAL EMBASSY WHICH WILL OBTAIN FREE ENTRY AND KEEP ALL PARCELS MIXED. VASLOUCH-2 WILL TRAVEL MIXED SOON AFTER TO RECOVER THEM. CONSEQUENTLY STATION WILL NOT HAVE ACCESS TO DOCTOR'S BAG UNTIL THAT DATE.

5.  VASLOUCH-2 TALKED TO VALOUCH AFTERNOON 12 DEC. LATTER INSISTED SHE RETURN PERUSEN FLIGHT 12 DEC AS HER EMPLOYERS WERE PROTESTING TARDY ARRIVAL.

THIS COMBINED WITH VASLOUCH-2 FEAR THAT DOCTOR'S BAG HAS BEEN TAMPERED WITH MADE IT IMPOSSIBLE TO PERSUADE HER REMAIN LONGER. SHE PLANS DEPART 13 DEC IF FLIGHT LEAVES. IT NOW CONFIRMED AS DELAYED AND MAY NOT DEPART UNTIL 14 DEC.

6.  LAST FIRM STATION CONTACT WITH VASLOUCH-2 IS AT 1400 LOCAL 13 DECEMBER. CANNOT PROMISE ANY INSTRUCTIONS OR GUIDANCE FROM HIS WILL REACH HER VIA STATION AFTER THAT MR.

7.  REGRET THESE DEVELOPMENTS AND FACT THAT RS-45 WILL BE HELD (IF IT STILL IN DOCTOR'S CASES) FOR SEVERAL WEEKS. UNDER CIRCUMSTANCES SET FURTHER STATION INTERVENTION AND MORE PRECIPITATE ACTION CONSTITUTED UNACCEPTABLE SECURITY RISK.

SECRET
