14-00000

DIPECTOR
MEXICO CITY

FROM:
ACTION:
INFO:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ADDP, 2005/L, DODS 4, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CA/C 4, CI/OPS, CI/IC 2, FI, FI/D, FI/INT 2, TH LE 4, WE 4, WHY 00/1, AD/01 2, AD/NE, AD/RR 3, VR.

2100302
DIR INFO WAVE CITE MEXI 7489
INTEL TYPIC DESIGNET
REF DIR 70123

SUPDATA SOURCE DESIGNET FROM [ITALINA] AND [FRENCH] AMEASSADORE TO
CUBA, CUBAN MERCHANTS AND SUGAR EXPERTS

REPORT CLASS SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM HMM-8185 SUBJECT EFFORTS
OF CUBAN GOVERNMENT TO INITIATE COMMERCIAL BARTER WITH WEST
EUROPEAN CONTRIES DOI DEC 63 PADA MEXICO MEXICO CITY 20 DEC 63
APR 3 SOURCE WESTERN EUROPEAN BUSINESSMAN WHO TRAVELS FREQUENTLY
TO CUBA WHERE HIS COMPANY MAINTAINS COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.

NO DISSEMINATION OF THE ATTACHED PORTION OF

MADE OUT
RELEASE BY THE ACTION UNIT.

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

TDCS
PRECEDENCE: ROUTINE
PRIORITY
LEANDAL
MATIS

TDCS
DEC 21 0147Z 63 IN 85247
FILED 21/00352

14732480

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

THIS MATERIAL CONTAINS INFORMATION AFFECTING THE NATIONAL DEFENSE OF THE UNITED STATES WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE ESPIONAGE LAWS, TITLE 18, U.S.C., SECTIONS 793 AND 794, THE TRANSMISSION OR REVELATION OF WHICH IN ANY MANNER TO AN UNAUTHORIZED PERSON IS PROHIBITED BY LAW.

COUNTRY
SUBJECT

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

REPORT NO. 85247
DATE DISTR
PRECEDENCE
DATE OF INFO.
PLACE &
DATE ACQ.
APPRAISAL
SOURCE
REFERENCES
FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT (3 TENTATIVE.

1. THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT HAS RENEWED NEGOTIATIONS FOR THE
PAYMENT OF DEBTS RESULTING FROM EXPROPRIATIONS MADE FROM CERTAIN
WESTERN EUROPEAN BUSINESS INTERESTS. THE CUBAN MINISTRY OF FOREIGN
TRADE IS TRYING TO INTEREST WEST GERMANY, ITALY AND FRANCE IN
COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES SO THAT A FAVORABLE ATMOSPHERE WILL PREVAIL
AT THE TIME OF THE COMPLETION OF THE SUGAR CROP HARVEST IN MARCH
1964, WHEN THE COMMODITY IS NORMALLY MARKETED. NEGOTIATIONS FOR
REPARATIONS ARE TAKING FORM IN CUBAN OFFERS TO SELL TOBACCO AT
DISCOUNT PRICES.

IN ORDER OF PRIORITY, THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT IS TRYING TO OBTAIN

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

FERTILIZER, TRANSPORTATION FACILITIES, AND CHEMICAL PRODUCTS IN
EXCHANGE FOR SUGAR ON A STRAIGHT BARTER DEAL. THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT
EXPECTS A SUGAR CROP IN 1964 WHICH, IF SOLD AT THE AVERAGE
WORLD PRICE OF 8 CENT A POUND (US CURRENCY), SHOULD PRODUCE
ABOUT 83 MILLION DOLLARS (US) IN CREDITS.

3. FIELD COMMENT. SOURCE SAID THAT EXAMINATION OF THE CROP
CONFIRMS THAT IT IS ONE OF THE BEST CUBA HAS HAD IN YEARS.

4. FIELD DISSEM
STATE ECON CINCSO.
