```markdown
14-00000

104-10162-10241 (2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992)

Photograph of Ivan Gavrilovich ALFERYEV (201-236701)

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION: MARKED FOR INDEXING, NO INDEXING REQUIRED, ONLY QUALIFIED DESK CAN JUDGE INDEXING

INFO: Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

FROM: Chief of Station, Buenos Aires

SUBJECT: RYBAT/REDTOP/DIOGENESIS/AEBOOR - Surveillance Reports

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES: Reference: HABA-20512, dated 25 April 1969

1.  Reference dispatch described our efforts against AEBOOR and stated that the next phase would consist of a 24-hour-a-day surveillance of Subject for a period of about two weeks. The coverage was initiated at 0600 hours on 19 May and terminated at 1535 hours on 26 May, the day of AEBOOR's departure for home leave.

2.  The overall results of the surveillance effort were interesting and provided us with a great deal of basic data which should prove valuable in future AEBOOR operational planning. Although the period covered must be viewed as somewhat atypical since it covered a time of preparation for home leave, the basic pattern could not have varied greatly from the norm. There was definite evasive action designed to shake surveillance taken by AEBOOR on several occasions; there were repeat visits to several establishments which could easily serve as letter drops or contact points; and there was an interesting contact on 21 May (reported in BUENOS AIRES 3009) with an individual we failed to identify positively.

3.  Although the above makes it appear that we are approaching the AEBOOR operation strictly from the CI/CE angle, this is not the case. We are attempting to gather adequate information to give us a clear insight into AEBOOR's activities in order to help us attempt to introduce an access agent into this operation, or to expand direct development of Subject by Station officers.

4.  Forwarded under separate cover for Headquarters study are copies of the surveillance reports along with a copy of the AELANYARD transcript for 21 May.

Attachment: U/B/C as stated

Distribution:

*   C/SBD, w/attach u/s/o
*   C/WHD, w/o attach

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: HABA-20057

DATE: 16 June 1969

FILE NUMBER: 201-236701

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

Chief of Station, Buenos Aires

FROM: Chief, SB via Chief, WH Division

SUBJECT: REDTOP/AEXICK/AEBOOR - Operational Possibilities against AEBOOR

ACTION FOR WH

Reference: HCSW 7666, 11 February 1969

1.  With the departure of AEBOOR and his wife on home leave, we would like to offer a few comments about him for possible future action by the Station when he returns. The impetus for these thoughts was a recent examination of the files of all those Soviets on the priority target list to determine if, perhaps, one of them offers more of a potential for intensive development than another. The purpose of this review was not to discard the agreed-upon target list, since this list is the rationale behind the entire concept of selective targetting; but rather, to attempt a narrowing of the Station's focus on the one particular Soviet who appears to be the best selection for operational development among the priority group. We have looked at such factors as susceptibilities (known or potential), contacts, accessibility, etc. and, for reasons discussed below, feel that AEBOOR may be the best selection for a determined Station effort aimed at his eventual recruitment. Thus, the Station's focus on the other priority Soviets would continue at its present level but at the same time, AEBOOR would be placed "under the microscope" as the object of a more intensive Station effort aimed at gaining multiple access to him.

2.  With the imminent departure of BIBANDIT/12 from Buenos Aires and the resulting elimination of our one good contact with ABVULTURE, the choice of AEBOOR became easier to make. His selection, however, was based on several considerations which, from our vantage point, seem to offer the best potential for Station action when he returns to the country.

3.  Accessibility: AEBOOR is one of the very few Soviets with whom direct Staffer contact has been made. The social evening spent with him and his wife in January showed excellent premise because it appeared that foundations for rapport and further contact had been laid. We note, however, that there has been no mention of further meetings since the initial one, four and one-half months ago. Due to the elapsed time, we assume that Subject and his wife are not planning to reciprocate the invitations; on the other hand, enough time will have passed since the initial contact for the Station to take the initiative again and instigate a second meeting soon after Subject returns from home leave. Since there are no other access agents now in touch with Subject, the potential for assessment of our target personality by direct Staffer contact becomes crucial in the selective targetting procedure. Through the advantages of direct assessment, we should be able to make a good judgment concerning the susceptibilities (or lack thereof) of AEBOOR and accordingly, determine the value in pursuing him as a priority target.

4.  The impressions of AEBOOR and his wife from the one meeting thus far seem to offer some possible avenues of approach which the Station may wish to consider in their planning. The wife, in particular, was described as being more relaxed than AEBOOR and through her professed interest in theatre, music, and ballet, it might be possible for Nina T. MARGANDE to exploit this interest and invite her to selected cultural events. If AEBOOR does not share his wife's proclivities for the "arts", then she might appreciate the presence of a female companion who shares her interests. AEBOOR's wife also claimed to like both American songs and dancing. This, too, might open the door to some form of imaginative approach built around a future invitation whereby the incipient social relationship of 9 January would be further developed in the depth needed for a thorough assessment of the target. Cultivation of the wife appears to be particularly appropriate because of the apparent conflicts and tensions between her and her husband. The accounts of this relationship from their previous tour in Mexico and also the current transcripts from AELANYARD paint a picture of an irascible and foul-mouthed husband constantly doing battle with a domineering wife. It seems likely that the impression of "sweetness and light" which they generated during their evening with the Station case officers was atypical and manufactured for the benefit of their hosts. This, of course, is natural with most couples who choose not to air their personal differences in public, but from our point of view, this lack of harmony between AEBOOR and his wife offers distinct possibilities for the Station to contact the wife independently and offer her welcome diversions from the regimented and turbulent life with her husband. (We call your attention to the reference since it may provide some useful points in devising an approach to AEBOOR's wife). Their present home leave in the USSR would seem to offer a ready-made situation for renewed contact when they return since natural curiosity about their activities and time spent at home could be sufficient grounds for an invitation either to both or singly to spend an evening together. We offer those thoughts only because they appear to us as good opportunities not only to maintain Staffer contact with a target of priority interest, but to also develop this contact further to the degree of intimacy needed for a recognition and ultimate exploitation of his susceptibilities.

5.  Since there are no access agents now in touch with AEBOOR, we suggest, as a supplement to the direct Staffer contact and in order to obtain additional assessments of Subject from other angles, the Station consider "running" a controlled asset into AEBOOR under suitably contrived circumstances. In other words, we would create a relationship where none previously existed. By this device, we are not suggesting a double agent operation in which our agent offers himself for recruitment; on the contrary, the rationale is simply to move a controlled asset into the path of the target and attempt to establish a contact through a common bond of social or business interests. If we agree that AEBOOR can be brought under a more intensive scrutiny than the other Soviets, then this ploy would be a logical step in his development as a recruitment target if additional access to him is non-existent.

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: NABW 11473

OFFICE: B & C BUT

DATE: 6 June 1969

OFFICE SYMBOL: SB/X/WIT

DATE: 10 JUN 1969

OFFICE SYMBOL: C/MI/4

DATE: 10 JUN 1969

RELEASING OFFICER'S SIGNATURE: Philip Eiferman

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: ABW 11473

d. AVDEPTH: The ability to monitor AEBOOR through this technical operation was a key factor in deciding to bring him under closer focus. It should be able to provide the necessary depth to any human assessment of the target and it gives us the singular opportunity to "observe" AEBOOR when he is relaxed at home and not exhibiting the official mannerisms and personality which he must display in public and around his other Soviet colleagues. If we are able to expand the burgeoning Staffer contact with Subject as well as place access agents in touch with him, then his reactions to these contacts can be monitored and our moves against him tailored accordingly.

3.  As part of the total effort to build up a large amount of information on the selected target, we are including as an attachment, a copy of the new Personality Characteristic Questionnaire (PCQ) with instructions for its use. By employing it in conjunction with your direct assessment of AEBOOR, we should be able to slowly build up enough information on him so that the indirect psychological assessment techniques can also be applied. The PCQ is a new form and less time-consuming than others but we believe it should be an integral part of the entire assessment process focused on a target Soviet and that it can be an invaluable aid in attempting to evaluate the varied impressions of the target which have been obtained from multiple access to him. An initial review of the PCQ may give the impression that many of the questions are irrelevant and have no bearing on the determination of a person's susceptibility to manipulation. The questionnaire should not be perused piecemeal, however, but taken in its entirety since each portion will be interpreted and weighted by the indirect psychological assessment techniques until a very complete impression of the total personality emerges. We encourage the Station to utilize the PCQ and when sufficiently complete, forward it to Headquarters for evaluation.

4.  Once again, we wish to emphasize that Headquarters is in a position to offer guidance and support to your efforts, but the direction of the case rests with the Station. The case officer involved is in the best spot to judge the progress of the case and make decisions accordingly. For this reason, we encourage a continuous and candid dialogue, concerning the various aspects of your operations against the selected Soviet targets in order to insure professional development of each case. If our choice of AEBOOR is at variance with your on-the-spot assessment of the priority Soviets, then we would appreciate your appraisal of him as well as any suggestions about a more logical candidate for closer focus.

Attachment: As stated H/W

Distribution: 3-COS

FORM 1401 (40) USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CONTINUED

PAGE NO. 2 of 2

201-236701

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

TOTAL COPIES: 7

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS - SEEN BY:

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

ADVANCE COPY: ☐ YES ☐ NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO:

X-REF TO FILE NO:

ACTION:

INFO:

FILE, VA:

BRANCH: ☐ DESTROY ☐ SIG.

SECRET 272000Z MAY 69 CITE BUENOS AIRES/3032

DIRECTOR

REDTOP BIOGENESIS

(2) MAY 69 IN 67772 (BUEN)

BIOGENESIS TRAVEL CONTROLS REPORT 26 MAY DEPARTURE FOR USSR OF IVAN CAVRILOVICH ALFERYEV (201-236701) AND WIFE ROSA VIA AEROLINEAS ARGENTINAS 140 TO ROME. LYUDMILA IVANOVNA MAKAROCHKINA, WIFE OF 201-802696, ALSO LEFT SAME FLIGHT.

PER BILOCULAR ALFERYEVS WILL TRAVEL ROME TO MOSCOW BY TRAIN. BIBAFFLE AND OTHER SOURCES INDICATE WILL RETURN BUENOS AIRES AFTER HOME LEAVE.

HAVE NO INFO ON MAKAROCHKINA'S ONWARD TRAVEL FROM ROME NOR ON HER HUSBAND'S PLANS TO JOIN HER. DO NOT KNOW WHETHER DEPARTURE PCS OR HOME LEAVE.

FILE 201-236701 AND 201-802696.

SECRET

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000

TOTAL COPIES:

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS - SEEN BY:

UNIT: WH/4/A

DATE: 27 MAY 1969

PATRICIA GRAHAM: DG

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

☐ INDEX ☐ NO INDEX ☐ RETURN TO BRANCH ☐ FILE RID

FILE IN CS FILE NO: 06410

SECRET 281720 Z MAY 69 CITE DIRECTOR

BUENOS AIRES INFO PARIS

REDCOAT BIOGENESIS

REF: BUENOS AIRES 3009 (IN 65500)

1.  NO TRACKS.

FILE: 201-236701

END OF MESSAGE

Comment: Requested traces Phillipe De Seze, French citizen, who is visiting Argentina and is in contact with Ivan Gavrilovich ALFERYEV, known KGB.

WILLIAM V. BROE / C/WHD

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

--- Page 8 ---

14-00000

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

TOTAL COPIES: 7

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS - SEEN BY:

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

ADVANCE COPY: ☐ ISSUED ☐ SLOTTED

INDEX: ☐ YES ☐ NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO:

X-REF TO FILE NO:

ACTION:

INFO:

FILE NO: ☐ RET. TO BRANCH ☐ DESTROY ☐ SIG.

SECRET 231720Z MAY 69 CITE BUENOS AIRES 3009

DIRECTOR INFO PARIS

RYBAT REDTOP BIOGENESIS

1.  REQUEST TRACES INCLUDING LIAISON FRENCH CITIZEN PHILLIPE DE SEZE, DPOB 22 SEPTEMBER 1920, BORDEAUS, PASSPORT 155114. DIRECTOR OF EXPORTACION FRANCAIS VISITING ARGENTINA.

2.  BIBAFFLE TEAM SURVEILLING IVAN GAVRILOVICH ALFERYEV, SECOND SECRETARY AND KNOWN KGB, DURING WEEK PRIOR ALFERYEV HOME LEAVE DEPARTURE. ON 21 MAY SPENT SEVERAL HOURS WITH LIMPING MAN WHO OBVIOUSLY NOT ARGENTINE. TWO MET IN EMBASSY, HAD COFFEE IN LOCAL CAFE, VISITED ALFERYEV APARTMENT THEN RETURNED EMBASSY. CHECK OF HOTEL IN WHICH APPEARED MOST LIKELY VISITOR STAYING REVEALED DE SEZE ONLY GUEST WITH LIMP. HAS STAYED HOTEL VARIOUS TIMES INCLUDING PERIOD 3 TO 18 MAY. CURRENT CHECK IN DATE WAS 21 MAY.

3.  NO STATION TRACES.

4.  INDEX DE SEZE. FILE: 881-836701.

SECRET

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000

Source: BUENOS AIRES

Date(s) of Intercept: 16/17 April 69

HABA-20528

Rec'd at Prod. Unit: 16 May 69

Reel No.: 5

Processing Completed: 3 June 69

Side(s): 1

Transcriber/Checker: N.V.M.

Readability: Very poor

Translator/Editor: L.T.

Typist: L.T.

Interesting Tape

deteriorating (apparently) relationship between A & wife. C serves again as mediator.

--- Page 10 ---

14-00000

BUENOS AIRES - Reel 5

A. Ivan (ALFERYEV)

B. Rosa (ALFERYEV)

C. Anatoliy Ilich (VASILYEV)

((Readability is very poor. Music is playing very loudly.))

A., B., and C. continue their conversation. ((Reel 4))

They talk about clothing and dinner jackets. C. says he does not own a dinner jacket, and adds, "But according to regulations, I... By official government regulations, a counselor is provided/allowed ((to have a dinner jacket)). I'll tell you, there are some people who think I don't know this. They keep quiet about it... but I'm embarrassed to say..." B. comments, "You should have one made, and that's all." C. says that when he needed a dinner jacket, he talked to the Ambassador about it. He adds, "Concerning the dinner jacket, he ((the Ambassador)) said, 'Drive over; you have... well, get it from ALFERYEV.' That's an Ambassador!" ((Short portion unreadable.)) B. remarks, "Anatoliy Ilich, he ((probably the Ambassador)) is a strange man."

They continue talking about dinner jackets. A. says that some diplomats at other embassies also do not have dinner jackets. He says to C., "Why don't you ask the French Ambassador if he has a tail coat..." C. comments, "What a comparison!" A. continues, "By the way, they rent ((tail coats))... Ask the French counsel if he owns a dinner jacket..." C. states, "And you go ahead and ask how much they pay an ambassador == $500, $1,000. I know they get (XG) ((a high salary))." ((Portion unreadable; all talk at once.)) A. says, "He doesn't have one; they rent ((evening clothes.))" C. disagrees, "No, Ivan; you're wrong. That doesn't bother me." A. says, "I realize that." C. explains, "This is a matter of representation ((diplomacy)). If a man has such a difficult, such a difficult... but I know that (XG)." ((Portion unreadable; all talk simultaneously.))

A. insists, "Everybody rents ((evening clothes)); everybody rents." C. explains, "But I'm supposed to have it ((a dinner jacket)) according to the regulations. It's written, it's written. Why should I rent it. If you wish, I'll let you read it ((the regulation))."

--- Page 11 ---

14-00000

A. and C. try to convince each other on the pro and con of renting a dinner jacket.

C. expresses his indignation about the situation and tells of his conversation with the Ambassador about a dinner jacket when they were due to attend a function: "I told him... if I find a dinner jacket... Yo, you will go ((alone)). You have one. But he asked me, 'But why don't you have one?' I said, 'Yuriy Ivanovich, you yourself know why I don't have one.' He shut up..." Later, B. agrees, "You should have your own ((dinner jacket))."

C. continues to be resentful, and says, "But the man ((unclear who, possibly the Ambassador)) is jealous, so that, I don't know... that some sort of (krivoy?) counselor will have a dinner jacket. I... ((B. laughs)) I spit on you..." ((probably referring to a supposed critic)). C. adds what he frequently says that "if a dinner jacket is required, I will not go."

The three have a drink. ((short pause)) They discuss music, and talk about an orchestra which they heard on TV. They comment on tickets which they have received for various concerts. ((Readability is very poor; the TV covers their conversation.)) They talk about theatrical artists, the Bolshoi Theatre, and an orchestra. Mention is made of DUNAYEVSKIY, the composer, and various records. ((Loud music covers their conversation.)) They talk about OYSAKH and OSTROPOVICH. B. flirts a bit with A. and C. All laugh frequently.

Farther, B. changes the subject and speaks irritably about her work. She asks A., "Was my work at the Embassy normal, was it normal?" A. states, "It was normal." B. retorts, "Oh... it was normal. Yes, ((unsensationally)) it was normal. I did not (XG) normally when I was sitting in ("Pavlovich's?) ((not otherwise identified)) office. (XG). And I'll tell anyone you please that it ((the work)) was not normal." A.'s brief comment is unreadable.

B. insists angrily, "I'll say it myself. And I won't ask (XG). I know whom to tell. I'll definitely say it." A. calls her "a fool!" B. rebuts him, "The word 'fool' is always at the tip of your tongue; 'fool,' 'fool.' All evening, all evening." A. states, "That's the first time I said it." B. rants, "So, you said it for the first time! Really? You only said it once?"

--- Page 12 ---

14-00000

C. attempts to soothe B., "Well, Ivan didn't want to say anything bad. I'm sure of that... It isn't that... It concerns some sort of... ((All talk at once - unreadable)) A. states, "This is none of your business (XG) and I'm not planning to." B. shouts, "Right, so don't put/seat me where you shouldn't -- in the bathroom!" ((figuratively speaking)). C. interrupts, "Rosa, Rosochka, what are you saying!" B. yells, "Well..." C. continues, "Well, Rosa... Rosa, sometimes..." B. retorts sarcastically, "It's none of my business -- that's the main thing!" C. says, "Ivan is sometimes incorrect/unjust in his attitude toward you ((plural)) but you ((the informal "ty")) understand how difficult it becomes for married (XG) ((possibly meaning "officials")), Rosa. Rosochka, you shouldn't... you should work some more/longer..." A. repeats to B., "It's none of your business." C. adds, "You shouldn't be that way... Later everything will be better." A. remarks, "She's not satisfied..." C. continues, "Because we/you have to maneuver somehow. Even if we were wrong, even if we were 100% wrong, you still have to wait. For you to see that we are wrong (1-20). Why is he wrong? Perhaps we are wrong, but there was some sort of precondition/reason for it. It's impossible for us to be wrong. According to his/our character, persuasion, (XG)... desire... Do you understand what happens, Rozochka?" A. states, "Do you understand, when they announce ((unknown what)) to them, they have not deserved that. It's always that way... In order to cast aspersions on someone, it is absolutely necessary (2-30)..."

B. protests, "((Even)) if (an accusation?) is unjust? All right! ((But if)) something is well done... ((express)) some gratitude, if you please..." C. comments, "Rozochka, don't you see, then the whole thing is that we... then (XG)." B. retorts, "At least he could have said that they were (?accusing?) me unjustly. At least he could have said..." C. says, "Rosa! But here (XG), do you understand, (XG) no such attention is given. For him here, you understand, (XG). He is not alone here. A number of people are there, this one and that one ((colloquial: the fifth and the tenth)). And then perhaps Romonna... especially a wife. That becomes most sensitive/painful. She is sort of the most sincere/frank person. But I wouldn't do it that way. There you are. And she will be correct. However, she did not see the one and the other person

--- Page 13 ---

14-00000

((the fifth and the tenth person))... and immediately did not (XG)... It's good at times. My Lord, Galka does that. At times I feel hurt ((but)) I won't say (XG). I won't begin saying it. Sometimes I feel so hurt that (XG)." B. tells C., "Anatoliy Ilich, when everything will be clean, when everything will be put in order, then I/you/we can talk about gratitude. But now? ... There's chaos all around! And you talk about gratitude... ((She sounds incensed)) Everywhere there is (XG)." C. tries to convince her, "Rosa! You shouldn't talk now. Do you understand? It has to be done gradually. After all, there is some sort of restraint/forbearance; there's a line... you have to (XG). Rosa! How much more/longer will we (XG). After all, we haven't been together merely for one day. Take Ivan. (XG) there are a minimum of 6 to 7 of us men in the Bureau. What I'm saying is that we must respect each other. We think, we discuss. We might make mistakes in something. But, nevertheless, 7 of us men won't be too mistaken as would be someone at (XG). And then, a woman will sometimes not see/understand, Rozochka. (XG). Rosa, you shouldn't insult/hurt us that much. We have nerves and they (XG)." A.'s comment is unreadable. B. tells her husband, "Sit, sit, all right!" C. continues trying to convince B. that she shouldn't insult her husband.

A bit further, B. tells C. irritably, "He piles everything on me. You're blaming me, right?" C. continues telling B. to treat her husband better, and says, "I love my Galka very much, and I see that Ivan loves ((you)). I am firmly convinced of that." B. laughs sarcastically. C. adds, "(XG) that means to indulge ((your husband)). Rosa, how can you do that?" C. continues, "What do you want to do -- do you want to see/think of your husband as a scoundrel?" B. replies, "(XG) in ((his)) attitude toward his wife." C. adds, "Or that I should be a scoundrel? I won't be one. If Galka would throw me out, I wouldn't become a scoundrel any way. I spit on that. No matter what anybody says about me, I won't become a scoundrel any way. And I won't be led by the nose by any Nina MEDVEDEVA." ((Apparently, C. believes that MEDVEDEVA bosses her husband.)); B. remarks, "I'm talking about (This attitude?) toward his wife." A. states, "And I'm saying that they are scoundrels." B. continues, "... personal attitude..."

--- Page 14 ---

14-00000

C. states decisively, "They ((the MEDVEDEVs)) are scoundrels... Ivan, you shouldn't receive ((or, have anything to do with)) them. On the contrary, you should stay further away from them someplace, as far away as possible." C. continues lecturing B. about changing her attitude toward her husband.

Further, C. tells B. about an incident which occurred where the MEDVEDEVs were involved, saying that the MEDVEDEVs had been given ingredients to make meat pastries (pirozhki), and that they had not made the meat pastries but had said that the ingredients had spoiled. He asks B., "How could those people do that? What happened to the ingredients? Rosa! You have to answer! Please answer!" B. asks, "I should answer?! Let them answer!" C. says, "Aha... But they don't want to ((answer))." B. asks, "Why should I answer?" C. insists, "Go ahead... answer! What happened to them. How did they..." B. says, "I defend them!" C. continues, "What happened to the ingredients? Please answer. They... someone else, if you please... Why? Did they take them ((drive them)) someplace? They volunteered to make them. What happened ((to the ingredients)). How did they spoil? When did they spoil? What spoiled? And where did they drive to? Answer that question. And (automatically?) they twisted everything around. Do you know what I'm leading up to? And what happened later?" A.'s comment is unreadable. B. states categorically, "Ivan will twist anything around..." C.'s comment unreadable. B. repeats, "... he'll twist anything..." C. asks, "And then what about (XG)?" A. says, "This is the very best example..." B. asks, "What did you say...?!" A. says something unreadable. B. asks, "Why do you ascribe things to me that I did not say? By the way, your manner has long since been noticed... has long since been noticed..." C. tries to interrupt her, but she continues, "... you can blame a person for something he did not say, and you will keep on insisting that he said that you (XG) me." A.'s remark is unreadable. B. says, "... a good relationship. He ((MEDVEDEV)) has a very fine relationship/attitude toward his wife." Farther, C. asks, "What kind of relationship is that? If I did such a thing, Galka would give me such a lecture... if I permitted such a thing, she would not live with me. She would never permit me to do such a thing -- never would she look ((at me)) if I

--- Page 15 ---

14-00000

would be able to do anything so vile." Referring to B.'s statement about the good relationship between the MEDVEDEVs, C. says, "How can you say that, how can you give such an example? ((He mimics B. sarcastically)) 'They have such ((a good relationship)); everything is done by them in a friendly manner.'" ((C. says maliciously)) Roza, I despise them..." He continues expressing his indignation. He adds, "They have a foursome; the first are the MEDVEDEVs and then, the TEREKHOVs ((the four are good friends))." C. says that "yesterday I spoke with Galya BULDINOVA ((probably about the MEDVEDEVs and the foul up on the meat pastries))."

The three of them then calm down, converse quietly, and have a drink. The music covers a part of their conversation. They listen to the music and make intermittent comments.

Later, A. begins picking on B. and says to C., "She doesn't think. She has been in a huff all evening. Instead of thinking, she..." C. interrupts, "Vanya, don't talk that way. ((He changes the topic)) Where do you want to go ((take a trip, or drive))? Well, Rosochka..." B. yells, "Well, when I get rid of you…..! May I state my conclusion/decision, or not? Will that minute ever arrive, or not?" C. tries to calm her, "Rosochka..." B. continues yelling, "It's absolutely impossible..." C. and B. talk simultaneously - unreadable. B. then says, "Anatoliy Ilich, that's correct. After you've talked with him, you leave. But for me this goes on with him eternally, from morning to evening, and during the night. It's absolutely frightening!" C. again tries to calm her down. B. goes on, "Why should I wait to say what I want to. I say what I please." C. interrupts, "Rosa, Rosochka, Rosa! But all of this is..." B. adds, "He has a malicious soul..." C. disagrees, "Nothing of the sort; nothing of the sort! He touched upon ((the subject)); he asked..." B. snaps back, "He touched upon it... so now let him listen to what I'm going to say since he touched upon it. If you object to him ((unclear)), then shut up..." C. again tries, "Rosa, may I ask one question?" B. says, "You may..." C. begins, "Please tell me..." B. starts up again, "He poisons everything... because even if he says one thing, he poisons everything." C. states, "Oh no... He (XG).

--- Page 16 ---

14-00000

I'll tell ((you)) that the nature of women is to exaggerate at times. And I would say not sometimes, but very often, very often. And why do you... don't you think that you (XG), that he is acting badly toward you? Let him make mistakes..."

C. continues soothing and lecturing B, and tries to convince her that her husband isn't so bad. A. remains silent.

C. changes the subject and suggests that Ivan finish his drink. He talks about food and snacks. C. and A. drink up and leave the room. The radio is on. B. is walking around the room, apparently cleaning up. A bit later, she turns off the radio.

End of Recording

((Transcribers note: Contrary to the Log listing, there is no further recorded conversation, possibly due to faulty recording.))

--- Page 17 ---

14-00000

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

INFO: Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

FROM: Chief of Station, Buenos Aires

SUBJECT: REDTOP/AKTARGET - Telephone Tap Operations Against 201-025486

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

1.  As part of our continuing effort to effectively "zero in" on selected FISTEALER targets, we requested BIOGENESIS to set up telephone taps on phones located in the apartments of AEBOOR and 201-025486. BIOGENESIS complied, and the tap on AEBOOR's line became effective on 18 April. Coverage of 201-025486's line went into effect on 22 April.

2.  Although we do not expect this coverage to provide us with dramatic results or some sort of "break through", we hope that it will contribute significantly to our overall coverage of these two targets.

3.  Once these operations have been in existence for a reasonable period of time, we will advise Headquarters of the results.

DISTRIBUTION:

*   COS

--- Page 18 ---

14-00000

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET/RYBAT

INFO: Chief, WHD

FROM: Chief of Station, Buenos Aires

SUBJECT: RYBAT REDTOP BIOGENESIS AEBOOR

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES: Reference: BUENOS AIRES-2749 dated 11 April 1969

1.  Even though we have maintained AELANYARD for a considerable length of time, we have not been able to establish a pattern of activity for AEBOOR. The cause of this lack is quite simple: AELANYARD has been maintained more or less on a working hour schedule, i.e., from roughly 0800 to 2200 hours with occasional additional night monitoring. Realizing this, we decided to carry out a two-week operation whereby we used different equipment. We will cease this phase of the operation since we now have, we believe, sufficient coverage to establish the pattern of activity of AE