14-00000

104-10178-10002

(2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992)
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: POSADA, LUIS CLEMENTE
201-300985
VOL. I

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY: THIRD AGENCY DOCUMENTS.

RECEIVED RETURNED REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)
8/16/78 KSCARLET/3
DATE DATE SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

STATE DEPARTMENT DOCUMENTS

DATE: 25 AUGUST 1977
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: GOV CHARGES "CUBANA AIRLINER: DEFENDANTS WITH MILITARY CRIMES
FROM AMEMBASSY CARACAS (CARACAS 6438)

FROM AMEMBASSY CARACAS
MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION
DATE: 9 MARCH 1977
SUBJECT: ORLANDO BOSCH AND THE LETELIER ASSASSINATION
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL/NOFORN

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

FBI DOCUMENT
CABLE FROM DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 8 JUNE 1977
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
SUBJECT: SALVADOR ALDEREGUIA; ESPIONAGE - CUBA - PANAMA
FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000

FBI Document
Date: 15 February 1977
Classification: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: COORDINATION OF UNITED REVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATIONS (CORU)
NEUTRALITY MATTERS - CUBA (ANTI-CASTRO).
No File Number

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000

State Department Cable
Date: 22 January 1977
Classification: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: CHARGE THAT POSADA IMPLICATED IN CIA PLOT TO KILL CASTRO PUBLISHED
CARACAS 0680

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000

SECRET

DO DOCUMENT EXTRACT

THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CONCERNING THE SUBJECT OF THIS 201
DOSSIER HAS BEEN EXTRACTED FROM ANOTHER OFFICIAL DO FILE.
PERSONS PERFORMING NAME TRACES ARE CAUTIONED THAT THE DOCU-
MENT FROM WHICH THIS EXTRACT WAS PREPARED CONTAINS ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE SUBJECT AND SHOULD BE REQUESTED
FROM IP/FILES.

POSADA CARRILES, LUIS
201-0300985 075-008-015
SEX M CARA-31189
20 OCT 76 HVC-07522
CIT. VENE
RES VENE. NATIVE BORN CUBAN, GOVM HOLDS SUBJ
DIRECTLY RESPONSIBLE FOR 6 OCT 76 BOMBING OF A
CUBANA AIRLINER. WILL REQUEST VENE GOVT REVOKE
HIS VENE CITIZENSHIP AND TURN HIM OVER TO THEM
FOR PROSECUTION. CUBAN GOVM INTENDS TO LIQUI-
DATE SUBJ EITHER WITH OR WITHOUT DUE PROCESS OF LAW

DATE 01 NOV 76
09446975
SECRET
201-300985
E2 IMPDET CL BY 054979

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000

SECRET

To: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION//INTELLIGENCE DIVISION,
U.S. ARMY INTELLIGENCE AGENCY FORT MEADE, MARYLAND//ATTN: NIIA-SO.Y
CIOL-6445-76

SECRET--WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND
METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS--NOT
RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS--DISSEMINATION
AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATOR.Y

SUBJECT: TERRORIST PLOTTING BY CUBAN EXILES: INFORMATION RELATING
TO ACTIVITIES OF U.S. ARMY MAJOR JUAN ARMAND MONTES Y

REFERENCES: CIOL-8424-74 OF 11 DECEMBER 1976, SUBJECT AS ADVER
FIRCI-312/03635-76 OF 1 DECEMBER 1976, SUBJECT COOPERATION
MAINTAINED BY CERTAIN DOMINICAN MILITARY OFFICERS AND ANTI-CASTRO
CUBAN EXILES.Y

THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION WAS ACQUIRED BY CIA PURSUANT TO
ITS RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE COLLECTION OF INTELLIGENCE ON FOREIGN
ASPECTS OF INTERNATIONAL TERRORIST ACTIVITY. ACCORDING TO A
USUALLY RELIABLE DOMINICAN SOURCE WHO RECEIVED THE INFORMATION
FROM A DOMINICAN AIR FORCE COLONEL, U.S. ARMY MAJOR JUAN ARMAND
MONTES

--- Page 8 ---

14-00000

MONTES ATTENDED A MEETING OF ANTI-CASTRO CUBAN EXILES IN
SANTO DOMINGO IN EARLY NOVEMBER 1976 AT THE HOME OF A FORMER
SENATOR OF THE BATISTA GOVERNMENT. MONTES CAME TO THE DOMINICAN
REPUBLIC TO ACQUIRE DOMINICAN SUPPORT FOR THE "CRUSADE AGAINST
CASTRO" AND NOTED THAT CUBAN EXILES IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC AND
DOMINICAN MILITARY AND CIVILIANS WERE WILLING TO COOPERATE. THE
LIAISON MAN BETWEEN THE VARIOUS ANTI-CASTRO CUBAN EXILES IS JUAN
(OR JOSE) ANTONIO PRAT WHO APPARENTLY RESIDES IN MIAMI.
(HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: PRAT MAY POSSIBLY BE ANTONIO PRAT
BARROSO, A VETERAN OF THE BAY OF PIGS INVASION.)

ACCORDING TO THE DOMINICAN AIR FORCE COLONEL, A MEETING
TOOK PLACE WHEN ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, CUBAN EXILE TERRORIST
LEADER, STILL LIVED IN SANTO DOMINGO TO DISCUSS VARIOUS TERRORIST
PLANS. THE LATTER INCLUDED PLACING BOMBS ON CUBAN AIRCRAFT AND
AT CUBAN DIPLOMATIC MISSIONS; SABOTAGING CUBAN AND SOVIET SHIPS;
KIDNAPPING THE CUBAN AMBASSADOR TO THE UNITED NATIONS AND KILLING
HIGH-LEVEL CUBAN OFFICIAL CARLOS RAFAEL RODRIGUEZ IN
LISBON (SIC). PARTICIPANTS AT THIS MEETING INCLUDED BOSCH AVILA;

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000

JUAN EDUARDO PEREZ FRANCO, A CUBAN EXILE; EX-BRIGADIER
GENERAL SALVADOR LLUBERES MONTAS, FORMER CHIEF OF STAFF
OF THE DOMINICAN AIR FORCE; COLONEL A BREV (FNU) OF THE
DOMINICAN AIR FORCES; JOSE BOBADILLA URRI; FERNANDO
MUNIZ, A DOMINICAN; RAUL (OR RUBEN) SILIE DE R. [PHONETIC];
A DOMINICAN; AND LUIS POSADA CARRILES OR POSADA.

PETER (OR PEDRO) MARTINEZ WAS MENTIONED AS A COORDINATOR
OF ONE OF THE PLANNED TERRORIST ACTS.

FIELD COMMENT: AIR FORCE COLONEL ARRESU MAY BE EITHER
COLONEL JUAN DISLA ABREU, COMMANDER OF THE NORTHERN ZONE,
OR GENERAL ELADIO MARNOLEJOS ABREU COMMANDER OF THE
SAN ISIDRO AIR FORCE BASE WHO IS A CLOSE FRIEND OF FORMER GENERAL
LLUBERES MONTAS. FERNANDO MUNIZ IS POSSIBLY IDENTICAL WITH THE
RIGHTIST DOMINICAN LABOR LEADER OF THIS NAME. (HEADQUARTERS
COMMENT: JUAN JOSE BUTTARI CRESPO, BORN 22 NOVEMBER 1933, HAVANA, A VETERAN
OF THE BAY OF PIGS INVASION. PETER MARTINEZ MAY BE IDENTICAL
WITH PEDRO CELESTINO MARTINEZ GARCES, BORN 19 MAY 1924,
BATAGANO, CUBA.

--- Page 10 ---

14-00000

BATAGANO, CUBA, CAPTURED DURING THE BAY OF PIGS INVASION AND
SUBSEQUENTLY LIBERATED. LUIS POSADA MAY BE IDENTICAL WITH LUIS
POSADA CARRILES WHO WAS ARRESTED BY THE VENEZUELAN
AUTHORITIES WITH BOSCH AVILA FOR HIS INVOLVEMENT IN CONNECTION
WITH THE CUBANA CRASH OFF BARBADOS AND WAS SUBSEQUENTLY RELEASED.

THIS AGENCY CONTINUES WILLING TO ASSIST IN WHATEVER
ACTION ADDRESSEES MAY WISH TO TAKE. PLEASE ADVISE US OF THE
RESULTS OF YOUR INVESTIGATIONS.

CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XGPS-2.1
BASED ON: SANTO DOMINGO 17932 (IN 1321251
SANTO DOMINGO 17938 (IN 132344)
SOURCE: EMKAGO: ENFIST-1 FROM COLONEL USINO GUZMAN LIRIANO
FILE: 229-26 AND 201-742345.

DATE: 22 DEC 76
ORIG: VIVIAN GARDELLA
UNIT: LA/CAR/DRI/R
EXT: 2379

--- Page 11 ---

14-00000

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

SECRET

WE MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR

TO: CARACAS, SANTO DOMINGO.

UNINTEL RYBAT MHSPIKE

REFS: A. CARACAS 31765 [IN 136339]
B. SANTO DOMINGO 17938 [IN 133384]

1. WE HAVE NOT YET DETERMINED IF LUIS POSADA CARRILES
(201-0300985) IS A U.S. PERSON. THIS IS A COMPLICATED ISSUE AND
REQUIRES FURTHER INVESTIGATION AT HQS. OUR LATEST INFO FROM I&NS IS
THAT HIS RESIDENT ALIEN STATUS WAS TERMINATED AT OUR REQUEST BECAUSE
OF HIS 30 JUNE 1974 DECISION TO STAY IN VENEZUELA.

2. DUE TO COMPLEXITY OF SITUATION INVOLVING POSADA AND CUBAN
EXILE MATTERS IN VENEZUELA, HQS FEELS INVESTIGATION OF POSADA
(UNILATERAL OR LIAISON) MIGHT CAUSE PROBLEMS FOR CARACAS STATION.
THEREFORE REQUEST CARACAS TAKE NO ACTION AT THIS TIME ON REF B
REQUEST.

3. FILE: 200-6-484; 201-0742365; 201-0300985. E2 IMPDET.

LA COMMENT: POSADA IS FORMER UKSCARLET-3, CUBAN AGENT WITH VENEZUE-
LAN CITIZENSHIP, WHO WAS A HIGH-LEVEL DISIP (CIVILIAN INTEL) OFFICIAL.
HE HAS BEEN ASSOCIATED WITH PERSONS IMPLICATED IN CUBANA BOMBING
OF 6 OCTOBER.

DATE: 22 DEC 76
ORIG: G.VICKERS:PM
UNIT: LA/PNC/V
EXT: 1719

SECRET CL BY: 007255
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED E2 IMPDET

--- Page 12 ---

14-00000

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY
TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT

T 474960
EI AC15
PAGE 01-21
IN 136339
TOR:2122412 DEC 76 CARA 31765

SECRET 212234 DEC 76 STAFF
CITE CARACAS 31765
TO: DIRECTOR, SANTO DOMINGO.
WNINTEL RYBAT MMSPIKE
REF: SANTO DOMINGO 17938 (IN 133384)

1. WE CAN TASK WKNORTH-6, LIAISON PENETRATION, WITH REF
REQUIREMENT. HOWEVER, SINCE LUIS POSADA CARRILES MAY BE
U.S. PERSON, WOULD LIKE TO DEFER TO HQS FOR READING UNDER
E.O. 11905.

2. FILE: 200-6-484; 201-0742365. E2, IMPDET.

SECRET

--- Page 13 ---

14-00000

SECRET

RE PARA 1 E. REF. STATION UNILATERAL ASSET EMCLIPPER-1
REPORTS THAT VENEZUELAN CITIZEN LUIS POSADA ARRIVED
SANTO DOMINGO FROM CARACAS ON VIASA FLIGHT 4 JUNE AND DEPARTED
7 JUNE 1976. POSADA TRAVELLED ON A TOURIST CARD. POSADA
MATRONYMIC UNCLEAR. ENCLIPPER-1'S BEST GUESS IS "GARRIDO"
OR "CARRIDO" BUT HE THINKS THIS COULD BE WAY OFF.

2. CARACAS: REF REPORTED ON PARTICIPANTS IN MEETING
(DATE UNKNOWN) OF CUBAN EXILE TERRORISTS IN SANTO DOMINGO.
NAME OF ONE OF THE PARTICIPANTS WAS REPORTED AS "LUIS POSADA
PE ZA OR POSADA". STATION ASSUMES THIS IS LUIS
POSADA CARRILES. IF POSSIBLE, WILL APPRECIATE CARACAS
CHECK TRAVEL OF POSADA ON 4 JUNE. NO OBJECTION CHECKING WITH
LIATSON.

3. FILE: 202-6-484 201-747365. E2. IMPDET.

SECRET

--- Page 14 ---

14-00000

17 December 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

As a result of the request in CARACAS 31137, a
check of I&NS records revealed the following regarding
U.S. person, status of

1. Orlando Garcia
Became U.S. citizen on 11 October 1954.
Lost U.S. citizenship when he became a
citizen of Venezuela on 31 August 1962

2. Luis Posada Carriles
I&NS files contain a letter from CIA
terminating his resident alien status
because of his 30 June 1974 'decision to
stay in Venezuela

3. Ricardo Morales Navarrete
Last admitted to US August 1, 1976 with
a visitor's visa. (Address to be visited
given as 8100 SW 4th St., Miami, Fla.)
Does not have resident alien status.
Was never naturalized.

--- Page 15 ---

14-00000

FBI DOCUMENT
CABLE (FROM DIRECTOR, FBI)

DATE: 4 NOVEMBER 1976
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
SUBJECT: UNSUBS: BOMBING OF CUBANA AIRLINES DC-8 NEAR BARBADOS, WEST INDIES,
OCTOBER 6, 1976, NEUTRALITY MATTERS - CUBA - WEST INDIES
FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN

--- Page 16 ---

14-00000

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Deputy Director for Operations

FROM:

SUBJECT: Information Regarding Anti-Castro
Figures Possibly Involved in Neutrality
Or Other Violations of Federal Law

REFERENCE: Memorandum from Director, FBI, to
Director, CIA, Dated 26 November 1976,
Sub Subject:

The referenced memorandum requested complete CIA
information on some 92 principal anti-Castro figures who
are of investigative interest to the FBI. Attached here-
with are CIA traces on seven individuals mentioned in the
FBI listing. Data on the remaining 85 will follow sepa-
rately and incrementally as traces are completed.

CIR-316/04881-76
Classified by 09560. Exempt from General Declassification
Schedule of E.O. 11652. Exemption Category 5ยง(2). Impos-
sible to Determine Date of Automatic Declassification.

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

DDO/LA/OPS/W.Carley:lch (7 Dec 76) (1173)
Distribution:

--- Page 17 ---

14-00000

SECRET

1. NOVO Sampol, Guillermo. There is no information
available on him beyond that provided this Agency by the
FBI. There is no current or previous operational interest
in this individual.

2. NOVO Sampol, Ignacio. There is no information
available on him beyond that provided this Agency by the
FBI. There is no current or previous operational interest
in this individual.

3. LUGO Alejandrina, Freddy. There is no information
available on him. There is no current or previous operational
interest in this individual.

4. RICARDO Lozano, Hernan. There is no information
available on him. There is no current or previous oper-
ational interest in this individual.

5. BOSCH Avila, Orlando. This Agency was in contact
with BOSCH in Miami from approximately January to November
1962. He was under consideration as an "external coordinator"
in the Evelio Duque exile group. BOSCH was to assist the
Agency and Duque in formulating operational plans for infil-
tration (into Cuba) teams. BOSCH did obtain safehouses and
procured food supplies for the teams. Available information
does not indicate any Agency contact with BOSCH for this
purpose subsequent to November 1962. Later, on 31 October
and 1 November 1963, a representative of this Agency met in
New York City with BOSCH twice. These two meetings were in
connection with efforts by BOSCH to secure financial backing
for air strikes (mounted from Central America) against Cuba.
BOSCH at this time was the General Coordinator of the in-
surrectional Movement of Recuperation (MIRR).
BOSCH was informed through an intermediary on either 2 or 3
November 1963 that no financial backing would be forthcoming.

There is no available information to indicate any Agency
contact with BOSCH subsequent to 1 November 1963.

6. POSADA Carriles, Luis. POSADA arrived in the U.S.
in February 1961 as a political refugee. Shortly after his
arrival, he joined the 2506 Brigade and received paramilitary
training in Guatemala under Agency auspices in preparation
for the Bay of Pigs invasion. POSADA received at least
rudimentary familiarization training in demolitions, and was
trained in usage of various hand-held weapons, in Guatemala.
From March 1963 until March 1964 POSADA was in the U.S. Army
at Fort Benning, Georgia, finishing up as a Second Lieutenant

--- Page 18 ---

14-00000

SECRET

and serving as Officer of a weapons platoon in a Ranger
battalion. In the latter function, POSADA would very
likely have received demolitions training. In March
1965 POSADA was recruited by the Agency to serve as a
Maritime Training Branch instructor in Florida. Information
at that time indicated that he already was reported to be
a "demolitions expert". POSADA also was used as a source
of information on Cuban exile activities. In 1965 POSADA
was involved with Luis SIERRA Lopez who was working with
Roberto ALEJOS Arzu, a Guatemalan who was attempting to
overthrow the Guatemalan Government. POSADA was of interest
to the SITARA/ALEJOS group because of his knowledge of
demolitions and weapons. POSADA reported to the Agency
and later to the FBI, on his involvement in and the activities
of this group (and subsequent other Cuban exile activist
organizations with which he became affiliated). As of
August 1966 he was used solely as an informant on the activities
of the 'Cuban Representation in Exile' (RECE), a Miami-based
exile group. POSADA was formally terminated in July 1967.

In August 1967 he was mentioned in a Havana Radio broadcast
as a liaison man between the Agency and RECE. In August
1967 POSADA moved to Caracas and secured a position with
DIGEPOL, the Venezuelan security service (now known as
DISIP). The Agency's Caracas Station hired POSADA as an
informant on DIGEPOL/DISIP activities, with secondary use
as a source on Cuban exile activities in Venezuela. He
functioned in this capacity until 1974 when a change in
Venezuelan Government administration resulted in the loss
of his job with DISIP. He was formally terminated by Caracas
Station on 30 June 1974; however, occasional contact was
maintained with him at his initiative because of certain
outstanding U.S. Federal Income Tax problems POSADA had
because of his (then) status as a Permanent Resident Alien
of the U.S. In mid-February 1976, POSADA recontacted Caracas
Station to volunteer a report on the whereabouts of Orlando
BOSCH Avila, Frank CASTRO Paz, and on a threat to the life
of Salvador ALLENDE's nephew in Costa Rica. The final con-
tact between the Agency and POSADA occurred on 22 June 1975
when he contacted the Caracas Station to request visa as-
sistance for his wife and himself; the assistance was denied.

7. CARBALLO Diaz, Roberto. CARBALLO received Agency
paramilitary training as a member of the 2506 Brigade in
preparation for the Bay of Pigs invasion. He was captured
at the Bay of Pigs, and subsequently was released by the
Cuban Government. Apart from the 2506 Brigade service, there
is no available information to indicate any subsequent con-
tact between the Agency and CARBALLO.

SECRET

--- Page 19 ---

14-00000

SECRET

Agency traces on additional persons mentioned
in the 26 November 1976 FBI memorandum to the Agency will
follow separately.

--- Page 20 ---

14-00000

SECRET

DISPATCH

FROM: Chief, Latin America Division
Chief of Station, Quito

SUBJECT: NOC Byron W. GUTRADT's Past Contacts with
Bosch and WKSCARLET-3

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES & METHODS INVOLVED

1. We understand from press accounts that Orlando Bosch,
WKSCARLET-3 and several other Cuban exiles were recently arrested
and charged with the sabotage of a Cubana Airlines airliner on
6 October. After having read these accounts NOC Byron W. GUTRADT
reported, for the record, that he once knew Bosch and WKSCARLET-3
in the early 1960's. GUTRADT met WKSCARLET-3 in 1964 when both
were enrolled in OCS at Fort Benning, Georgia. GUTRADT at that
time had already terminated his relationship with BKHERALD.

While at OCS GUTRADT was not particularly close to WKSCARLET-3
but WKSCARLET-3 was generally knowledgeable of GUTRADT's back-
ground and past BKHERALD activities. GUTRADT has not seen
WKSCARLET-3 since 1964 after completion of the OCS course and
doubts seriously that WKSCARLET-3 would remember him.

2. GUTRADT met Bosch circa 1963 in Miami when GUTRADT was
training Bosch in a BKHERALD-sponsored program. Bosch only knew
GUTRADT in alias. GUTRADT has not seen Bosch since completion
of this training.

3. Given the length of time that has elapsed plus the lack
of closeness to either WKSCARLET-3 or Bosch, GUTRADT and the
Station do not believe that their knowledge of his past BKHERALD
activities presents any security problems today. GUTRADT, of
course, was unwitting of their alleged current activities and
was surprised to hear of the bombing of the Cubana airliner.

Gerald R. Gizzi

Distribution:
3-C/LAD E2 IMPDET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
HEQA-09809

CROSS REFERENCE TO
B201-299292

DATE
15 NOV 1976

--- Page 21 ---

14-0000

SECRET

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR,
WNINTEL RYBAT WKBOXER

REF: DIRECTOR 939719

1. EVENING 8 NOVEMBER 1976 WKSCARLET-1 (W-1) MADE SURPRISE
VISIT TO CONSULATE REQUESTING SEE BRADSPIES, IN TYPICALLY
DEMANDING FASHION; WKSCARLET-1 SAID HE WANTED TO BE PUT IN
CONTACT WITH MICHAEL C. CHOADEN AND WANTED BRADSPIES HELP
IN OBTAINING BUSINESS VISA FROM CONSULATE. W-1 PREFACED
HIS FIRST REQUEST WITH STATEMENT HE HAD BEEN PROMISED BY
CHOADEN WHEN HE LAST VISITED THE HEADQUARTERS AREA THAT A
BKHERALD REPRESENTATIVE WOULD CONTACT HIM FOLLOWING HIS RETURN
TO CARACAS, AND THAT NO ONE HAD CONTACTED HIM. (FACT OF
MATTER IS W-1 HAD EARLIER TOLD US THAT FOR SECURITY REASONS
HE SHOULD ONLY BE CONTACTED AT HIS OFFICE. IMMEDIATELY
FOLLOWING HIS RETURN FROM VISIT, HE CLOSED THE OFFICE AND
DID NOT RESPOND TO ATTEMPTS TO CONTACT HIM.) W-1 ALSO
SAID HE HAD TRIED TO GET HELP FROM LEGATT IN OBTAINING VISA
BUT HAD BEEN TOLD "LEGATT NOT AVAILABLE".

SECRET

--- Page 22 ---

14-00000

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT

T 367182
EI A351
PAGE 02
IN 094881
TOR: 0919432 NOV 76 CARA 31380

2. W-1 WAS TOLD THAT WE DID NOT KNOW THE PRESENT
LOCATION OF CHOADEN AS HE HAD RETIRED BUT WOULD LOOK INTO
THE MATTER. W-1 INDICATED HE WANTED THE VISA IMMEDIATELY
(CONSULATE WAS OBVIOUSLY CLOSED WITH CHAR FORCE IN FULL
SWING) AND WAS ASKED THE NATURE OF HIS BUSINESS VISIT. HE
SEEMED TO RESENT THIS INQUIRY AND SAID NEVER MIND, HE WOULD
VISIT THE CONSULATE HIMSELF ON 9 NOVEMBER AND MAKE HIS OWN
APPLICATION. BRADSPIES ASKED IF W-1 WOULD INDICATE A TIME
FOR HIS PROPOSED VISIT AND VOLUNTEERED TO BE AVAILABLE TO
PERSONALLY RECEIVE HIM. THIS SEEMED TO ANNOY W-1 EVEN
FURTHER! HE THEN AROSE AND WALKED OUT OF THE CONSULATE WITHOUT
ANOTHER WORD.

3. AS HEADQUARTERS AWARE, W-1 HAS IN PAST RETAINED
PRIVATE INVESTIGATIONS FIRM OF LUIS POSADA TO CONDUCT
INVESTIGATIONS FOR W-1 AS SECURITY ADVISOR TO THE GUSTAVO
VOLMER INDUSTRIALIST GROUP. WE HAVE SEEN OTHER AGENCY INFO
THAT W-1 IS ACTUALLY A SHAREHOLDER IN POSADA'S INVESTIGATIONS
FIRM, BUT POSADA NEVER LISTED W-1 AS AMONG PARTNERS HE
IDENTIFIED TO US DURING OUR LAST FEW CONTACTS WITH HIM.
WKNORTH-17 BELIEVES W-1 IS A BUSINESS PARTNER OF POSADA AND HAS

SECRET

--- Page 23 ---

14-00000

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT

T 367182
EI A351
PAGE 03
IN 094881
TOR: 0919432 NOV 76 CARA 31380

ALLEGED TO US THAT W-1 IS IN PART RESPONSIBLE FOR THE CUBANA
AIRLINES BOMBING ON 6 OCTOBER. WE THINK THIS ALLEGATION
WAS PART OF THE GOV INTENT TO TIE THE COPEI PARTY INTO THE
BOMBING, BUT DO NOT KNOW WHAT EVIDENCE GOV MAY HAVE.

4. AMBASSADOR HAS BEEN BRIEFED ON PARA 1 AND 2 ABOVE.
HAS STATED HE DOES NOT WANT STATION INVOLVED VISA MATTER AND
IS INSTRUCTING CONSULATE ON HOW TO HANDLE.

5. ONLY EXPLANATION FOR W-1 CONDUCT WHICH IMMEDIATELY
OCCURS TO US IS THAT HE WAS STILL SMARTING FROM IMAGINED
SNUB BY LEGATT (LATTER IS NO DOUBT GUN-SHY ABOUT GIVING VISA
ASSISTANCE AFTER THE HERNAN RICARDO LOZANO EPISODE)
WHEN HE CONTACTED STATION, HE MAY BE IN A HURRY TO LEAVE
VENEZUELA DUE FEAR IMMINENT ARREST (SEE REF) AND WAS COUNTING
ON IMMEDIATE GRANT OF BUSINESS VISA WHICH WOULD FACILITATE
PROLONGED STAY IN U.S.

6. ABOVE IS FYI AS W-1 MAY ATTEMPT HIGH LEVEL AGENCY
CONTACT NEXT TIME HE IS IN HEADQUARTERS AREA.

7. FILE: 201-0740849. E2, IMPDET.

SECRET

--- Page 24 ---

14-00000

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT

T 352499
EI A048
PAGE 01
IN 088993
TOR: 031743Z NOV 76 CARA 31326

SECRET 031722Z NOV 76 STAFF
CITE CARACAS 31326
TO: DIRECTOR.
WNINTEL MHSPIKE KMSTONE
REF: CARACAS 31255 (CIA 081811)

1. FYI, CARACAS NEWSPAPERS MORNING 3 NOVEMBER 1976
REPORT FOLLOWING RESULTS 2 NOVEMBER JUDICIAL HEARING ON
INVESTIGATION OF CUBANA AIRCRAFT BOMBING:

A. JUDGE ORDERED CONTINUED DETENTION OF HERNAN
RICARDO LOZANO, FREDDY LUGO, LUIS POSADA
CARRILES AND ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA.

B. HERMES ROJAS PERALTA, GUETON OLEG
RODRIGUEZ DE LA SERRA TRETIACOFF, WILLIAM KOOL F
FIGUEREDO AND FRANCISCO NUNEZ VALLEJO WERE SET FREE
BUT WILL CONTINUE TO BE SUBJECTED TO FURTHER INVESTIGATION.

C. ALFREDO RAFAEL MAZINI (MASSINI) PEREZ AND CELSA
MARY TOLEDO ALEMAN WERE ABSOLVED OF ANY TIES TO THE
CASE.

2. IN COMMENTING ON DECISION, JUDGE SAID ALL FOUR
DETAINEES HAD VIOLATED ARTICLES 408 AND 275 OF THE CRIMINAL

SECRET

--- Page 25 ---

14-0000

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT

T 352499
EI A048
PAGE 02-02
IN 088993
TOR: 031743Z NOV 76 CARA 31326

CODE AND WERE ALLEGEDLY GUILTY OF "QUALIFIED HOMICIDE" AND
MANUFACTURE AND USE OF WEAPONS OF WAR. BOSCH AND POSADA
WERE ACCUSED AS AUTHORS OF THE BOMBING. BOSCH WAS ALSO
CHARGED WITH VIOLATIONS OF ARTICLES 320, 323 AND 327 OF
CRIMINAL CODE FOR USE AND FABRICATION OF FALSE IDENTIFICATION.
JUDGE COMMENTED THAT COURT HAD SUFFICIENT EVIDENCE TO
PROSECUTE.

3. FILE: 201-0300985. E2 IMPDET.

SECRET

--- Page 26 ---

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SECRET--WARNING NOTICE--SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS
INVOLVED--DISSEMINATION AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY
ORIGINATOR

SUBJECT: REPORT RECEIVED BY PANAMANIAN NATIONAL GUARD ON ACTIVITIES
OF CUBAN EXILES POSSIBLY INVOLVED IN TERRORISM

1. THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION WAS RECEIVED FROM AN OFFICIAL OF A
PANAMANIAN SERVICE WHO IS A USUALLY RELIABLE REPORTER. HE PROVIDED
THE INFORMATION WITHOUT THE KNOWLEDGE OF HIS SERVICE OR GOVERNMENT.
THE INFORMATION IS VERY SENSITIVE, AND NO ACTION BASED UPON IT SHOULD
BE UNDERTAKEN WITHOUT THE APPROVAL OF THIS AGENCY.

2. ON 22 OCTOBER 1976, THE G-2 SECTION OF THE PANAMANIAN
NATIONAL GUARD (GN) RECEIVED A HANDWRITTEN DOCUMENT WHICH APPARENTLY
WAS OBTAINED FROM A NEW GN G-2 SOURCE IN MIAMI. ALTHOUGH THIS SOURCE
IS NOT IDENTIFIED BY NAME IN THE DOCUMENT, THE WRITER APPEARS TO BE
THE PROPRIETOR OF "PASCO'S SEA FOOD," 1030 WEST TWENTY-THIRD STREET,
HIALEAH, WITH TELEPHONES 885-7344 (OFFICE), 888-6267 (HOME). THE

--- Page 27 ---

14-00000

PHONE NUMBER 854-4031 FOLLOWED BY NOTATION "MY HOURS." ALSO APPEARS
ON DOCUMENT. THE WRITER IS ASKING US $10,000 FOR HIS SERVICES.

3. PRESUMABLY TO ESTABLISH HIS BONA FIDES AND SUBSTANTIATE HIS
ACCESS TO INFORMATION OF VALUE TO THE PANAMANIAN GOVERNMENT, THE
WRITER SUBMITTED A LENGTHY REPORT ON ALLEGED RECENT CUBAN EXILE
ACTIVITIES ACCOMPANIED BY A LONG LIST OF CUBAN EXILE ACTIVISTS. THE
DOCUMENT CONTAINS AN ALLEGATION OF CIA INVOLVEMENT IN THIS ACTIVITY.
THE DOCUMENT STATES THAT ORLANDO BOSCH IS UNDER ARREST IN
VENEZUELA TOGETHER WITH LUIS POSADA CARRILES ALIAS "EL BAMBI."
BOSCH WAS TRAVELING ON A COSTA RICAN PASSPORT AND ALSO NICARAGUAN,
DOMINICAN, AND CHILEAN PASSPORTS.

4. THE REPORT LISTED BOSCH'S CONTACTS AS MANUEL PORRO IN
NICARAGUA (DESCRIBED AS BEING CLOSE TO GENERAL ANASTASIO SOMOZA),
ORLANDO NUNEZ IN COSTA RICA AND MARIO RIVADILLA IN
SANTO DOMINGO. POSADA IS DESCRIBED IN THE REPORT AS A FORMER U.S.
ARMY RANGER, WHO WORKED FOR THE VENEZUELAN GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF
POLICE (DIGEPOL) FOR EIGHT YEARS AND THEN ORGANIZED A PRIVATE
DETECTIVE AGENCY WHICH EMPLOYS OVER 1,000 MEN. POSADA, ACCORDING

--- Page 28 ---

14-00000

TO THE REPORT, DIRECTED ALL VIOLENT ACTIONS IN VENEZUELA AGAINST THE
COMMUNISTS. HIS ALIASES WERE "INSPECTOR BASILIO" AND "EL CALICHE."

THE RECENT OPERATION AGAINST THE CUBANA PLANE WAS MOUNTED BY POSADA,
ASSISTED BY ALDO VERA. THE WRITER OF THE REPORT CONTIN