14-00000
104-10163-10136 [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOP AND BOTTOM

UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP
SECRET

TO
NAME AND ADDRESS
745/ESAC
DATE
INITIALS
Aug 13/57
As/d1/habe Say

ACTION
APPROVAL
COMMENT
CONCURRENCE
Remarks:
Savy /W/
AMCLATTER/I
DIRECT REPLY
DISPATCH
FILE
INFORMATION
PREPARE REPLY
RECOMMENDATION
RETURN
SIGNATURE

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER
FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.
DATE
UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET
2-237
the previous editions
(40)
* &AMENTING CUPICE: 1966-67283
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000
SECRET
"Former Contacts Havana Station

able person: courage, good security and common sense. In my mind he
is the ideal type of Latin American agent. It will be a real loss to
the Agency if we lose sight or contact with Adolfo. I have met few men
more dedicated and more loyal.

5. Ramon USATEGUI Lazara AMPAN-3. Recruited by AMPAN-2 and so
close to each other that we referred to them as the "Gold Dust Twins."
Ramon was in the shipping business in Havana and eventually had to
leave. He lost his home, cars, furnishings, etc. His aim is now
planning to send him to Nicaragua, and I have recommended him to the
Nicaragua desk (rental). He has all the qualities ascribed to
Adolfo SAN FELAYO (see above) except that he has never been an American
citizen. He speaks excellent English. He is dedicated, courageous and
most anxious to maintain contact with the Agency. It will be our loss
if this is not done.

6. Fernand L. Barker. AMCLATTER-1. Wife: Clara. Barker is a
Cuban-American. Ex-Captain in the U.S.A.F. See PRQ and 201 for full
bio data. I recruited Barker in 1959, and he served faithfully until
we had to exfiltrate him sometime in 1960. He recruited a number of
valuable agents for the Station (including AMCLATTER-5, which see) and
had an amazing encyclopedic knowledge of Cuban persons, events and con-
tacts in all walks of life. He was a boxing manager and knew intimately
all Cuban personalities engaged in the sporting industry. He had a puppy-
dog loyalty to his case officers and to the Agency. His biggest weakness
was his lack of discretion. He was such a loyal American (actually if
not technically) that he would fight at the drop of a hat if anyone cast
aspersions on the United States or its leaders. In the atmosphere of
Castro's Cuba I might say that that was quite often. We are in the
process of helping him recover his lost American citizenship. When the
Station reopens I would certainly recommend that we continue to maintain
contact with Barker. If nothing else he would make a wonderful leg-man
for the Chief of Station. His wife is an attractive Cuban girl who is bi-
lingual and as belligerently "American" as he is. Barker, by looks and
by language, could pass either as an American or a Cuban - a genuine
asset if he could be taught to submerge his Americanism.

7. Manolo VEGA Abril (I met Manolo through Jorge 110950 LAT
who was a prisoner in Cuba as a result of the 17th of April invasion).
Manolo is working for us now in Miami, and I presume we have full bio
data on him. Manolo's family owned, along with Republic Steel, the big
steel plant in Havana which was nationalized by the Castro regime (Cia.
Antillana de Acero, S.A.). Manolo has a brother, Benigno, who would
also be worth cultivating. Through his business and family connections
Manolo knew a great many people of operational interest. One of his
friends was David SALVADOR, although Manolo did not share SALVADOR's
political thinking (extreme left and anti-American). He is the most
objective reporter as I have ever encountered among Latin.
