2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

CIA Internal Use Only
Access Controlled by DDP

HISTORICAL STAFF
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

THE CLANDESTINE SERVICE HISTORICAL SERIES

CS HP 334

COUNTERINTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS
SOVIET RUSSIA DIVISION
1946-1965

by

[Frederick Walters]

August 1972

David H. Blee
Chief, SB Division

VOLUME I
Copy No. 1: SB
Copy No. 2: O/DDP

SECRET

available to SR/CI/Research on that particular subject. Some of these studies were sterilized subsequently for passage to a wider list of recipients than the sensitivity of the original production permitted. Some studies were translated and given to foreign liaison services. Many of these studies were the result of suggestions for research topics from other SR Division offices, CIA-wide components, and organizations outside the CIA.

Throughout the period of this history, SR Reports, in coordination with Chief, SR/CI, had responsibility for the dissemination of timely general CI reports on the RIS. The area division concerned disseminated CI reports on the RIS which were clearly of only local significance.

J. Warren Commission Studies

The President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy, also known as the Warren Commission, through its General Counsel, Mr. J. Lee Rankin, frequently called upon the CIA for information.

* Attachment C lists the more important studies disseminated by SR/CI/Research and its predecessor organizations.

- 71 -

SECRET

in 1964. SR/CI/Research Branch responded to many of these requests for information working through CI Staff which assumed managerial control for CIA communications with the commission. The branch furnished information to the commission on a wide variety of topics concerning the RIS, Lee Harvey Oswald, and Oswald's associates in the USSR.*

In a meeting between CIA representatives and Messrs. Allen Dulles and Rankin of the Warren Commission on 14 January 1964, Rankin asked that CIA draft questions to be included in a letter to the Soviet Government concerning the Oswald case. The questions were to be "not too technical," should be sent soon, and were to be phrased in generalities in order to allow the Soviets more flexibility than would a longer, more pointed letter based on concrete US Government findings. These questions constituted the first direct involvement of Wigren and his Research Branch in the commission's work.

The commission wished to account in detail for all of Oswald's activities outside the United

* See Attachment D.

- 72 -

SECRET

States. Bagley, Chief, SR/CI, subsequently directed Wigren to begin a chronological tabulation of Oswald's activities in the USSR as collated from various sources. The commission made available to Wigren documents and reports already acquired from other US Government investigative agencies. The commission agreed in principle to honor CIA sensitivity classifications to documents originated in the Agency for use of the commission. The Agency's role was limited to written communications to the commission.

By 21 January 1964 Wigren and his colleagues had prepared and transmitted the questions to the commission for relay to the Soviet Government. Soviet defector Petr Deryabin had contributed to this endeavor. The questionnaire had four basic parts. The first series of questions sought to make an assessment of Oswald's mental and physical condition. The Soviets were requested to furnish information on his medical treatment in the USSR while in the hospital following his suicide attempt in 1959 as well as any psychological evaluations of him. The second series of questions

- 73 -

SECRET

sought to assess Oswald's use of and dependence on weapons. He had owned a shotgun in the USSR and had joined a hunting organization there. The third series of questions sought to complete Warren Commission documentation of Oswald's background and career in the USSR. Those items particularly sought were his correspondence with the Soviet Government, Soviet Government documents issued to him concerning his request for asylum and permission to reside in the USSR, documents and registrations of his residence and employment in the USSR, and documents concerning his departure from the USSR. The final question asked whether Oswald had a police record in the USSR and requested information and documents if so.

A comprehensive SR/CI/Research paper on the Oswald case went to the commission on 25 January 1964. This was a detailed chronology of Oswald's sojourn in the USSR together with an alphabetical listing of persons in the USSR whom the Oswalds knew or mentioned. Identifying information was included whenever available. This chronology was in preliminary form but the commission urgently required

- 74 -

SECRET

collated material to support the taking of direct testimony. The source material for the chronology included personal documents, interviews, and official and private correspondence. Traces were based on CIA files and the Moscow and Minsk telephone directories. These preliminary name traces were also sent to the commission on the same day as the chronology. The final version of the name traces based on a review of the Oswald papers came to over 150 names; the results were furnished to the commission in late March 1964.

SR/CI/Research prepared for the commission at its request a paper survey of known data on Soviet use of assassination. This study was intended only for background information of commission members with the caveat that CIA as an organization did not believe that the Kennedy assassination was a Soviet-sponsored operation. Much of the material in the assassination study had been published previously within the Agency.

A fortuitous aspect of the SR/CI/Research concerning the Oswald case occurred when [Mr. Alexander W. Brasko] of the branch discovered by accident

- 75 -

SECRET

a photograph of Oswald in Graphics Register in March 1964. Brasko was seeking photographs of buildings in Minsk, USSR, where Oswald was resettled by the Soviet Government after 1959. Brasko found a copy of a color transparency which showed in a casual setting a young man who bore a remarkable facial resemblance to Oswald and was wearing a shirt identical in pattern and color to a shirt Oswald was wearing in photographs found in his effects following the Kennedy assassination. (Figure 1, page 77). The photograph was taken by an American tourist in Minsk's Central Square in August 1961 at the Palace of Culture. Copies of the photograph were also furnished to the FBI. The Bureau interviewed the photographer and her companions who could contribute little to their original statements when first interviewed by Agency representatives following their Soviet tour in 1961 (not about Oswald, however, whom they did not recall). A copy of this photograph was published on page 268 of the Warren Commission's report.

Some of the reports prepared by SR/CI/Research were deemed suitable for publication in the Commission's

- 76 -

SECRET

Palace of Culture, Central Square, Minsk, USSR
(Oswald is the young man on the right)

Figure 1.

- 77 -

SECRET

report in the public record, either as textual material or as footnotes backing up general comments. This required explicit permission from the DDP, and the rewriting or declassification of some material previously submitted to the commission.

In August 1964 Warren Commission Assistant Counsel W. David Slawson requested permission to publish in the commission report some memorandums submitted to the commission by SR/CI/Research via CI Staff. Since some of the material submitted to the commission earlier was intended for background use only or contained operational information, the reports in question were resubmitted to the commission in sanitized versions modeled on the originals. The revisions were identified as coming from CIA and appeared primarily in textual and footnote material on pages 258 to 280 of the commission's report.*

K. National Intelligence Survey on USSR Intelligence and Security

An important, recurring document written in

* Report of the President's Commission on the Assassination of President John F. Kennedy, US Government Printing Office, Washington, DC: 1964.

- 78 -

SECRET

Appendix C

Source References*

1. Survey of CE in SR Division, Volume II, by Robert H. Hicks, CI Staff. Aug 55. TS 110604.
2. FY 1955 USSR Operational Plan. TS 91403.
3. SR Division's Operational Program and Budget for the USSR, FY 1956-57. TS 107830.
4. Memo, Chief, SR for the DDP, sub: Field Trip Report, 3 Oct 55.
5. Survey of CE in SR Division, by Robert H. Hicks, CI Staff, Aug 55. TS 110604.
6. 1958 Inspection and Review Staff review of SR Division: "The Role of SR Division," 23 Dec 58. TS 153028.
7. Memo, I&R Staff for the DDP, sub: Inspection of SR/CE Staff, 22 Dec 58. TS 153026.
8. SR Division Operational Program, FY 1961, pp 16 ff. 22 Mar 60, TS 175603.
9. SR Division Notice No. 450, 17 Aug 61. See also CSHP 76, pp 57-64, for a more detailed discussion of the 1961 functional reorganization, and a list of the members of the Special Group which proposed it.
10. Memo of Conversation, 16 Jan 64; sub: CIA Work in Support of the Warren Commission; by Tennant H. Bagley.
11. XAAZ-22407, 21 Jan 64, sub: Questions to be submitted to the Soviet Government, filed in 201-288248 (Lee Harvey Oswald).

* Unless otherwise indicated, all source references may be considered classified SECRET.

- 375 -

SECRET

12. XAAZ-22409, 25 Jan 64, sub: The Oswald Chronology, filed in 201-289248.
13. XAAZ-22410, 25 Jan 64, sub: Name List with Traces, and XAAZ-22416, 26 Mar 64; sub: Name List with Traces, 201-289248.
14. XAAZ-22414, 28 Feb 64; sub: Soviet Use of Assassination and Kidnapping, 201-289248.
15. XAAZ-22420, 29 Apr 64, sub: Photo of OSWALD in Minsk, 201-289248.
16. RID AEPAGAN file 74-6-67/1, Archives Job No. 64-619/32.
17. 201-91182 (Irma Jung); SB/CI/P Archives DA file-Germany.
18. 201-96494 (Anatoliy Nikolayevich Krushin); SB/CI/P Archives DA File-Germany.
19. 201-46344 (Gennadiy Kotorovich); RID File 74-6-67/25, Archives Job. No. 65-117/79; SB/CI/P Archives DA File-Germany.
20. 201-89924 (Willi von Hohenegg); SB/CI/P Archives DA File-Germany.
21. 201-286975 (Guenther Faltlhansl); SB/CI/P Archives DA File-Austria.
22. 201-231917 (Calvin Floyd); SB/CI/P Archives DA File-Sweden.
23. 201-313667 (Olafur Eggertson Briem) SB/CI/P Archives DA File-Iceland.
24. 201-248427 (Guenther Schulz); SB/CI/P Archives DA File-Germany
25. 201-314343 (Carlo Gulino); also RID 48-6-28; SB/CI/P Archives DA File-Libya

- 376 -

SECRET

ATTACHMENT D

SR/CI/RESEARCH ITEMS
FOR WARREN COMMISSION

SECRET

Attachment D
SR/CI/Research Items for Warren Commission

1. 21 Jan. 1964 Questions to be submitted to the Soviet Government.
2. 22 Jan. 1964 Questionnaire for Marina OSWALD.
3. 25 Jan. 1964 The "OSWALD Chronology".
4. 25 Jan. 1964 Name list with traces (preliminary version).
5. 5 Feb. 1964 Biographic information on Mrs. OSWALD and her relatives.
6. 5 Feb. 1964 Letter explaining appendix designations.
7. 8 Feb. 1964 Letter regarding OSWALD's weapon in the USSR.
8. 28 Feb. 1964 Soviet use of assassination and kidnapping.
9. 28 Feb. 1964 Soviet press reaction to the assassination of President Kennedy.
10. 26 Mar. 1964 Name list with traces.
11. 6 Apr. 1964 Response to "Certain Questions Posed by the State Department Files".
12. 21 Apr. 1964 Additions to the Chronology of OSWALD in the USSR.
13. 24 Apr. 1964 Lydia DIMITRIEVNA.
14. 29 Apr. 1964 Photo of OSWALD in Minsk.
15. 6 May 1964 Contacts between the OSWALDs and Soviet citizens, 13 June 1962 to 22 November 1963.
16. 8 May 1964 Marina OSWALD's notebook.
17. 3 Jun. 1964 Documents on Lee Harvey OSWALD furnished by the Soviet Government.
18. 5 Jun. 1964 Allegations regarding Intelligence Training School in Minsk, USSR.
19. 22 Jul. 1964 Apparent inconsistencies in material furnished the Commission by CIA and the Department of State.
20. 24 Jul. 1964 Yekaterina FURTSEVA.
21. 31 Jul. 1964 Length of time required for obtaining Soviet Tourist Visas in Helsinki and Stockholm, 1964
22. 7 Aug. 1964 Soviet hunting societies.
23. 20 Aug. 1964 Konstantin Petrovich SERGEEVSKY.
24. 9 Sept. 1964 KGB footnote.
25. 10 Sept. 1964 KGB Handling of Foreigners in the USSR.

26. 10 Sept. 1964 Acquaintances of the OSWALDs in Minsk.
27. 10 Sept. 1964 Financial aid for foreigners in the USSR.
28. 10 Sept. 1964 Secret training locations and procedures in the USSR.
29. 10 Sept. 1964 Rates of compensation in the USSR.
30. 10 Sept. 1964 Emigration and travel of Soviet nationals.
31. 11 Sept. 1964 Geographic-descriptive data on Minsk.
32. 11 Sept. 1964 Certain questions posed by State Department files.
33. 11 Sept. 1964 Soviet hunting societies.
34. 11 Sept. 1964 Length of time required for obtaining Soviet Tourist Visas in Western Europe in 1964.
35. 18 Sept. 1964 Identification of persons appearing in FBI photo D 33-46.
36. 18 Sept. 1964 Passport and Visa office.
37. 18 Sept. 1964 Resettlement of US defectors in the USSR.
38. 18 Sept. 1964 Intourist hotels in Moscow.
