```markdown
14-00000

1 October 1968

CONCLUSIONS AND COMMENTS
IN THE CASE OF
YURIY IVANOVICH NOSENKO

---

14-00000
SECRET
1 October 1968

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Security
FROM: Deputy Chief, Security Research Staff
SUBJECT: NOSENKO, Yuriy Ivanovich

1. In accordance with the request of the Deputy Director of Central Intelligence, attached is a summary with conclusions concerning the bona fides of Yuriy Ivanovich NOSENKO. Sub-conclusions are contained in the summary concerning several major areas which were given primary consideration in the matter of the bona fides of NOSENKO.

2. Included in this summary are comments concerning conclusions in the previous summary and an annex containing remarks on three separate subjects related to the NOSENKO case.

3. In brief, the conclusion of this summary is that NOSENKO is the person he claims to be, that he held his claimed positions in the KGB during 1953 - January 1964, that NOSENKO was not dispatched by the KGB, and that his previous lies and exaggerations are not actually of material significance at this time.

Attachment:
Summary
Bruce L. Solie

---

14-00000

TABLE OF CONTENTS

I. Introduction
II. Summary of Developments in NOSENKO Case Since 30 October 1967
III. Analytical Comments Concerning the Bona Fides of Yuriy Ivanovich NOSENKO
    A. Is NOSENKO Identical to the Person Whom He Claims to be?
    B. Is the Claimed KGB Career of NOSENKO Plausible?
    C. Has NOSENKO Given an Acceptable Explanation of His Motivation in Contacting CIA in 1962 and For His Defection in 1964?
    D. Is the Information Furnished by NOSENKO to CIA Concerning KGB Operations, Personalities, and Organization Reasonably Commensurate With His Claimed KGB Career?
    E. Can the Information Furnished by NOSENKO be Considered in Toto as Having Resulted in Material Damage to the KGB and/or Has the Information Furnished by NOSENKO Been of Significant Benefit to Western Intelligence?
    F. Is There Evidence of KGB Deception or "Give-Away" in Information Furnished by NOSENKO Which Would Warrant a Conclusion that NOSENKO was Dispatched by the KGB?
    G. Is There Evidence of a Political or Any Other Type Objective Which Could Justify a Dispatch of NOSENKO by the KGB With Permission to Speak Freely to CIA Concerning His Knowledge of the KGB and Without NOSENKO Being Given a Specific Mission or Missions?
    H. Is There Any Evidence That the Contacts of NOSENKO in 1962 or in 1964 With CIA Were Known to the KGB Prior to His Defection or That NOSENKO Was Ever Briefed by the KGB Relative to His Behavior or KGB Objectives During These Contacts or After His Defection?
IV. Comments Concerning Previous Conclusions in Regard to NOSENKO
    A. NOSENKO Did Not Serve in the Naval RU in Any of the Capacities or at the Places and Times He Claimed
    B. NOSENKO Did Not Enter the KGB in the Manner or at the Time He Claimed
    C. NOSENKO Did Not Serve in the American Embassy Section Throughout the 1953 - 1955 Period as He Claimed
    D. During the Period 1955 - 1960, He Was Neither a Senior Case Officer in, nor Deputy Chief of, the Seventh Department American-British Commonwealth Section
    E. NOSENKO Was Neither Deputy Chief of the American Embassy Section nor a Senior Officer or Supervisor in the Section During the Period 1961-1962
    F. NOSENKO's Claims, That in 1962 He was Chief of the American-British Commonwealth Section and Was Thereafter a Deputy Chief of the Seventh Department, Are Not Credible
    G. NOSENKO Has no Valid Claim to Certainty That the KGB Recruited No American Embassy Personnel Between 1953 and His Defection in 1964
V. Annex
    A. Statements of Soviet Officials About NOSENKO
    B. Summaries of Cases Not Examined in Text
    C. The Cherepanov Papers

---

14-00000
SECRET

I. INTRODUCTION

The following summary and analysis is not intended to be all inclusive, that is to contain a specific comment on all organizational, operational, personality and case type information furnished by Yuriy Ivanovich NOSENKO. To attempt to do so would be repetitious and confusing to the reader and would not be of material benefit in the formation of logical conclusions concerning the rather limited areas of primary concern.

This summary will not contain a detailed psychological assessment of NOSENKO nor will it contain a recitation of the numerous theories which have been promulgated in the past concerning varying aspects of the NOSENKO case. This summary will be primarily directed toward the question of whether NOSENKO was or was not dispatched by the KGB, whether his claimed KGB career is relatively plausible and whether he has since late October 1967 been cooperative in a reassessment of the entire case for or against NOSENKO. NOSENKO has admitted certain lies and exaggerations in the past but claims that these were of a personal nature, intended to enhance his own importance but not to mislead this Agency in any material matters of an operational or policy nature.

In order to avoid any misunderstanding of the phrase "bona fides" as considered in this summary, NOSENKO will be judged primarily on whether he voluntarily defected to this Agency without KGB knowledge, and whether his 1962 and early 1964 contacts with representatives of this Agency were known to the KGB. Motivation and certain other pertinent aspects will be considered, but his admitted previous errors, lies and exaggerations will not per se warrant a conclusion that NOSENKO is not a "bona fide" defector.

There is not an accurate standard or scale of measurement against which information concerning NOSENKO can be balanced or correlated to determine if he is or is not a dispatched KGB officer. For purposes of this analysis and summary, an arbitrary list of areas considered pertinent has been compiled. Readers may differ in regard to whether this arbitrary standard is a completely accurate standard, but it is felt that the information from NOSENKO and information from other sources derived through independent investigation will permit the reader to assess the information in toto against any standard he considers appropriate.

The previous summary on NOSENKO entitled, "The Examination of the Bona Fides of a KGB Defector," has been considered in the preparation of this summary. It will be commented on in part and this summary will include conclusions correlated with the seven primary conclusions set forth on page 358 of the above summary. Remarks concerning certain errors, inconsistencies, omissions and unsupported conclusions in the previous summary in regard to specific cases or sub-areas will be included in this summary. However, this summary will not include a point-by-point comparison of all areas of agreement or disagreement with information contained in the previous summary.

A positive decision in regard to NOSENKO based on all available information should be made in the immediate future. There are no known sources currently available to provide new positive information concerning NOSENKO and his bona fides. It is recognized that there is always a possibility in the future a new source or sources will be able to furnish additional information in regard to NOSENKO. However, this possibility is exceedingly tenuous and it is felt there is sufficient information available on which to base a conclusion in the NOSENKO matter.

---

14-00000
SECRET

II. SUMMARY OF DEVELOPMENTS IN NOSENKO CASE SINCE 30 OCTOBER 1967

SUMMARY OF DEVELOPMENTS IN NOSENKO CASE SINCE 30 OCTOBER 1967

Since 30 October 1967, interviews with Yuriy Ivanovich NOSENKO have been conducted by one individual not previously known personally to NOSENKO but who has been aware of the NOSENKO case since June 1962.

Interviews have been detailed and very extensive in scope, have been recorded and transcribed, and have covered the entire life and career of NOSENKO without regard to whether a particular aspect had been covered during previous interview or interviews.

NOSENKO, although naturally apprehensive during the first few interviews, has been cooperative, has developed a relaxed attitude, and the interviewer has noted no significant reluctance to discuss any aspect of his life, career, or activities. On occasion NOSENKO has indicated a reluctance to make positive statements in certain areas previously considered at a minimum extremely controversial. This reluctance was understandable and when it became apparent to NOSENKO that the interviewer would not dispute or disparage his statements without adequate reason, this reluctance on the part of NOSENKO, in the opinion of the interviewer, totally disappeared.

During the interviewing period, particularly in the first six months, NOSENKO materially assisted the interviewer by preparing approximately sixty memoranda on such diverse subjects as his life, motivation for defection, individual cases, notes which he furnished to CIA in 1964, KGB organization, and KGB officer and agent personalities. As an example of the scope of this work by NOSENKO, four of the memoranda included remarks concerning approximately [875] KGB officers, [100] KGB agents, 35 GRU officers, and [400] other Soviet nationals. These lists were alphabetically arranged and the above indicated cooperation of NOSENKO has materially assisted in the organization and evaluation of information furnished by him during current interviews.

Copies of transcripts of interviews with NOSENKO and related memoranda have been disseminated to the FBI and the CI Staff. Special Agent Elbert Turner and Special Agent James Wooten of the Washington Field Office/FBI in particular have given great assistance in research and compilation of new or additional information and the FBI has interviewed or reinterviewed a number of United States citizens concerning whom NOSENKO has furnished pertinent information.

In addition, three professionals from the SB Division have reviewed the current information and assisted in the retrieval of previous information from NOSENKO and collation of current information with previous information. The latter is a tremendous task because of the volume of material; the number of individual cases involved; and the extensive information in regard to KGB personalities, procedures, organizational structure and activities. The SB Division also provided the services of an expert translator to translate the tapes of the 1965 interrogation of NOSENKO by Petr DERYABIN and one of the previously mentioned three professionals completed a new translation of the 1962 interviews with NOSENKO. In addition, transcriptions of certain other particularly pertinent previous interviews of NOSENKO have been completed by the Office of Security.

Approximately 7000 pages of transcripts and related material have been compiled and disseminated since late October 1967. Comments concerning the value of the information contained in the above material are contained in another section of this summary. As of the present time, a complete analysis is not possible since a considerable portion of the material has not been fully processed. In the preparation of this summary all areas of major significance have been examined. Because of the voluminous information, all analytical and collation work has not been completed; but it is not considered that, based on all available information, the remaining work will materially affect the conclusions drawn in this summary.

The polygraph interview of NOSENKO was initiated on 2 August and concluded on 6 August 1968. Approximately sixty questions of a pertinent nature were included in the polygraph interview. No problems were encountered during the polygraph interview and no additional testing of NOSENKO is anticipated. Attached is a copy of the self-explanatory report on the results of the polygraph interview.

Interviews with NOSENKO have continued since the polygraph interview on a temporarily reduced scale in order to permit a review of previous information and preparation of this summary. There is no doubt that future interviews with NOSENKO will reveal information of intelligence value, but information developed thus far will permit a decision in the case of Yuriy Ivanovich NOSENKO.

Attachment:
12 Aug 68 Polygraph Rpt

---

14-00000

12 August 1968

TO : Chief, Security Research Staff
FROM : Interrogation Research Division
SUBJECT : Yuriy Ivanovich NOSENKO IRD # 67492

IDENTIFYING DATA
Subject is a 40 year old former KGB Staffer who defected to the
U.S. in 1964 in Geneva.

BACKGROUND
Mr. Bruce L. Solie of the Security Research Staff has been de-
briefing and interrogating Subject since October 1967 in order to
resolve the issue whether Subject was a dispatched agent of the KGB.
He has conducted a vast amount of research and checking with sources
in an effort to establish the veracity of Subject's statements.

PURPOSE
The primary purpose of the polygraph test was to determine:
1. Whether Subject was a dispatched Agent of the KGB;
2. Whether Subject had intentionally given Mr. Solie
any false information.

PROCEDURE
Subject was given a polygraph examination on 2 August 1968 at
a safesite in the vicinity of Washington, D.C. The examination was
conducted in the English language. Subject's comprehension and the
ability to express himself in English was completely adequate for
purposes of polygraph testing. Subject was completely cooperative
in all respects. Subject displayed no evasiveness and appeared to
be completely frank whenever he was questioned or gave information
on a topic.

The following relevant questions were asked during the first test:
Is your true name Yuriy Ivanovich NOSENKO? Yes.
Were you born in the year 1927? Yes.
Besides the Americans, did you tell anyone else about your
intention to defect? No.

Did you ever tell anyone in the KGB about your contact with
American Intelligence? No.

Were you given instructions by the KGB to get in contact with
American Intelligence? No.

Were you told by the KGB to defect in order to carry out an
Intelligence mission? No.

The following relevant questions were asked during the second test:
Did the KGB actually send a communication for your recall to
the USSR on the day of your defection? No.
Were you acquainted with CHEREPANOV? Yes.
Did you actually travel to Gorkiy in November 1963 to hunt for
CHEREPANOV? Yes.
Are you deliberately withholding from us any information about
the KGB recruitment of Americans? No.
Does the KGB have METKA and NEPTUNE? Yes.
Were you the responsible Case Officer for John Abidian in 1960-61?
Yes.
Do you know the true name of ANDREY or SASHA? No.
Did you ever have tuberculosis? Yes.

The following relevant questions were asked on test three:
Did you serve in Navy Intelligence from 1951 to 1953? Yes.
Was SHUBIN in the USSR during the period 1957 to 1959? Yes.
To the best of your knowledge, were you in the Seventh
Department at this time? Yes.
Did you telephone the GRU about SHUBIN at this time? Yes.
To the best of your knowledge, was POPOV compromised because
of the letter Mr. Winters mailed? Yes.

To the best of your knowledge, was YERMAKOVSKAYA exposed to the
KGB because of the 1955 surveillance on the British Embassy?
Yes.

Was there any misleading information in the notes you brought
out from the Soviet Union? No.

Did you intentionally exaggerate your personal association with
GRIBANOV? No.

Are you hiding any adverse information about your background? No.

Subject's polygraph test reflected no significant responses indicative
of deception regarding the relevant questions asked. No further polygraph
tests were administered on this date because the examiner did not want to
run the risk of fatigue setting in and thus possibly causing adrenalin
exhaustion.

Polygraph testing was resumed on 6 August 1968. The following
relevant questions were asked on test four:

Did you join the KGB in March 1953? Yes.
Were you a KGB officer from 1953 to 1964? Yes.
Were you a Deputy Chief of the Seventh Department? Yes.
Were you only a Captain at this time? Yes.
Were you an officer in the U.S. Embassy Section from March
1953 to May 1955? Yes.
In 1958 and 1959 were you the Deputy Chief of the American-
British-Canadian Section in the Seventh Department? Yes.
From January 1960 to December 1961 were you the Deputy to the
Chief of the First Section of the First Department? Yes.
From January to July 1962 were you the Chief of the First Section
of the Seventh Department? Yes.
Were you an officer in the First Section, First Department, SCD,
at the time of the Stalingrad operation against Benson, Mule and
Stroud? Yes.

The following relevant questions were asked on test five:

Since 1953 do you know of any other KGB recruitments in the
American Embassy besides ANDREY and HOWARD? No.

Did the KGB know about the notes you brought out? No.

Have you told us the complete truth about your KGB career? Yes.

Did you intentionally exaggerate your personal involvement in
cases in 1962 and 1964 in order to mislead us? No.

Did you intentionally give us any false operational
information? No.

Did GRIBANOV offer you the position of Deputy Chief of the
First Department? Yes.

Was an order actually prepared promoting you to Deputy to the
Chief of the First Department? Yes.

In early 1960 did GRIBANOV tell you that your primary responsibility
was to work against American Code Clerks? Yes.

Other than you mentioned, are you hiding any other reasons for
your defection? No.

Are you deliberately withholding any information on any foreigners
recruited by the KGB? No.

The following relevant questions were asked on test six:

Did you enter the KGB through the influence of General BOGDAN
KOBULOV? Yes.

Did you succeed BAKHVALOV as Deputy Chief of the First Section?
Yes.

Did GRYAZNOV succeed you as Deputy Chief of the First Section?
Yes.

Were the CHEREPANOV papers passed to the Americans with KGB
knowledge? No.

To your best knowledge was there any misleading information in the
CHEREPANOV papers? No.

Did you ever personally meet GOLITSYN? No.

Was there a cable sent to Geneva for you to assist ARTEMOV
in the BELITSKIY case? Yes.

Did you personally make an approach to KEYSERS at the Moscow
Airport? Yes.

The following relevant questions were asked on test seven:
Did you actually review the KGB file on OSWALD? Yes.

Did LEE HARVEY OSWALD receive any KGB training or assignments?
No.

Were there any microphones installed in the North Wing of the
U.S. Embassy in Moscow? No.

Was the review of microphone reports one of your duties in
1960-61? Yes.

Are you withholding any information known to you concerning
KGB microphones or electronic activity against the U.S.
Embassy? No.

Before your official transfer to the Seventh Department did
you read the surveillance report on the visit of ABIDIAN
to PUSHKIN street? Yes.

Did you personally conduct a certain investigation of SHAKOV
in 1962 in Geneva? Yes.

Was the rank of Lieutenant Colonel on your travel document
to GORKIY only a mistake by KASHPEROV? Yes.

The following relevant questions were asked on test eight:

While in the U.S. Embassy Section did you obtain a typewriter
for BORODIN for the preparation of a letter to Edward Ellis
SMITH? Yes.

Did you read the official report of KOGOLAPOV on his contact
with [GARLAND] on a train from Helsinki to Moscow? Yes.

Are you intentionally withholding any information concerning
KGB knowledge of CIA personnel in Moscow? No.

Is there any possibility that the KGB would dispatch an officer
to defect to the Americans? No.

Subject's polygraph test of 6 August likewise reflected no
indications of deception.

CONCLUSION
Based solely on the overall analysis of Subject's polygraph
tests, it is the opinion of the undersigned that the Subject has
been substantially truthful in answering the relevant questions
asked.

---

14-00000
SECRET

III. ANALYTICAL COMMENTS CONCERNING THE BONA FIDES
OF YURIY IVANOVICH NOSENKO

---

14-00000
SECRET

ANALYTICAL COMMENTS CONCERNING THE BONA FIDES OF
YURIY IVANOVICH NOSENKO

As indicated in the introduction to this summary, information in
regard to Yuriy Ivanovich NOSENKO will be considered against an arbi-
trary but realistic list of areas considered pertinent to the question of
whether NOSENKO voluntarily defected to this Agency without KGB
knowledge, and whether his 1962 and early 1964 contacts with represent-
atives of this Agency were known to the KGB.

It was noted that motivation and certain other pertinent aspects
would also be considered but that his admitted previous lies and exag-
gerations would not per se warrant a conclusion that NOSENKO is not a
"bona fide defector."

The following is a list of the areas considered pertinent and which
are being given specific consideration. Attached is a separate section
containing remarks in regard to the designated areas of A - H.

A. Is NOSENKO identical to the person whom he claims to be?
B. Is the claimed KGB career of NOSENKO plausible?
SECRET

---

14-00000

C. Has NOSENKO given an acceptable explanation of his motivation in contacting CIA in 1962 and for his defection in 1964?

D. Is the information furnished by NOSENKO to CIA concerning KGB operations, personalities, and organization reasonably commensurate with his claimed KGB career?

E. Can the information furnished by NOSENKO be considered in toto as having resulted in material damage to the KGB and/or has the information furnished by NOSENKO been of significant benefit to Western Intelligence?

F. Is there evidence of KGB deception or "give away" in information furnished by NOSENKO which would warrant a conclusion that NOSENKO was dispatched by the KGB?

G. Is there evidence of a political or any other type objective which could justify a dispatch of NOSENKO by the KGB with permission to speak freely to CIA concerning his knowledge of the KGB and without NOSENKO being given a specific mission or missions?

---

14-00000

H. Is there any evidence that the contacts of NOSENKO in 1962 or in 1964 with CIA were known to the KGB prior to his defection or that NOSENKO was ever briefed by the KGB relative to his behavior or KGB objectives during these contacts or after his defection?

---

14-00000
SECRET

A. IS NOSENKO IDENTICAL TO THE PERSON WHOM HE CLAIMS TO BE?

---

14-00000
SECRET

A. Is NOSENKO identical to the person whom he claims to be?
During interviews NOSENKO has furnished detailed information in regard
to his family, his activities as a youth, the schools he attended, assoc-
iates of his father and mother, and his own associates. The period
under consideration in this section is the period preceding his entry
into the First Department, Second Chief Directorate, MVD, in mid-
March 1953.

Information furnished by NOSENKO concerning his father and
mother and his early life, together with other information such as a
comparison of photographs of NOSENKO and a photograph of his father
and confirmed travel of his mother to Western Europe in 1956 with
Madame KOSYGINA, conclusively establish that he is Yuriy Ivanovich
NOSENKO, the son of Ivan Isidorovich NOSENKO, the Minister of Ship-
building in the USSR prior to his death in 1956. This is also satisfactorily
supported by personal-type information furnished by NOSENKO concern-
ing other associates of his father and mother.

Since, as indicated above, there is considered to be no doubt
that Yuriy Ivanovich NOSENKO is the son of the former Minister of
Shipbuilding, a detailed study of his life prior to 1945 (age 18) is of

little or no value in assessing the bona fides or non-bona fides of
NOSENKO. An expose of his youthful indiscretions, of which he has
admitted a number, is of no import in a discussion of whether NOSENKO
was or was not dispatched by the KGB. Obtaining any collateral first-
hand information in regard to NOSENKO before 1945 would be of
negligible value, but there actually is supporting information from
Nikolay ARTAMONOV, a defector from the Soviet Navy, concerning
the claimed attendance by NOSENKO at a military-naval preparatory
school in Leningrad.

NOSENKO, during current interviews, has stated that he grad-
uated from the Institute of International Relations in 1950 and had
attended the Institute since 1945. He has explained that he should have
graduated in 1949 since it was a four-year course, but failed the final
examination in Marxism and therefore was required to attend the Institute
for a longer period of time and again take his final examinations.

Based on information furnished by NOSENKO concerning co-
students and the Institute, there is no reason to doubt that he actually
attended and graduated from the Institute of International Relations in
1950. The previous controversy in this matter was complicated by
NOSENKO who, in 1964 after his defection, stated in a biography that
he had graduated from the Institute in 1949. Actually this statement

by NOSENKO in 1964 resulted in conflicting information since NOSENKO
on 9 June 1962 during his first contact with CIA had stated that he
"completed the Institute of International Relations in 1950." NOSENKO
has given the explanation that he changed the date of his graduation to
1949 because he did not wish to admit that he had failed to graduate in
1949. NOSENKO explained that this change in his date of graduation
caused him to pre-date his actual entry into Navy Intelligence to 1950
instead of 1951 and his actual entry into the KGB from 1953 to 1952.
The above action by NOSENKO is included in what NOSENKO has
characterized as his "stupid blunders." The latter is a rather apt
characterization of his now admitted lies and exaggerations but is not
evidence that NOSENKO was dispatched by the KGB. It is evidence of
a certain personality trait of NOSENKO who has in the past by his own
admission tended to enhance his importance and astuteness by graphically
portraying his personal participation in KGB activities concerning which
he had knowledge but did not personally participate.

The claimed service of NOSENKO in Navy Intelligence during
March 1951 to early 1953 in the Far East and the Baltic areas has been
seriously questioned in the past. Specific comments on this period of

time are contained in a separate section of this summary, but it is
considered that the recent interviews of NOSENKO satisfactorily sub-
stantiate his claimed service in Navy Intelligence during March 1951
to early 1953.

Attached is a typed copy of a handwritten memorandum completed
by NOSENKO on 31 October 1967. This is a biographical statement con-
cerning his life and KGB career. No effort has been made to correct
grammatical errors or spelling since to do so would be in conflict with
the manner in which current interviews were conducted; namely, to give
NOSENKO an opportunity to recount his life and activities to permit a re-
examination of the entire case. The comprehension and fluency of
NOSENKO in the English language was adequate for interview purposes
in October 1967 and both have materially improved since that time.

Interviews of and memoranda prepared by NOSENKO since
31 October 1967 have not indicated any material discrepancies with the
statements of NOSENKO in the attached memorandum. One change that
has been made by NOSENKO is that he now dates his transfer from the
First Department, Second Chief Directorate (SCD), KGB, to the Seventh
Department, SCD, as occurring in the latter part of May 1955 rather
than June - July 1955 as indicated in the attached statement. NOSENKO
also now dates the period in which an unsatisfactory "characterization"

(personnel evaluation) was prepared on NOSENKO in March - April
1955 rather than May - June 1955. Since the unsatisfactory personnel
report was directly related to his transfer to the Seventh Department,
neither of the above changes are considered to be of a significant nature.
An effort has been made during current interviews to differentiate between
errors due to faulty memory and discrepancies indicative of deception by
NOSENKO.

Attachment:
31 Oct 67 Memo

---

14-00000
Operational Memo # N-2
SUBJECT: NOSENKO, Yuri Ivanovich

The following is a typed copy of a handwritten memorandum
furnished by Subject on 31 October 1967, following a request on
30 October 1967:

I, NOSENKO, George, was born 30 October 1927 in the city
Nicolaev, Ukraine.

My family: the father - NOSENKO, Ivan, b. 1902, was working
at the shipbuilding plant and studied at the shipbuilding institute, which
he finished in 1928; the mother - NOSENKO, Tamara (nee MARKOVSKI),
b. 1908, a housewife; the brother - NOSENKO, Vladimir, b. 1944, a
student.

In September 1934 I began to study in the school (0 class) but
studied a short period of time because in October with the mother went
in Leningrad where the father was working at the shipbuilding plant,
"Sudsmech" from summer 1934. In Nicolaev I was living at the Street
Nicolski 7. All relatives of my family were living also in Nicolaev.

In Leningrad I was living with parents in three places till 1938:
at the Street Stachek (1934 - summer 1935), St.. Canal of Griboedov,
154 (1935-1938), St. M. Gorky (short period in 1938). From 1935 till

1938 I studied at the schools, which were close to my places of living.
In 1938 the father began to work in Moscow and soon I with the mother
went to live in Moscow in the end of this year.

In Moscow we were living at the St. Serafimovich, 2. Here
I was continuing to study at the school 585 (St. B. Polianka). In 1941
I finished 6th class and went with parents to rest to the south (Sochi)
but soon began the war and we returned in Moscow.

In October 1941 I with my mother went in the evacuation in
Cheliabinsk (Ural), where I finished 7th class in spring 1942. In
Cheliabinsk I lived in the poselok ChTZ, being there I tried to run to
the front with my playfellow BUSKO, but we were caught and returned
home. In 1942 (summer) I went with the mother in city Gorki and in
July-August we returned in Moscow.

In August I entered in the Moscowite military-navy special
school, which was evacuated in Kuibyshev, where I finished 8th class
in summer 1943 and after that I arrived on a leave in Moscow. This
school must be evacuated from Kuibyshev in Achinsk (Siberia) and I
did not want to go there. With the help of father I was accepted in the
Baku's military-navy preparatory school and in August went in Baku,
where I was studying at the second course (9th class). In this school
I twice tried to be sent as a volunteer to the front but failed. Soon

after that I run with a friend (RADCHENKO) home in Moscow (January
1944). In Moscow I studied at the courses (Russian word), finished
9th class and was accepted again in the military-navy preparatory
school, which was located in Leningrad. In August of 1944 I went in
Leningrad.

All cadets of this school were sent to forest (about 200 km.
from Leningrad) to prepare wood for winter, where we have been two
months. In November I wounded by chance the left hand and was put
in the navy hospital. When I was in the hospital I decided not to return
in the school but to finish 10th class in Leningrad about what I have
written a letter to my father asking his help and agreement with such
my decision. With the help of the father's friends I quited with the school
and entered in the shipbuilding college on the second course in January
1945 and studied there till the end of May. The WWII finished and I
decided to return to Moscow. The director of the shipbuilding college
had given me a document that I studied in this college at the second
course and finished this course (though I was not passing exams). In
Leningrad I was living in the hostel of this college (St. Tolmachev).

In May 1945 I arrived in Moscow and was living with parents
(St. Granovski, 3).

In summer 1945 there was created the institute of the inter-
national relations in Moscow and in July I entered in this institute.
In July my father went in Germany with the group of engineers
and he took me (I received a temporary rank of a senior lieutenant,
documents and a uniform).

In 1945-1950 I studied at the institute. In 1946 I acquainted
with a girl-Shishkov FLAVIA, student of the medicine institute. I
was in close relations with this girl, because of the pregnancy i married
her and she made an abort. My parents were against the marriage and
we did not live together and we soon divorced. In the end of 1948 I was
acquainted with Telegin AUGUSTINE and was going to marry her, re-
ceived a flat in 1947 (St.. Mira former 1st Uecyehckad, 162/174). In
November her father, General TELEGIN, was arrested, but I married
her. The marriage was not successful. I foundout about her close
relations with the brother, and the child-girl was born with pathological
changes. I was not the father of this child. After that I broke with her
and we were living separately (end of 1948 - beginning 1949).

In spring 1950 before state exams in the institute was working
the commission, which was deal ing with future works. of the students of
my 5th course. I expressed a wish to work in any military organization

and soon I was invited to visit personnel department of MGB (Ministry
of State Security). But MGB did not accept me. After that with the
help of the father I began to deal with the personnel department of the
intelligence of the ministry of military navy concerning my future work.

Passing state exams I failed Marxism-Leninism and with a
group of fails I was passing state exams once more. In October 1950
I finished the institute and received a diploma.

I was accepted in the navy intelligence in the 13 of March 1951
and in March 17 went by a train to Soviet Harbour (intelligence of 7th
Fleet, as an interpreter of the information department). Before going
to the Far East I began my divorce with the former wife.

At the end of April 1952 I went on a leave in Moscow. Immediately
after returning in Moscow I had a blood cough out. In the middle of May
I went to a tuberculous sanatorium not far from Moscow. In July I
finished my treatment and returned in Moscow. Because of the health
I could not return back to the Far East and the personnel department of
the navy intelligence sent me to Baltic Sea (as a senior interpreter of
the navy intelligence point of the intelligence of 4th Fleet in Sovietsk,
Kaliningrad's district).

When I studied at the institute I as all the students received a
rank of junior