‘ioa-10078-10973
104-10075-10373 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DIRECTOR
SECRET

A. WAVE 7590 (IN 616612)
B. WAVE 7591 (IN 64066)
C. WAVE 7793 (IN 64001)
D. WAVE 7860 (IN 64931)
E. WAVE 7861 (IN 65964)
F. WAVE 7964 (IN 65964)
G. WAVE 8116 (INE)ard
H. WAVE 8117 (IN 65249)
I. WAVE 8115 (IN 67281)
J. WAVE 8134 (IN 67356)
K. WAVE 8140 (IN 67664)
L. WAVE 8262 (IN 69684)

NIC ATHENA PET COS COMM.
COP, ADOP, RI/AN DURRAY, 0/0 2/VR

ROUTING
71784

70. FOL IS TRANSLATION OF REFS:
71. RECEIVED MESSAGE 34. RUBEN RECOMMENDS JOSE
SCAN41 F2 CANTO BECAUSE HE WAS A SERGEANT IN THE OLD ARMY AND KNOWS HOW
TO HANDLE DIFFERENT WEAPONS AND SOME EXPLOSIVES. FARON AND MARIO ARE
TO US WHAT PICTURES OF MARIO YOU WANT. THE ONE THAT
DOIMEADIOS RECOMMENDS FOR INTELLIGENCE IS CRESTE TAMAYO MUNOS.

--- Page 2 ---

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
IN X17 PAGE:

AT THE SCHOOL OF COMMERCE. I WILL CONTACT RENE THROUGH
DOIMEADIOS SAYS THAT CAMAY RECOMMENDS FOR INTELLIGENCE.
71. CONTINUATION. MEDARDO SILVA MARRERO, BORN IN HOLGUIN,
OCTOBER 1927. LIVES LOS MOSCONES NEIGHBORHOOD. SON
OF MAA AND ALTA GRACIA. WORKS IN THE ASIALT PLANT LOCATED IN THE
HOLGUIN MILITIA AIRPORT.
72. RECEIVED MESSAGE 35. WILL SEND BIO DATA ON RENE BEFORE
CONTACT WITH HIM. ROBERTO ZAYAS WILL WORK IN THE ACTION CELL.
THE LOCATION OF THE HOUSE NEAREST THE POINT, IT IS MORE THAN
THREE KILOMETERS AWAY. THE POINT CAN BE REACHED BY A SECONDARY
ROAD. THERE ARE NO PATROLS NOR OBSERVATION POSTS NEAR, THE NEAREST ONE
IS 10 KILOMETERS. TELL US WHEN YOU CAN HAVE A RE-SUPPLY OPERATION.
OBJECTIVES, DATA SENT BY MAN ON NEXT TRANCKTEST.
73. WILL SEND SOME DETAILS OF OBJECTIVES CHOSEN.
BIOGRAPHIC DATA ON RENE (CRUZ RAMON), BORN IN VICTORIA
ON 23 MAY 1923.
LIVES IN HITAM SANTANA 100 WHERE WE
IS A PAPER MAKER. SON OF ROBERTO AND MANUELA, MARRIED TO
CRUZ VELAZQUEZ? HAS ONE DAUGHTER NAMED ANAVELA.
DOIMEADIOS TELLS ME THAT RUBEN RECOMMENDS ROBERTO LECON PING
HE WAS BORN IN HO CHIN.
74. CONTINUATION, BORN ON 22 APRIL 1932 LIVES ON
12. WORKS IN THE ELECTRIC PLANT OF HOLGUIN. RAPID INYECT?
5-6 PEOPLE IS NECESSARY.
75. AGUILAR MAS RECOMMENDED TO ME FOR ACTION AGENT.

--- Page 3 ---

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
IN 717841 PAGE

PADRE RAMON DANIEL VALDES LEON NATIVE OF HAVANA. BORN 21 JUNE 1915.
SON OF HERIBERTO AND TERESA, MARRIED TO LINA PACHECO RONDON.
LIVES IN BATEY, CHAPARRA REPARTO MIRAMAR, PUERTO PADRE. WORKS AS MALE NURSE.
THIS MAN CONTROLS LARGE NUMBER OF PEOPLE IN THE ZONE.
76. RECEIVED MESSAGE 36. DOIMEADIOS TELLS ME THAT RUBEN
RECOMMENDS FOR ACTION ALFREDO DIAZ GONZALEZ BORN IN MANZANILLO. BORN
19 OCTOBER 1916. SON OF MANUEL AND TOMACA. WORKS AS CHIEF OF THE
EQUIPMENT WORKSHOPS OF THE OBRAS PUBLICAS (PUBLIC WORKS).
SENAL FERIA, 193. CONTINUES.
77. CONTINUATION. RUPEN ALSO RECOMMENDS LEONARDO (PUPO)
BORN IN HOLGUIN. SON OF FRANCISCO AND MARIA. BORN ON 23 AUGUST
1939. LIVES IN THE EXTENSION OF PERALTA 36, HARLEM SECTION. WORKS ON CARGO
SHIFT OF HIGHWAY TRANSPORTATION (SIC). I NEED PESOS, TELL US IF YOU CAN
MAKE ANOTHER CACHE. WE ARE RECRUITING ACTION PERSONNEL IN HIDDEN PLACES.
SENT REPORTS ON TARGETS ON 17 NOVEMBER. CONTINUATION.
78. CONTINUATION. TELL ME WHAT OTHER TYPE OF INFORMATION
YOU NEED ON THE TANK PARK I REPORTED. I WILL ORDER AGUILAR TO INVEST-
IGATE WHO LIVES AT PUNTO TOPATE. THE EXPLOSIVE MATERIAL I WILL USE AS
SELECTED TARGETS. THE OTHER MATERIAL WILL BE BURIED. THE SUPPLIES WILL BE
CARRIED IN THE TRUCK OF MAP TO TORUZ Q. THE EXPLOSIVES WERE DEPOSITED
(SIC) IN THE FARM OF MILET. COORDINATES 584272, MAP SHEET 4975 IV.

--- Page 4 ---

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
IN 71784
PAGE

MAP SHEET 4978 IV IS SURROUNDED BY BARBED WIRE FENCE. ONLY
GUARD ARMED WITH A SOVIET PPSH WEAPON. IT IS IN A SENTRY BOX WITH
PHONE LOCATED IN FRONT OF THE AGUAS CLARAS AND UNAS HIGHWAYS JUNCTION
THERE ARE SEVERAL ANTI-AIRCRAFT INSTALLED ON A HILL AT NORTH, NOT BEING AL-
BLE TO DETERMINE WHAT TYPE. THE AREA OF ALL THE CAMP IS APPROXIMATELY 1
KILOMETER, THE AREA OCCUPIED BY THE TANKS IS ABOUT 1240 METERS
TANKS SEEM TO BE T-54 S.
88. RECEIVED MESSAGE 36. DOIMEADIOS TELLS ME THAT CAMAY
RECOMMENDS FOR THE INTELLIGENCE CELL TRANIN ROGERTO MAIO INO, MIRA NO.
IN MATANZAS, SON OF ROBERTO AND TERESA. BORN ON 16 SEPT 1918.
LIVES TO INES FERIA. HAS TWO CHILDREN, ROBERTO AND INES. THIS MAN WAS
CHIEF OF THE RURAL CORPS DURING THE PRIO GOVERNMENT. HE WAS THEN PRIVATE
INVESTIGATOR FOR SEARS AND OTHER COMMERCIAL AND BANKING FIRMS.
THE SITUATION ONE THESE PEOPLE IS NECESSARY.
89. RECEIVED MESSAGE 37. CONTACT IN VICTORIA WOULD BE REM
RAMO. RENE HAS BEEN KNOWN TO ME FOR SOME YEARS THROUGH HIS
FELIPE CRUZ COLON, DELICIA FARM. ALCO RINE WAS IN
COMPANY IN PUERTO PADRE. IN VICTORIA RENE WORKS WITH UP. OF
LAWYER IN VICTORIA. TRYING TO INVESTIGATE SCHOOLS ATTENDED.
PROVIDE SOME MONEY EXPENSES ARE VERY HIGH HERE.
90. COMMENT: PLS INDEX FOR WAVE FILES WITH LECED
INFORMATION RECEIVED FROM GOC COMPILE AGENT, VALID
INFORMATION CANNOT BE DETERMINED.
