```markdown
14-00000

[2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

MEXICAN PHASE OF THE REVOLUTION
FLD INDEX ONLY

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

SECRET

EXTRACT AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION
DATE OF DOC.: 13 Sept
FILE CLASSIFICATION OF RECORD COPY
DOC. SUBJECT: Results of Our Survey of Cuban Assets
SOURCE CRYPTONYM:
SOURCE INFORMATION

1. COS Lima did well to raise the question as to what will happen, vis a vis our operational security, when the Cubans achieve diplomatic recognition in the various Latin American countries where this is gradually occurring. The responses from the Branches indicate that we do have a considerable amount of operational activity and equity that revolve around our Cuban assets and that we would do well to begin a gradual cut-back in our use of Cubans, given the targetting that we presume will be made on them as the Cuban CI effort begins in the various countries.

2. However, the solution to our problem should be a gradual one and keyed initially to where the official Cuban presence is, and then to those countries where it is coming. Therefore we start with Peru.

b. GICITRON-4, who has been Treasurer of the 26th of July movement in the period 1957-58 provides the cover for LITHGOE.

Indicate The Subject, Project Or 201 File No. In Which This Form Is To Be Filed.
SUBJECT OF 201 (Last, First, Middle): GICITRON-4

FORM 867 PREVIOUS EDITIONS OBSOLETE

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

SECRET
15 August 1972

MEMORANDUM FOR: WH/FI
SUBJECT: GICITRON-4

a. GICITRON-4

b. Subject is used by the Bogota Station to provide cover, status and funds for an operation handled by Errol R. LITHGOE, also a Cuban, who is nominally Subject's partner in the business enterprise.

c. Cuban

d. Legitimate businessman who was formerly in Mexico and now manages a Mexican business firm in Bogota.

e. Resident alien of Colombia.

f. Subject has received no training in clandestine operations, though he was involved in several clandestine Cuban activities while treasurer of the 26th of July Movement during 1957-58.

g. Since Subject provides cover for LITHGOE, he is not required to utilize any tradecraft. Having his own company provides for adequate cover.

Due to his position, Subject is probably well-known in the Cuban community, but he performs no operational tasks.

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES:

SECRET

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

INDEX
NO INDEX RETURN TO BRANCH
FILE RID
FILE IN CS FILE NO.

CITE DIRECTOR

BOGOTA 71572 21 172

DIF 35

1. HAS ATTEMPTING ASSESS THREAT GROWING PBRUMEN DIFI PRESENCE IN HEMISPHERE CREATES FOR EKTRUST EMPLOYED FORUMEN ASSETS.

2. HAS RECORDS SHOW ERROL A. LYTHGOE, REGINALD M. DACIEK, GICITRON-4 AND GICITRON-5 IN BOGOTA PLS INDICATE IF STATION HAS ADDITIONAL PBRUMEN ASSETS WE UNAWARE OF, OR OTHERS WHOSE FILES SHOULD BE REVIEWED.

3. DOES GICITRON-5 CONTINUE WORK FOR LYTHGOE ANY CAPACITY? FILE 17-320-21. EX-2, APDIR, UN-SISM.

END OF MESSAGE

HAS COMMENT: BASED ON MEMORANDUM, "SURVEY OF CUBAN EXILE ASSETS," DATED 25 JULY 1972, C/UH/FI.

C/WH/FI

THEODORE G. SHACKLEY
C/WHD

RELEASING OFFICER

APPROVAL OF DIRECTOR.

WARNING NOTICE: SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICERS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATING:

COPY NO.

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000

Chief of Station, Bogota

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

GICITRON-4 (201-267298)

REFERENCE: HLBA-12320, 10 November 1970

Operational Approval was granted on 8 February 1971 for the use of GICITRON-4 as requested in Reference.

Ernest A. PUKALA

2 - COS/Bogota
1 - RID
1 - WH/3/C (Chrono)

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000

SECRET

No. 201-267298

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH/3/C - P. Kaylor

Operational Approval is hereby granted in the case of GICITRON/4 for the purpose specified in your request dated as follows: As outlined in Section VI (4) of Part II (undated).

This Approval is based upon evaluation of information available to this Office, and is granted under authority contained in CSI and CSI-F 10-5.

/S/ John E. Howard
CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION
Date: 8 February 1971

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000

SECRET
2 February 1971

MEMORANDUM FOR: CI/OA
ATTENTION: Mr. Lally
SUBJECT: GICITRON-4 (201-267298)

REFERENCE: Form 889, dated 19 January 1971

The information on GICITRON-4 contained in DBF-9745, 16 September 1958, was located and reviewed. The information is considered non-derogatory by this Desk. It duplicated information already in Subject's 201.

Pattie S. Kaylor
WH/3/Colombia

DISTRIBUTION:
Orig & 1 - Addressee
1 - 201 File
1 - 1.1 Chrono

PSKaylor:WH/3/C:blb (2 February 1971)

--- Page 8 ---

14-00000

SECRET
1 February 1971

TO: C/WH/3/C P. Kaylor
FROM: CHIEF, CI/OA
/S/ John B. Howard

SUBJECT: GICITRON/4 (201-267288)

IN ORDER THAT FURTHER CONSIDERATION MAY BE GIVEN YOUR REQUEST FOR APPROVAL IN THIS CASE, IT IS REQUESTED THAT YOU FURNISH THIS OFFICE THE INFORMATION CHECKED BELOW, OR REVIEW INFORMATION AS INDICATED.

REVIEW OF Staff/D DOSSIER
REVIEW OF Staff/D COLLATERAL INFORMATION
REVIEW OF SECURITY OFF. REPORT AT CI/OA
REVIEW OF SEC. OFF. CONCURRENCE MEMO AT CI/OA
REVIEW OF FOI REPORT AT CI/OA
REVIEW OF ATTACHED REFERENCE
OTHERS (See Remarks)

Please locate and review FBI data re Rafael Mario LLERENA Rodriguez, sent to this Agency on 8-21-58, p. 1.

Please forward your analysis as to whether this information is derogatory or non-derogatory.

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000

SECRET
19 January 1971

TO: C/WH/3/Col. P. Kaylor
FROM: CHIEF, CI/OA
/S/ John E. Howard

SUBJECT: GICITRON/4 (201-267298)

IN ORDER THAT FURTHER CONSIDERATION MAY BE GIVEN YOUR REQUEST FOR APPROVAL IN THIS CASE, IT IS REQUESTED THAT YOU FURNISH THIS OFFICE THE INFORMATION CHECKED BELOW, OR REVIEW INFORMATION AS INDICATED.

REVIEW OF Staff's DOSSIER
REVIEW OF STAFF/D COLLATERAL INFORMATION
REVIEW OF SECURITY OFF. REPORT AT CI/OA
REVIEW OF SEC. OFF. CONCURRENCE MEMO AT CI/OA
REVIEW OF FOI REPORT AT CI/OA
REVIEW OF ATTACHED REFERENCE
OTHERS (See Remarks)

Please locate and review FBI data re Rafael Mario LLERENA Rodriguez, sent to this Agency on 8-21-58, p. 1.

Please forward your analysis as to whether this information is derogatory or non-derogatory.

DBF 9745, 16 Sept 58, 100-2-18. Located in Llerena's 201-215431.

--- Page 10 ---

14-00000

SECRET

DOCUMENT SERVICE REQUEST
12 Jan 1971

TO: RID/FILES
KAYLOR PATTI GG-196
WH/3/CO 382627
EXT. 5269 TUBE BS4

1. Use this form to request files and/or documents from RID FILES. (Not to be used in lieu of Form 362.)
2. Include badge number and tube station. A "FROM" block if need label has not been
3. Indicate type of charge: Temporary or Permanent
4. Indicate source of reference: Document reference from RID/Index or Document reference from source other than PID Index.

SUBJECT: LLERENA Rodriguez, Rafael Mario
FBI Report
DOCUMENT DATE: 21 August 1958
DOCUMENT SYMBOL AND NUMBER: DBF-9745

--- Page 11 ---

14-00000

SECRET
18 December 1970

TO: C/WH/3/Col. - P. Kaylor
FROM: CHIEF, CI/OA
/S/ John E. Howard

SUBJECT: GICITRON/4 (201-267298)

IN ORDER THAT FURTHER CONSIDERATION MAY BE GIVEN YOUR REQUEST FOR APPROVAL IN THIS CASE, IT IS REQUESTED THAT YOU FURNISH THIS OFFICE THE INFORMATION CHECKED BELOW, OR REVIEW INFORMATION AS INDICATED.

REVIEW OF STAFF/D DOSSIER
REVIEW OF Staff/D COLLATERAL INFORMATION
REVIEW OF SECURITY OFF. REPORT AT CI/OA
REVIEW OF SEC. OFF. CONCURRENCE MEMO AT CI/OA
REVIEW OF FOI REPORT AT CI/DA
REVIEW OF ATTACHED REFERENCE
OTHERS (See Remarks)

Please locate and review FBI data re Rafael Mario LLERENA Rodriguez, sent to this Agency on 8-21-58, p. 1.

Please forward your analysis as to whether this information is derogatory or non-derogatory.

--- Page 12 ---

14-00000

SECRET

Acting Chief of Station, Bogota

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

GICITRON-4 (201-267298)

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

ACTION: Process for OA
REF: HLBS-2641, 28 October 1970

Forwarded herewith are three copies of Subject's updated PRQ Part II as requested in Reference.

Orrin K. BANASIAK

DISTRIBUTION:
Chief, WHD w/att h/w

--- Page 13 ---

14-00000

SECRET

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE
PART II - OPERATIONAL INFORMATION

INSTRUCTIONS TO CASE OFFICER

1. This form must be filled in by the case officer or appropriate authority on the basis of the best available information. It is not to be shown to the subject.

2. Normally, headquarters will be unable to issue an approval unless requester furnishes answers to all questions in PRQ parts I and II. However, in an emergency provisional approval may be obtained by complying with the applicable provisions of FR 10-219, paragraphs 60, 8, 12b and 12d. Thereafter the usual method to document of complete the case must be followed as set forth in FR 10-215.

3. Three (3) completed copies of PRQ part 1 (including copy in subject's handwriting, if possible) and two (2) completed copies of this form must be sent to headquarters as soon as possible.

4. Data acquired later must be sent to headquarters in PRQ form in two (2) copies.

5. Fill in all items, if information obtainable. If item not applicable write "NA." If additional space required for item, use reverse side of page keyed to appropriate item number.

SECTION I
1. CRYPTONYM: GICITRON-4 (Originally LITAHIL-1)
2. PSEUDONYM:

CONTACT AND DEVELOPMENT

1. INDICATE HOW, WHEN, WHERE, WHY, AND BY WHOM SUBJECT WAS FIRST CONTACTED OR DEVELOPED. First contacted by Mexico Station CO Clyde SHRYOCK (ps) on 21 Oct 59 (MEXI-4554). SHRYOCK visited Subject's business office and presented self as a "friend" of Gustavo ARCOS Bergnes, who at that time was Cuban Ambassador in Brussels, Belgium and a former contact of SHRYOCK while ARCOS was in Mexico prior to 1959. Purpose of meeting was to assess Subject's attitude towards the Castro regime. Subject was subsequently utilized by Mexico City Station to assist in coordinating anti-Castro activities. Bogota Station contact with Subject established in 1970 through Station Contract Agent under non-official cover, Errol R. LYTHGOE. GICITRON-4 and LYTHGOE are long-time friends and preformed operational tasks for JKLANCE when both werer Mexico City assets.

2. INDICATE WHETHER SUBJECT COULD BE TURNED OVER QUICKLY AND IN A SECURE MANNER TO ANY RESPONSIBLE CASE OFFICER FOR HANDLING. IF SO. INDICATE TO WHOM.
Subject could be turned over to any Spanish speaking Case Officer.

3. LIST OTHER CASE OFFICERS WHO HAVE HANDLED SUBJECT OR WHOM HE KNOWS OR HAS KNOWN. GIVE NAMES BY WHICH THEY HAVE BEEN KNOWN.
None.

--- Page 14 ---

14-00000

SECRET

SECTION II
MOTIVATION AND CONTROL

1. ESTIMATE SUBJECT'S MOTIVATION. (Be detailed, if possible cite evidence. Do not use stock comment such as "anti-communist.")
Subject became disillusioned with the Castro regime early in 1959 because of the communist infiltration in the Cuban revolution. Subject is strongly anti-communist and anti-Castro and thus willing to lend his services to combat these regimes.

2. INDICATE WHAT CONTROL, IF ANY, EXISTS OVER THE SUBJECT. (If no control, or if there is a lack of real control explain.)
Except long-time relations between Subject and Errol R. LYTHGOE, No actual control exists over Subject.

SECTION III
COVER

1. COVER USED BY SUBJECT AND CASE OFFICER IN THEIR MEETINGS. NA
2. COVER USED BY SUBJECT IN OBTAINING HIS INFORMATION AND IN CONTACTING HIS INFORMANTS. NA
3. INDICATE SERVICE FOR WHICH SUBJECT THINKS HE (Will work) (Is working). Subject presumably knows he is cooperating with JKLANCE

SECTION IV
INTELLIGENCE CONNECTIONS AND TRAINING

1. EXPLAIN SUBJECT'S KNOWN PAST OR PRESENT CONNECTION WITH ANY OTHER INTELLIGENCE SERVICE. INDICATE THE EXTENT SUCH CONNECTION IS KNOWN OVERTLY.
Subject is not known to have worked for any intelligence service.

2. LIST OTHER INDIVIDUALS (Agents, relatives, friends) WHO KNOW OF SUBJECT'S PRESENT INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.
None.

3. EXPLAIN ANY TRAINING SUBJECT HAS HAD IN CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS.
None. However, Subject was involved in several Cuban clandestine movements while treasurer of the 26th of July Movement during 1957-58.

SECTION V
COLLABORATION POTENTIAL

1. INDICATE OTHER FOREIGN POWER SUBJECT WOULD BE MOST LIKELY TO COLLABORATE WITH BECAUSE OF HIS IDEOLOGY OR PAST ASSOCIATIONS. EXPLAIN.
None.

--- Page 15 ---

14-00000

SECRET

SECTION VI
OPERATIONAL USE - CONTACT

1. IF SUBJECT HAS BEEN USED OR CONTACTED BEFORE, INDICATE ACTIVITY IN WHICH HE WAS ENGAGED AND THE TYPE OF INFORMATION HE HAS FURNISHED.
In 1960 Subject was utilized by the Mexico City Station to assist in the coordination of anti-Castro activities as part of the XX AMWAIL operation. Subject was rated a reliable source by the Mexico City Station.

2. INDICATE HOW AND FROM WHOM SUBJECT OBTAINS INFORMATION. NA
3. INDICATE WHAT HAS BEEN TOLD SUBJECT AS TO THE DISPOSITION OF INFORMATION HE FURNISHES. NA

4. DETAIL SUBJECT'S FI OR CI TYPE USE OR DUTIES.
Subject is used by the Bogota Station to provide cover for status and funds for an operation handled by Errol R. Lythgoe who is Subject's nominal partner in the enterprise.

5. DETAIL SUBJECT'S PROPOSED PP-PM TYPE USE OR DUTIES. NA

SECTION VII
PROPOSED LIAISON OR OPERATIONAL ACTIVITY

1. DETAIL SUBJECT'S PROPOSED LIAISON TYPE CONTACT OR OPERATIONAL USE:
WHERE SUBJECT IS AN OFFICIAL MEMBER OF A FOREIGN GOVERNMENT: NA
WHERE SUBJECT IS AN OFFICIAL OF ANOTHER AGENCY OF THIS GOVERNMENT: NA

SECTION VIII
AGENCY RELATIONSHIP WITH SUBJECT

EXPLAIN NATURE OF AGENCY RELATIONSHIP WITH SUBJECT. I.E. TRAINEE, OPPOSITE NUMBER, REMUNERATION, IF ANY: AGENCY PERSONNEL KNOWN TO SUBJECT.
Subject is an unpaid field agent of JKLANCE.

--- Page 16 ---

14-00000

SECRET

SECTION IX
QUALIFICATIONS FOR OTHER OPERATIONS

1. INDICATE SPECIAL ABILITIES, TALENTS, OR QUALIFICATIONS POSSESSED BY SUBJECT WHICH COULD CONCEIVABLY BE OF VALUE FOR OTHER OPERATIONS.
Subject has been in Latin America for a number of years during which time he has numerous contacts and friends.

SECTION X
COMMITMENTS

1. IF IT IS PROPOSED TO PAY SUBJECT A REGULAR SALARY, INDICATE THE WEEKLY AMOUNT. IF PAYMENT TO BE MADE IN EXCHANGE COMMODITIES, SUBSIDY & OTHER METHOD, SPECIFY AND GIVE DETAILS.
Subject is not paid salary by the Station.

2. EXPLAIN ANY PROMISES, OTHERWISE NOT COVERED HEREIN, MADE TO SUBJECT. (Example: Commitments regarding evacuation of subject and family.)
None

SECTION XI
CE AND SECURITY

1. INDICATE THE FIELD AGENCIES AND FIELD FILES WITH WHICH SUBJECT'S NAME HAS BEEN CHECKED AND THE RESULTS.
Mexico City Station files have been checked re Subject.

2. INDICATE OTHER INVESTIGATIVE MEASURES TAKEN TO VERIFY BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION FURNISHED BY SUBJECT.
None.

3. INDICATE WHETHER PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL OR OPERATIONAL APPROVAL FOR SUBJECT'S USE HAS BEEN PREVIOUSLY OBTAINED.
Operational Approval DATE APPROVAL OBTAINED: 6 June 1960

4. EVALUATE SUBJECT'S CHARACTER RELIABILITY AND SECURITY.
Subject is an exile Cuban businessman with a "strong" Character who is highly respected in the Bogota business community. Subject is an independent thinker and not easily manipulated.

5. EXPLAIN ANY SITUATION OR INDISCRETION IN WHICH SUBJECT MAY HAVE BEEN INVOLVED WHICH MUST BE EVALUATED FROM A CE/OPERATIONAL SECURITY VIEWPOINT. In 1960 Mexico Station CO Clyde K. SHRYOCK and Subject met several times in his business office. While at the office a Cuban representative, Ricardo VIDAL Dominguels, saw SHRYOCK and on 2 occasions talked with the CO. At the time Subject felt VIDAL would not talk about these contacts to Cuban officials. This occurred ten years ago in Mexico and the Bogota Station does not believe this incident will adversely effect the SUBJECT'S present operational use of subject.

SECTION XII
SUBJECT'S PERSONAL HABITS

1. USE OF LIQUOR, DRUGS: GAMBLING, PARAMOURS.
Subject not known to have any overt vices.

--- Page 17 ---

14-00000

SECRET

SECTION XIII
AVOCATIONAL INTERESTS

1. INDICATE SUBJECT'S HOBBIES OR INTEREST IN SPORTS, MUSIC, ETC.
Boxing enthusiast

SECTION XIV
GENERAL

INDICATE WHETHER SUBJECT'S LANGUAGE ABILITIES AND OTHER CHARACTERISTICS, ARE SUCH AS HE COULD PASS AS A NATIVE OF A COUNTRY OR REGION OTHER THAN HIS OWN. EXPLAIN.
Subject could pass as a native of any Latin American country.

INDICATE WHETHER INFORMATION IN PRQ PARTS I AND II WAS OBTAINED BY RESEARCH, CLANDESTINE ASSESSMENT, FILES, CORRESPONDENCE OR OTHER MEANS.
Information obtained through LIFEAT, name checks of Mexico City and Bogota Station files, Mexican Government files, Dun and Bradstreet, and Headquarters.

IF OTHER THAN ROUTINE ACTION IS REQUIRED. IF AND WHEN TERMINATION OF SUBJECT IS EFFECTED. PLEASE EXPLAIN. (Also see para. 43b, supra)
NA

SECTION XV
EMERGENCY CONDITIONS RECONTACT ARRANGEMENTS

GIVE FULL DETAILS RECOGNITION SIGNALS. WHERE COULD CONTACT BE MADE WHAT BONA FIDES COULD INDIVIDUAL MAKING CONTACT USE
Not applicable for the circumstances in which he is being used. Should there be a break between GICITRON-4 and LYTHGOE and this or another Station want to meet with him to assess him for other operational activities in the future it would only be necessary to mention his friendship with SHRYOCK and his activities in conjunction with LYTHGOE.

SECTION XVI
MISCELLANEOUS OPERATIONAL DATA AND REMARKS

Subject is owner and operator of a print shop employing approximately 50 employees

--- Page 18 ---

14-00000

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH/3/Col - B. Merrell

PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
NUMBER: 201-267298
SUBJECT: GICITRON/4

REFERENCE: Your Memorandum, Dated 28 October 1970

A Provisional Operational Approval is granted for the use of this Subject as set forth below.

A Provisional Operational Approval issued by CI Staff grants the same authority, on a temporary basis, for the use of an individual as the authority granted in an Operational Approval unless otherwise specified by CI/OA. It is based, however, only on preliminary file checks and investigation and is subject to a further final review when all investigation is completed.

For limited use as requested in your memo of 28 October 1970, the POA is reinstated until 30 January 1971.

To process the Operational Approval, full information (completed PRQ Parts I and II) must be submitted as soon as possible and not later than six (6) months from this date. An Operational Approval will follow when all investigation is completed and upon the receipt of satisfactory PRQ Parts I and II. Cancellation must be requested if use of Subject by interested Divisions ceases.

/S/ John E. Howard
CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION
DATE: 30 October 1970

--- Page 19 ---

14-00000

SECRET
28 October 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR: CI/OA
ATTENTION: Mr. Lally
SUBJECT: GICITRON-4 (201-267298)

1. We have received your memorandum of 22 October 1970 informing us that GICITRON-4's file has been closed. However, from Bogota Station correspondence we know that GICITRON-4 is still of operational interest and there is a strong probability that the missing PRQ Part II has been delayed by the recent restriction on pouching material to and from the field.

2. It is requested that the file on GICITRON-4 be reopened and his POA be extended for an additional 30 days to allow time for the PRQ Part II to arrive or to be prepared if need be.

Burdell Merrell
WH/3/Colombia

DISTRIBUTION:
Orig & 1 - Addressee
1 - 1.1 File
1 - 201 File

WH/3/C: BMerrell:blb (28 October 1970)

--- Page 20 ---

14-00000

Acting Chief of Station, Bogota

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

GICITRON-4 (201-267298)

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

ACTION: Forward PRQ Part II
REFERENCE: HLBS-2626, 15 September 1970

1. We have been notified that the POA for GICITRON-4 was cancelled on 22 October 1970 because we failed to provide a PRQ Part II showing the details of our present relations with him. We made an attempt to complete this Part II here at the desk, but found that there were too many items of information that we do not have.

2. We have requested that GICITRON-4's POA be extended for an additional 30 days to allow time to provide the Part II. We indicated that perhaps the document has been delayed by the recent pouch restrictions.

3. We would appreciate the receipt of the PRQ Part II within the next 30 days. If it has crossed this dispatch in the mail, please disregard this notice.

Ernest A. PUKALA

DISTRIBUTION:
2-ACOS/Bogota
1 - RI (F201)
1 - Chrono

--- Page 21 ---

14-00000

SECRET

CANCELLATION TO DIVISION
DATE 22 October 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR: C/WH/3/C
ATTENTION: C. Roberson, Jr.

The file on GICITRON/4 is cancelled and closed in CI/OA for the following reason:

Failure to submit PRQ-II as required under CSI No. 10-5 or to indicate any further interest in obtaining approval for the operational use of Subject.

Prior to any future use of Subject, it will be necessary to furnish a new approval request (Form #772) to CI/OA.

/S/ John B. Howard

--- Page 22 ---

14-00000

SECRET

Chief of Station, Bogota

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

GICITRON-4 (202-267298)

ACTION REQUIRED: REFERENCES

ACTION REQUIRED: Please forward PRQ Part II.

The POA on GICITRON-4 expired on 6 September 1970. Please submit a PRQ Part II based on the current proposed Use of GICITRON-4 within 30 days.

Gracia V. TILLING

DISTRIBUTION:
2 - COS/Bogota
1 - RI (F201)
1 - Chrono

--- Page 23 ---

14-00000

SECRET
7 September 1970

TO: WH/3/C C. Roberson, Jr.
FROM: CHIEF, CI/OA
/S/ John E. Howard

SUBJECT: GICITRON/4 (201-267298)

IN ORDER THAT FURTHER CONSIDERATION MAY BE GIVEN YOUR REQUEST FOR APPROVAL IN THIS CASE, IT IS REQUESTED THAT YOU FURNISH THIS OFFICE THE INFORMATION CHECKED BELOW, OR REVIEW INFORMATION AS INDICATED.

Limited POA expired 6 September 1970. Please submit PRQ II. If, within 30 days, no further interest in Subject has been indicated, POA will be automatically cancelled.

--- Page 24 ---

14-00000

SECRET

Chief of Station, Bogota

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

Forwarding of PRQ's I and II on GICITRON-4

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

ACTION REQUIRED: None.
REFERENCE: HLBS-2533, 6 April 1970

Forwarded herewith as Attachment 1 for Station information and the file are two (2) copies of PRQ Part II for GICITRON-4 (formerly LITAKIL-1). Separate Cover Attachment, Number 2, to this dispatch consists of two (2) copies of PRQ Part I.

Gracia V. TILLING

ATTACHMENTS:
1. PRQ Part II, b/w
2. PRQ Part I, w/s/c

DISTRIBUTION:
2 - COS/Bogota (w/atts 1 & 2 [two copies each], b/w & u/e/c)

--- Page 25 ---

14-00000

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE
PART 1 - BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION

INSTRUCTIONS: 1. Write clearly.
2. Answer all questions. If question not applicable, write "NA"
3. Attach blank pages, if additional space is needed.

SECTION I
GENERAL PERSONAL AND PHYSICAL DATA

1. NAME (First): Manuel
(Middle):
(Last): MACHADO Llosa

2. NAME IN NATIVE LANGUAGE OR SCRIPT:

3. NAME AT BIRTH (If different than item 1):

4. ALIASES, BINAMES, TELECODES. LEGAL CHANGE IN NAME (State time, reason for and place of use): "Manuelito"

5. DATE OF BIRTH: 11 December 1913
6. PLACE OF BIRTH: Auras, Oriente, Cuba

7. PERSONAL HABITS (Liquor, drugs, gambling, paramours):

8. COURT RECORD (Court, date, arrests, charges, punishments, sentences, acquittals):

9. DESCRIPTION (Use American standards of measurements, if possible)
a. HEIGHT: b. WEIGHT: c. APPARENT AGE: d. SEX: X
e. COMPLEXION: f. BUILD: g. FACE (Shape): h. COLOR OF HAIR: black i. COLOR OF EYES: brown
j. TEETH: k. SCARS AND MARKS OR OTHER DISTINGUISHING FEATURES: l. POSTURE: m. GENERAL APPEARANCE: n. PROMINENT FEATURES: o. OTHER IDENTIFYING FEATURES:

ATTACH SAMPLES OF SIGNATURE AND HANDWRITING: ALSO DATED PHOTOGRAPH AND FINGERPRINTS, IF OBTAINABLE

--- Page 26 ---

14-00000

SECTION II
CITIZENSHIP

10. PRESENT CITIZENSHIP: 11. NATIONALITY AT BIRTH AND ANY SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS (If different than Item 10.): 12. PRESENT RESIDENCE (Indicate as owner, tenant or sub-tenant): 13. PERMANENT ADDRESS (If different than Item 12.):

14. IF U.S. NATURALIZED CITIZEN. GIVE NAME, DATE, CITY AND NUMBER OF CERTIFICATE GRANTED:

15. TRAVEL OUTSIDE COUNTRY OF PRESENT RESIDENCE (Countries, dates and purposes): United States, Cuba - 1959

SECTION III
OCCUPATIONAL AND FINANCIAL DATA

16. PRESENT OCCUPATION: 17. TITLE: 18. SALARY (Per annum): 19. FINANCIAL STATUS (Earnings, bank deposits, securities and property):

SECTION IV
ORGANIZATIONAL AFFILIATIONS

20. MEMBERSHIP IN RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATIONS:

21. PRESENT AND PAST MEMBERSHIP IN PROFESSIONAL AND SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS POLITICAL AFFILIATIONS: Treasurer of the 26th of July Movement in Mexico

SECTION V
EDUCATIONAL DATA

22. SCHOOLS: NAME AND LOCATION OF SCHOOL: NAME OF COURSE: DATES ATTENDED: DEGREE RECEIVED:

23. LANGUAGES AND DIALECTS: (List below each language in which you possess any degree of competence.)
LANGUAGE: Spanish
READ: YES
WRITE: YES
SPEAK: YES
UNDERSTAND: YES

--- Page 27 ---

14-00000

SECTION VI
SPECIAL QUALIFICATIONS AND INTERESTS

24. INDICATE ANY WRITING. GIVE DETAILS INCLUDING TITLES OF BOOKS OR ARTICLES, ALSO NAMES OF PUBLISHERS AND PUBLICATION DATES.

25. SPECIAL SKILLS, ABILITIES, HOBBIES SUCH AS RADIO, PHOTOGRAPHY, ETC.

SECTION VII
MILITARY SERVICE

COUNTRY: UNIT: DATES: From - To: DUTY:

IDENTIFYING COUNTRY. INDICATE WHERE SERVICE PERFORMED. DECORATIONS, OVER- AND ABOVE REGULAR PAY. GIVE DETAILS IF EVER PRISONER. WHY DISCHARGED.

SECTION VIII
EMPLOYMENT HISTORY

NOTE: INDICATE CHRONOLOGICAL HISTORY OF EMPLOYMENT LISTING LAST POSITION FIRST. INCLUDE ANY GOVERNMENT EMPLOYMENT.

a. INCLUSIVE DATES (From-To): b. EMPLOYER: c. ADDRESS: d. TYPE OF WORK: e. SALARY OR EARNINGS: f. REASON FOR LEAVING:

a. INCLUSIVE DATES (From-To): b. EMPLOYER: c. ADDRESS: d. TYPE OF WORK: e. SALARY OR EARNINGS: f. REASON FOR LEAVING:

a. INCLUSIVE DATES (From-To): b. EMPLOYER: c. ADDRESS: d. TYPE OF WORK: e. SALARY OR EARNINGS: f. REASON FOR LEAVING:

a. INCLUSIVE DATES (From-To): b. EMPLOYER: c. ADDRESS: d. TYPE OF WORK: e. SALARY OR EARNINGS: f. REASON FOR LEAVING:

a. INCLUSIVE DATES (From-To): b. EMPLOYER: c. ADDRESS: d. TYPE OF WORK: e. SALARY OR EARNINGS: f. REASON FOR LEAVING:

--- Page 28 ---

14-00000

SECTION IX
MARITAL STATUS

31. CHECK ONE: SINGLE, MARRIED, SEPARATED, WIDOWED, DIVORCED

32. STATE DATE, PLACE AND REASON FOR ALL SEPARATIONS.

IF YOU HAVE BEEN MARRIED MORE THAN ONCE, INCLUDING ANNULMENTS, USE SHEET FOR FORMER WIFE OR HUSBAND GIVING DATA REQUIRED BELOW FOR ALL PREVIOUS MARRIAGES.

33. NAME OF SPOUSE: (First) (Middle) (Last)
34. DATE OF MARRIAGE: 35. PLACE OF MARRIAGE:
36. DATE OF BIRTH: 37. PLACE OF BIRTH:
38. NATIONALITY AT BIRTH: 39. SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS: 40. PRESENT RESIDENCE (Last residence, if deceased):

SECTION X
CHILDREN

FULL NAME: SEX: YEAR OF BIRTH: PLACE OF BIRTH: NATIONALITY AT BIRTH: SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS HELD BY ANY CHILD (Identify child and give his, or her, present address)

SECTION XI
PARENTS

41. FULL NAME: FATHER: 42. YEAR OF BIRTH: 43. PLACE OF BIRTH: 44. NATIONALITY AT BIRTH: 45. SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS: 46. OCCUPATION: 47. PRESENT RESIDENCE:

48. FULL NAME: MOTHER: 49. YEAR OF BIRTH: 50. PLACE OF BIRTH: 51. NATIONALITY AT BIRTH: 52. SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS: 53. OCCUPATION: 54. PRESENT RESIDENCE:

--- Page 29 ---

14-00000

SECTION XII
BROTHERS AND SISTERS

FULL NAME: SEX: YEAR OF BIRTH: PLACE OF BIRTH: NATIONALITY AT BIRTH: SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS HELD BY ANY BROTHER OR SISTER (Identify brother, or sisters and give his, or her, present address)
Pablo MACHADO Llosa

SECTION XIV
RELATIVES, ACQUAINTANCES AND CONTACTS

55. NAMES OF RELATIVES IN ANY GOVERNMENT SERVICE: INDICATE NAME OF GOVERNMENTS AND POSITIONS HELD.

56. RELATIVES, FRIENDS, CORRESPONDENTS IN U.S. (Explain relationship)

57. NATURALIZATION OF CLOSE RELATIVES IN U.S. (Give name, date, city and number of certificate granted)

58. NAMES, ALIASES, TELECODES AND RELATIONSHIP OF ALL PERSONS KNOWN TO BE CONNECTED IN ANY WAY WITH ANY INTELLIGENCE SERVICE.

SECTION XV
PERSONAL ASSOCIATIONS

59. LIST CLOSE ASSOCIATES, INDIVIDUALS OR GROUPS

SECTION XVI
MISCELLANEOUS

DATE: SIGNATURE:

--- Page 30 ---

14-00000

SECRET

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE
PART II - OPERATIONAL INFORMATION

INSTRUCTIONS TO CASE OFFICER

1. This form must be filled in by the case officer or appropriate authority on the basis of the best available information. It is not to be shown to the subject.

2. Normally, headquarters will be unable to issue an approval unless requester furnishes answers to all questions in PRQ parts