14-00000

104-10183-10276 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

19 June 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH/SA/EI
VIA: Chief, WH/PO/A
SUBJECT: AMMUG/1 Operation
Target Analysis and Non-surfacable Leads

1.  Reference is made to your memorandum date 16 June 1964 requesting Target Analysis Summary Reports on leads to be exploited and lists of those leads which the Branch desires not to be surfaced to the Intelligence community.

2.  Attached are separate lists for each appropriate Central American and Caribbean country detailing nationals of each country whose names have been mentioned or otherwise cropped up during the debriefing of AMMUG/1. WH/2 considers, at this time, that it is not feasible nor desirable to surface any of these leads to the intelligence community, pending a final determination as to the feasibility of pursuing some of these leads for operational exploitation. Those leads which are determined to be of no operational potential will be released to your office on a continuing basis for surfacing to appropriate agencies.

3.  Attached also are seven completed Target Analysis Summary Reports on:

    a) Francisco Javier MELLA Pena
    b) Jaime DURAN Hernando
    c) Socrates Isaias PEGUERO Schuorer
    d) Jean Norbert MONTERO
    e) Mauricio de la SELVA Venegas
    f) Roque DALTON Garcia
    g) Noel GUERRERO Santiago

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

-2-

These individuals represent immediate targets on whom we have already undertaken action. We anticipate that certain selected other individuals from the lists cited in paragraph one above will become targets, and accordingly, are in the process of examining and investigating these. As these individuals are culled through, Target Analysis Summary Reports shall be prepared and forwarded to your office.

[John M. Whitten]
C/WH/2

Attachments:
Target Analysis Summary Reports
AMMUG/1 Leads Not to be Disseminated

Distribution:
O & 1 = C/WH/SA/CI (w/atts)
1 = WH/PO/A (w/atts)
3 = WH/2 (w/atts)

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

Dominican Republic Leads Not to be Disseminated - AMMUG/1 Operation

Francisco Javier MELLA Pena
Jaime DURAN Hernando
Socrates Isaias PEGUERO Schuorer
Elpidio RUIZ (this is an alias of "TIBURON" - true name still not known)
David Onelio ESPAILLAT Campos
Francisco Eleuterio RAMOS Peguero
Francisco Lizardo RAMOS Peguero
Teresa Inocencia ESPAILLAT Hernandez
Jose Bienvenido GUEVARA Nouel
Hector Augusto CARRAL Ortega
Leopoldo Ariosto GRULLON Ruiz
Jose CASSA Ligrono
Silvano LORA Vicente
Ilander Zanoni SALIG Colmonte
Ana Mercedes ESPINAL de Castro
Baldemiro CASTRO Garcia
Marcelino GRULLON Jimenez
Benito ALEJO German
Norge BOTAD Fernandez
Rafael Francisco TAVAS Rosario
Hugo TOYS Vargas
Cayetano Armando RODRIGUEZ Del Prado

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000

Antonio Emilio Jose Di Conde
Simon BOLIVAR
Arturo Rafael ESPAILLAT Rodrigues
Carmen B. HERNANDEZ de Faxas
Ernesto LOPEZ Molina
Maximo LOPEZ Molina

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000

El Salvador Leads Not to be Disseminated - AMMUG/1 Operation

Roberto BERCIANDO Marin - GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING ONLY
Raul Fernando ESCOBAR Melendez - GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING ONLY
Carlos Alberto FLORES Hernandez - GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING ONLY
Juan Ramon LOZANO Rosales - ALIAS of ROBERTO BERCIANDO MARIN
Carlos MARTINEZ Ortiz - DEAD - GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING ONLY
Ricardo Augusto MARTINEZ Vanegas - GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING ONLY
Ivan Danilo RODRIGUEZ Leon - GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING ONLY
Lisandro RAMIREZ Solis - GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING ONLY
Pedro RODRIGUEZ - GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING ONLY
Ciro Arturo RUIZ Torres - GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING ONLY (ALIAS of VICTOR SANCHEZ B. WILLA)
Victor Manual SANCHEZ Bonilla - GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING ONLY
Rafael CONTRERAS Molina - PSIQUIATRA
Arturo ALPARO Fuentes - GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING ONLY
Raul Antonio VARGAS - GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING ONLY
Andres Antonio VELASQUEZ - GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING ONLY
Roque DALTON Garcia
Manuel Antonio CALERO - GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING & GUN RUNNING
Jose Alberto CARRILLO Calderon - known to AMMUG/1
Jose Salvador Rosales - GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING ONLY
Ricardo ASTIO Rivas - AGENT? (IN CONTACT CASTRO)
Francisco DURAN Cardano - GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING ONLY
Freddy Guerra - GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING ONLY
Armando LOPEZ Mantiel - GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING ONLY
Jose Antonio GARCIA Rivera - GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000

Pedro SANTACRUZ Castro - GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING ONLY
Ruben MARTA Guardado - GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING ONLY
Raul Concepcion Morales - NO RECORD IN AMMUG/1 INDEX WH/SA/CI
Jose MANCIA Martinez - GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING
Jesus Antonio PAZ - GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING
Rita RAMIREZ - GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING ONLY
Pedro AREVALO Melgar - ALIAS of Jesus Antonio
[Jorge Federico BAIRES] - AGENT?
Ana Leticia BILAZA (BARRAGAN?) Quiroa - GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING ONLY
Raul Castellanos - Contact WITH Susu. Mentioned In AMMUG-1 files.
TA [Tomas GUERRA Rivas]
TA [Alejandro MONTANO Gomez]
[Rafael ACEVEDO Manco]
[Jose Hanlie JETA Canas]

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000
SECRET

Guatemala Leads Not to be Disseminated - AMMUG/1 Operation

Antonio JUNH Harcos
Julio CAIREMA Sierra G/W
Francisco CIWZ Figueroa G/W
Victor Manuel CUELLAR Carranza C/W
Bernardo DIAZ Mendez C/W
Rolando HERRERA Hernandez C/U
Marco Antonio LEONI Aguilar G/W AMMUG-1 Knows
Edgar Roberto LOBO Dubon G/W AMMUG-1 Knows
Jose Aquiles L. MORALES G/W AMMUG-1 Knows
Manuel Josue ORTEDA Paz
Angel PALENCIA Sanchez G/W ONLY
Ricardo Arturo GUZMAN (pseudo: Alberto SANTOS Kolgar)
Jacobo ARBENZ Guzman
Mario BARRIENTOS
Manuel GALICH
Carmen ROMERO Sosa
Fernando SOSA Pol
Marco Antonio YON Sosa
Luis Augusto TURCIOS Lima
Francisco AMADO Granados
Alicia MOYA de Amado
Jose Manuel FORTUNY
Victor Manuel GUTIERREZ Garbin
Isabel POHL Rosaro de Sosa
Jose ROSAL S
Nelida TURCIOS

--- Page 8 ---

14-00000
SECRET

Haiti Leads Not to be Disseminated - AMMUG/1 Operation

Jorge Norbert MONTERO
Rene DEPESTRE
(Unknown) "PITIN"

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000

Honduras Leads Not to be Disseminated - AMMUG/1 Operation

Maglio HRED Espinal
Mario SOSA Navarro
Luis Randolfo BANEGAS

--- Page 10 ---

14-00000

Nicaragua Leads Not to be Disseminated - AMMUG/1 Operation

Noel GUERRERO Santiago
Professor TORRES (probably Idelberto TORRES Espinoza)
Silvio MATURGA (or MALLORCA)
Ernesto MARTINEZ
German PALACHI Baca
Efrain SANCHEZ
Carlos A. TINDO Montiel
Marvin CASTRO
Felix MONTERREY Dobil
Elicio Dtharinto GONZALEZ Moreno
Alejandro ALEGRIA Bermudez
Juan Jose GARCIA Lorio
ALTAMIRANO
Bayardo ALTAMIRANO Lopez
Ivan BACA
Alejandro BRUDER
Anibal LORIO Garcia
Enrique MARRCO
Orlando QUANT Quintana
Rolando QUANT
Monterrey IES
Rodolfo ROMERO Gomes
Efrain SANCHEZ Sancho

--- Page 11 ---

14-00000

Panama Leads Not to be Disseminated - AMMUG/1 Operation

Thelma KINO
Jorge TURNER
(Unknown) "Luis Sonrisa Case" - 2 male guitarists

--- Page 12 ---

14-00000
SECRET

Dominican Republic

Target Analysis Summary Report - AMMUG/1 Operation

SUBJECT: Francisco Javier MELLA Pena aka Francisco Javier MELIA Dona aka "Pichi"

I. Significance of Target

    a) Cuban Intelligence Service Connection

    MELLA has been identified as a Singleton Cuban Intelligence Service Agent in the Dominican Republic, trained as a frogman, and also in s/d and ciphers. His exact mission on behalf of the CIS is not known.

    b) Communist Party Affiliation

    Subject is a member of the Castroist revolutionary Agrupacion Politica Catorce de Junio (APCJ - 14th of June Political Group). The APCJ is not a Communist Party per se; however, its present, dominant leaders are Marxist-Communist in their political direction. The APCJ is presumed penetrated by actual Communists, and is known to receive moral and material support from Cuba.

    c) Information which Could be Obtained

    1.  His exact mission on behalf of the Cuban Intelligence Service. What information is he required to furnish to the Service? The reason for this information.
    2.  What persons will he use to acquire this information? Will they all be unwitting?
    3.  What is his exact role as a frogman? (for arms caches, demolition etc..)
    4.  Information on his accommodation address in France. Additional information on his accommodation address in Jamaica.
    5.  Information on the relationship between Cuba and the APCJ and plans for the Dominican Republic.
    6.  Information on other Cuban IS agents known to him.
    7.  Doubling (see III for more details).

--- Page 13 ---

14-00000
SECRET

-2-

II. Current Location

    Hermanos Miralles No. 5, Madrid, Spain (since February 1964, when he went there from Cuba. In Madrid, he was joined by his Dominican girl-friend, Xiomara SALADIN Decillo, whom he married there. Neither has yet returned to the Dominican Republic.) His last known address in the Dominican Republic is Avenida Independencia No. 55, Santo Domingo.

III. Vulnerabilities (for recruitment or defection)

    None known. The only information on MELLA was acquired in April 1963 when he transited Mexico en route to Cuba. At that time MELLA became quite upset when "salio a Cuba" (left for Cuba) was stamped in his passport. Accordingly, with this being the only past information on Subject, we would be starting from "scratch".

IV. Family and Relatives

    a) Wife: Xiomara SALADIN Decillo, Dominican citizen (no information)
    Father: Luis MELLA, Dominican citizen (no information)
    Mother: Noemi (nee unknown) de MELLA, Dominican citizen (no information)

    (The Santo Domingo Station is presently conducting an investigation of his relatives)

    b) None known to be in the United States.

V. Biographic Data

    Date of Birth: 25 February 1937
    Place of Birth: Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic
    Citizenship: Dominican Republic
    Language: Native Spanish (only language capability known to us at this time)
    Physical Description: 5'10" tall, 170 pounds, black hair (cut short - but not crew-cut), dark brown eyes, swarthy complexion
    Photograph: Is available at the Desk
    Other pertinent data: Would be described as "pretty", young, no mustache and does not shave.

--- Page 14 ---

14-00000
SECRET

-3-

VI. Operational Leads and Lines to Subject for Recruitment or Defection

    a) (2YTA/1) - Lives in same apartment building area as Subject. Has furnished some information on Subject and his girl-friend, which he obtained through normal contacts.

    b) [Jaime DURAN Hernando] - Operational Lead only (see separate target sheet). He is close to MELLA and also could lead us to a still unidentified CIS agent "TIBURON" who used DURAN as an unwitting courier for the delivery of microfilm to Cuba.

    c) (GOTH/1) - Although not a leader of the APCJ, he has good access to the APCJ's extremist "circle". He has been used with extremely good results for information on other Cuban targets of interest.

VII. Evaluation:

    a) As was stated above, MELLA is completely new to us. However, the Station is currently conducting an investigation of MELLA in an effort to determine his vulnerability for recruitment/defection.

    b) With the present ruling Dominican Triumvirate, Subject could be arrested if he came to security notice, not only in his position with the CIS but also if he became involved in any subversive Communist activities. In the event he is arrested he undoubtedly would be deported.

--- Page 15 ---

14-00000

Dominican Republic

Target Analysis Summary Report - AMMUG/1 Operation

SUBJECT: Jaime DURAN Hernando aka Jaime DURAN Hernandez aka "Jimmy"

I. Significance of Target

    a) Connection with Cuban Intelligence Service

    Subject is not a Cuban Intelligence Service agent, but did receive guerrilla training in Cuba.

    b) Communist Party Affiliation

    DURAN is Secretary-General of the pro-Castro Agrupacion Politica de Catorce Junio (APCJ - 14th of June Movement) in the Dominican Republic, and is a member of that faction of the APCJ favoring the training of its members to direct the future of a socialist government.

    c) Subject is a close friend of Francisco Javier MELLA Pena, an identified Cuban Intelligence Service Agent in the Dominican Republic. Subject was also used as an "unwitting" courier by a still unidentified Cuban IS agent "TIBURON" in the Dominican Republic. Subject unwittingly carried to Cuba for "TIBURON" in September 1963, a match-book containing microfilm.

    d) Utility - Penetration of the 14 June & plans & intentions of the Cubans vs D.R.

II. Current Location

    Believed to be in Cuba. Has been there since September 1963. Last known Dominican Republic address: Capotillo #20, Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic.

III. Vulnerabilities (for recruitment or defection)

    None known. (Also see VII - Evaluation)

IV. Family and Relatives

    a) Wife - Gloria ACEVEDO de Duran, Dominican citizen (no information)
    No other relatives known.

    b) No known relatives in the U.S.A.

--- Page 16 ---

14-00000

-2-

V. Biographic Data

    Date of Birth: 17 June 1933
    Place of Birth: Jarabacoa, Dominican Republic
    Citizenship: Dominican Republic
    Language ability: Native Spanish (only ability known to us at this time)
    Physical description: (requesting from the station)
    Photograph: Is available at the Desk

VI. Operational Leads and Lines to subject for Recruitment or Defection

    GOTH/1? - Lives in the same residential section as DURAN. Has furnished some information on Subject, which he obtains through normal contacts.

    CROSS/1 - Has provided numerous reports on DURAN's activities within the APCJ.

    LESONG/1 - Has provided brief information on Subject's activities within the APCJ and his travel to Cuba.

VII. Evaluation

    In that we presume that DURAN is a hard-core Communist and at present have scant information for a target assessment, immediate prospects for recruitment are virtually nil. Requirements can be levied on GOTH/1 since he is a controlled source; information could be elicited from CROSS/1 and possibly from LESONG/1. As developed, leads from foregoing could be followed up on, but, as indicated above, we will be starting at the bottom of the ladder on DURAN as an operational target.

--- Page 17 ---

14-00000

Cuba - Dominican Republic

Target Analysis Summary Report - AMMUG/1 Operation

SUBJECT: Socrates Isaias PEGUERO Schuorer alias Nelson BARET Disla aka "Pupo"

I. Significance of Target

    In that Subject lives in Cuba he could be extremely valuable to WH/SA and WH/2/Dominican Republic.

    a) Connection with Cuban Intelligence Service

    PEGUERO is the APCJ (Agrupacion Politica Catorce de Junio - 14th of June Political Group) representative in Cuba acting as focal point between the APCJ and the Cuban Intelligence Service (DGI).

    b) Communist Party Affiliation

    APCJ representative in Cuba. Subject has been reported as a member of the pro-Castro faction of the APCJ since 1951 when he was exiled in Curacao.

    c) Information which Subject Could Furnish

    1.  Subject could furnish information on the relationship between the Cuban Intelligence service and the APCJ.
    2.  Information on the APCJ as a party, plans, members etc.
    3.  Information on Cuban Intelligence Service personnel known to him.
    4.  Possible operations of the Cuban Intelligence Service against the Dominican Republic.
    5.  Possible information on matters of interest to WH/SA within Cuba.
    6.  Doubling as a penetration of the Cuban Intelligence Service and the APCJ.
    7.  Information on Dominicans being trained in Cuba, not only in guerrilla training, but as agents.

--- Page 18 ---

14-00000

II. Current Location

    Lives in Habana, Cuba (address unknown). In Cuba he goes by the name of Nelson BARET.

III. Vulnerabilities (for recruitment or defection)

    None known. No information on his activities since 1951 is known.

IV. Family and Relatives

    a) Wife - Gisela SENCION de Peguero, daughter of former Dominican Consul in Curacao.

    b) Children - one daughter (name and age unknown), and one son (name unknown) born in Habana, Cuba in December 1963.

    c) Father - Isaias PEGUERO Perez (deceased)

    d) Mother - Tulia (nee unknown) de PEGUERO (no additional information)

    e) Brother - Nelson Ramon PEGUERO Schuorer (deceased)

    f) Sisters - Sobeya O. PEGUERO Schuorer and Maria A. PEGUERO Schuorer (no additional information)

    g) No relatives known to be in the United States.

V. Biographic Data

    Date of Birth: 1 January 1927
    Place of Birth: San Pedro de Macoris, Dominican Republic

    (NOTE: when travelling uses Dominican passport issued 25 July 1963 in the name of Nelson BARET Disla, date and place of birth as 23 January 1939, Dominican Republic; occupation: student)

    Citizenship: Dominican Republic ? possibly changed to Cuban.
    Language ability: Native Spanish; others not known.
    Physical Description: 5'7" tall, 150 pounds, brown-skinned, black eyes, wears eyeglasses, wears moustache
    Photograph is available of him and also the real Nelson BARET Disla
    Other pertinent data: Laboratory Technician

--- Page 19 ---

14-00000

-3-

VI. Operational Leads and Lines to Subject for Recruitment or Defection

    We have several sources reporting on activities of the APCJ, its members etc. within the Dominican Republic (GOTH/1 and/or CROSS/1?) could be used to elicit information on PEGUERO through their normal contacts. (OGI.0SS/1 is being used at this time to report on other Cuban targets.

VII. Evaluation

    While there is no information on hand to indicate Subject is approachable, the fact that he is in Cuba, known to AMMUG/1 - whom might approach him - and has been identified to us he becomes of operational interest. Obviously our objective is to continue our interest and collect what information we might, awaiting the day for his exit from Cuba. At that time more definitive action might be considered. His importance as a source of information on inside Cuba and that country's intention and capabilities on the Dominican Republic cannot be discounted and merit our continued alertness to his activities and whereabouts.

--- Page 20 ---

14-00000

Target Analysis Summary Report - AMMUG/1 Operation

SUBJECT: Roque DALTON Garcia

I. Significance of Target

    DALTON is a recruited agent of the Cuban DGI. He has been trained in guerrilla warfare, S/W, radio transmission, and radio reception. AMMUG/1 claims that Subject is a member of the Central Committee of the PCES. AMMUG/1 characterized Subject as having excellent contacts within the DGI in Cuba. Subject is in contact with Mauricio de la Selva Venegas, the Salvadoran intermediary, in Mexico City. In view of the above, Subject could be expected to furnish considerable information on both the PCES in El Salvador and his activities for the DGI.

II. Current Location

    Subject was deported from El Salvador to Mexico in late January 1964. On 16 June 1964 Subject was spotted by the Salvadoran National Police in San Salvador, and is now under surveillance. Exact address will be obtained by the San Salvadoran Station.

III. Vulnerabilities

    AMMUG/1 lists Subject as his leading candidate for recruitment by us. His reasoning on this is that Subject is not highly motivated, has a weakness for women and the easy life, and a generally weak nature. AMMUG/1 says that Subject is very intelligent, but never showed a real desire to learn during his Cuban training. Subject was given 600 dollars to purchase a radio receiver upon his return from Cuba, but he apparently spent the money on himself.

IV. Family and Relatives

    Father (deceased) was U.S. citizen. One of Subject's three brothers fought for the U.S. in Okinawa. A sister, Margarita, is Mexican citizen who now is in Cuba as a student.

--- Page 21 ---

14-00000

-2-

V. Biographic Data

    DOB: 14 May 1935
    POB: San Salvador, El Salvador
    Nationality: Salvadoran
    Language Ability: Native Spanish; others not known
    Physical Description: Height 1.68 meters; long thin face; black eyes; two gold teeth; thin-lipped; black hair parted on left side.
    Photo Available: Yes

VI. Operational Leads and Lines to Subject for Recruitment or Defection

    Subject is known personally by AMMUG-1 and by (JUGRIN-1, recently recruited agent) of San Salvador Station. Subject is presently under surveillance by the National Police in San Salvador (Station has (unilateral penetration of the police who might be used as a lead into Subject).

VII. Evaluation

    From AMMUG-1's assessment of Subject, based on personal knowledge and observation, it would appear that Subject would not be a too difficult target to hit. However, some of his personal characteristics which have made him a handling problem for the DGI would presumably make him a handling problem for us. His failure to perform for the DGI since October 1963 might mitigate against our use of him which would include, presumably, resumption of his S/W channel. Nonetheless, AMMUG-1's claim that Subject is a member of the Central Committee of the PCES (news to us) makes him an operational target for that reason alone.

--- Page 22 ---

14-00000

Haiti

Target Analysis Summary Report - AMMUG/1 Operation

SUBJECT: Jean Norbert MONTERO

I. Significance of Target

    a) Connection with Cuban Intelligence Service

    At this time Subject is not an agent of the Cuban Intelligence Service. He is currently in Cuba seeking assistance from the DGI for the training of Haitians in guerrilla warfare activities for an eventual thrust against Haiti to oust President Francois DUVALIER.

    b) Communist Party Affiliation

    Secretary-General of the Haitian Liberation Front, a newly formed party, with the ultimate aim of merging the two communist parties of Haiti. Sensitive information available at the Desk indicates that this party is Moscow influenced.

    c) Information which Subject Could Furnish

    1.  Subject could provide valuable information on the Haitian Liberation Front, i.e., its members, plans, status with the USSR/Cuba etc.
    2.  Information on the USSR/Cuba position with respect to Haiti.
    3.  Information on USSR/Cuba influence and penetrations of Haitian exile circles.
    4.  Information on Cuban's relationship with President Francois DUVALIER.
    5.  Information on Haitians now in Cuba and/or the USSR.

II. Current Location

    As of April 1961 he was living at the Hotel Calina in Habana, Cuba. His permanent residence is believed to be in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic where he has been in exile.

--- Page 23 ---

14-00000

-2-

III. Vulnerabilities (for recruitment or defection)

    None known. He is strongly anti-DUVALIER. In that many Haitian exile circles somewhat look down on the United States as a result of the unsuccessful September 1963 invasion of Haiti, it is possible that Subject merely turned to the "left" for assistance in overthrowing DUVALIER. It is however quite feasible that he would cooperate with the United States if he felt we were taking an anti-DUVALIER stand.

IV. Family and Relatives

    None known.

V. Biographic Data

    Date of Birth: Unknown
    Place of Birth: Haiti (?)
    Citizenship: Haitian
    Language ability: Native French or Creole; very little Spanish
    Physical description: 5 foot tall, 170 pounds, wears moustache
    Photograph is not available
    Other pertinent data: None

VI. Operational leads and lines to Subject for Recruitment or Defection

    a) (GOTH/1 - Haitian exile leader in the Dominican Republic who housed the EST exile group in 1963.)

    b) (H/L - Haitian exile in the Dominican Republic who stayed with MONTERO in the Dominican Republic in 1963.)

    c) (CROSS/1 - Asset in Haiti who is only in a position to make discreet inquiries regarding MONTERO.)

    d) (LESONG/1 - Asset in Haiti who is only in a position to make discreet inquiries regarding MONTERO.)

VII. Evaluation

    a) Until information has been gleaned from the assets cited in VI above regarding vulnerability to recruitment little can be done. However, as was pointed out in III above, it is highly probable that Subject merely turned to Cuba for assistance in overthrowing President DUVALIER of Haiti.

--- Page 24 ---

14-00000

b) Subject is not subject to arrest when he returns to the Dominican Republic, unless of course, his activities with the Cubans become known. In any event he definitely would not return to Haiti, as he would immediately be imprisoned and most probably tortured and killed.

--- Page 25 ---

14-00000

Target Analysis Summary Report - AMMUG/1 Operation

SUBJECT: Noel GUERRERO Santiago (201-81510)

I. Significance of Target

    GUERRERO is presently in Mexico and is "intermediary" between Cuban IS and the FLN in Nicaragua. His Cuban Intel pseudo is Andres Madariaga. AMMUG-1 saw him in Mexico in March 1964 regarding funds which the DGI had provided the FLN. According to AMMUG-1 GUERRERO is involved in "Hijos de la Tempestad" which also involves three or four other IS agents. AMMUG-1 also reported that GUERRERO is in trouble with the FLN which claims he spent money improperly. The FLN has no confidence in him and considers him cowardly and lacking in fighting spirit. By other sources he has been described as one of the main Communists in Central America. He was in Cuba in 1959 to get Cuban aid for the revolutionary movement against Nicaragua. He was formerly a member of the Communist Party in Mexico. He was a cell leader in Corinto and advisor to the Stevedore's Union.

II. Current Location

    He is presently in Mexico. He was a political exile in Honduras in 1959. He has travelled extensively throughout Central America and may have been clandestinely in Nicaragua in July 1962.

III. Vulnerabilities (for recruitment or defection)

    AMMUG-1: GUERRERO is in trouble with the FLN which claims he spent money improperly. The FLN has no confidence in him, and considers him cowardly and lacking in fighting spirit. Among AMMUG-1 documents is a critique of the abortive incursion in Nicaragua in July 1963 by Silvio Mayorga and Orlando Quant Quintana which blames GUERRERO for its failure. GUERRERO's own account admits certain mistakes and tries to justify others. However, it must be borne in mind that GUERRERO is a long time

--- Page 26 ---

14-00000

-2-

IV. Family and Relatives

    Wife: Ofelia Chacon
    Brother: Dr. Eloy GUERRERO Santiago, suspected Communist, says Noel is Communist. Eloy is anti-Somoza, has spent time in jail.
    Father: Jose F. GUERRERO Castillo, resident of Leon (DOI: 1955)

V. Personalia

    DOB: 12 April 1914
    POB: Leon, Nicaragua
    Nationality: Nicaraguan
    Languages: Spanish and English
    Religion: Professes none
    Education: 2 courses first year law
    Photo: Available in Biographic Register
    Physical description: 5'3", grey hair, dark brown eyes, complexion trigueno claro (light brunette).

VI. Operational Leads and Lines to Subject for Recruitment or Defection

    AMMUG-1 knows him personally, was in contact with him in Mexico in March 1964.

VII. Evaluation

    In 1942 or 1947 (reported both ways) GUERRERO was expelled from the Mexican Communist Party (PC:) according to another member of the PC (LIAN) who was a recruitment candidate (but dropped), and who said that GUERRERO might then be amenable to recruitment. Apparently no attempt was made to recruit him. He has been recorded throughout the years since as an active Communist revolutionary and was exiled from Nicaragua for revolutionary activities in 1959. Also in 1959 he went to Cuba and was active there in preparing for the revolutionary movement in all Latin America. He apparently was working for Cuban IS at the time of the abortive revolutionary attempt against Nicaragua in 1963, as a document provided by AMMUG-1

--- Page 27 ---

14-00000

NOTE:

written by Madariaga (GUERRERO's pseudo) attempts to point out reasons for its failure. Another document written by Silvio Mayorga and Orlando Quant blames "Andres" (GUERRERO) for its failure. GUERRERO, however, must still be in the good graces of the Cuban IS, if he is an agent in the "Hijos de la Tempestad" and serves as "intermediary" to the FLN, or remnants which may be reorganizing. It seems highly unlikely that GUERRERO would be receptive to either recruitment or defection. AMMUG-1 knows him personally and met with him in Mexico in March 1964. It would appear that AMMUG-1 could furnish more information about his contact with GUERRERO which would be helpful in an assessment of GUERRERO.

There is a report that GUERRERO was in Nicaragua clandestinely in 1962. He would undoubtedly be arrested should he return there and his presence discovered by the Nicaraguans.

This is not a complete target analysis and should not be used as such.
