```text
14-00000

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERI pEVLEBED AY CEA HEA ARTI

© ROUSE SELECT GOIN UTEE ON ASORSSTIM loxs stare SHER
SECRET

FILE TITLE/MMBERAVOLUME: Busta - Vesbele xf: ;

INCLUSIVE DATES: ? sn — 'N.

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: _ACEyee of Personne! 7
ROM: se 13 $$$
eee

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

WE NATURE OF
RECELVED VIEWING OFFICIAL

ASOLS 99
clang cha

95 xs

RELL—4¥2-5

YT J vwy081

Raa: NCA

14-00000

SECRET

OAT PatrartG °

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION 31

1. AMAL PH
007667

2. MATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION.

Fa (Lat Fit Middle}

gustesetigelas Chaztombe i. :
mec DATE RPOUESTED. 3 CATIGORY OF EHPLOTMENT

Reassignment

10, LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

oe

DDO/WH Division
FI Staff

10, POSITION TITLE
’S Officer

(G4, 1A,

Washington, D.C.

12. PORITION NUMBER UL. CAREEE SERVICE OBSIGNATION

0649 . D

0136.01 13.07 + 23642 x

16, REMARKS,

Home Base: Wil

“Toait iano

iA, sent Bi ao

U Seutbot

‘AMIE OF Ut
oa 8.

wo
3. ecu ii a

7.

9 tc
AEH OERE

1G
: CU Nae

Jos MfvoUS SHbsice : oan ert
TaeG Met HSE H poets
TBAT E SUETIEE ES Han rhanyy ee)

i

1 One (coe
i i i

D— Ose 1 SS (woe eas 2 aS | Lo

}

j

H

i

Pad PommiCes CONTOGL CEPTIMCATION 48 DP ApreovaL

CCA TREE :
4
oT 52 : pay .

14-00000

ak
EVES ONLY 17 Jan 1973

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chairman, GS-13 Evaluation Board

SUBJECT : Recommendation for Promotion to GS-4 -

:

Charlotte Bustos-Videla

l Itis recommended that Charlotte Bustos-Videla be promoted
from GS-13 to GS-14,

2, The performance of this officer has been characterized for
many years by all of her supervisors as consistently strong to out-
standing, She has been able to establish herself as indispensable in.
each Headquarters Branch or Field Station asd gnment, usually
functioning as the backbone of the unit to which assigned, Since return
to Headquarters in September 1972 from her field assignment in Mexico,
her performance bas been entirely congruent with the thrust of the
Field Station's enthusiasm over her ability, performance, attitude and
growth potential, She is currently chief of-the Cuban and CA Section
of her branch, and has established once again her mastery over her
assimmed duties, She is the kind of sound, dependable, yet
imaginative officer greatly appreciated by her supervisors, In
short, she is a true professional who performs beyond her gerade level.

38. In regard to her potential, she has served in the Agency
since 1951, starting as a secretary/stenographer, and advancing
brilliantly with each new challenge offered, She achieved protessional
Status in 1953 and has spent the bulk of her time since then specializing
in Latin American affairs, demonstrating total flexibility in assignments,
a voracious appetite for work and a penchant for exceptionally precise
and thorough production, A review of her carccr to date can lead to the
conclusion that she has always risen successfully to each new
professional challenge, and is still far from reaching her maximum
capacities, While she has had little supervisory experience in the
field, her supervisor was of the-ophion that she is a "natural leader",
This has been borne out in her’perfurmance in her current capacity
as a Branch Section Chief, in which she has demonstrated exemplary
supervisory ability. Notwithstanding her drive, aggressiveness and
professional aplomb, She is a popular co-worker, ts receptive to guidance
and sensitive and responsive to the needs of her subordinates,

- er cay a

14-00000

ener,

a

ined SECRET

EYES ChLY

4, This employee has utilized her fluency in the Spanish language
to maximum advantage in her work, Formal testing recently confirmed
her high proficiency in that language. Coupled with a comprehensive -
training record and her Invaluable experiences over a twenty year
period, she has become particularly effective in Latin American
operations and operational support, demonstrating excellence in each
of several recognized specializations, including CI operations,
functional support, reports and requirements, area support and varied

covert action activities,

5. The officer's adaptability, high intelligence and mastery over
her trade was of {nestimable value to Mexico City Station, and over a
five year period from 1967 to 1972, she functioned as the Station's
internal troubleshooter, Her duties included the maintenance of
watchlists, screening of travel documents, processing of raw
technical take, target analysis, reports writing, operational support,
handling of outside contract agents, and special assignments as the
Chief of Station's Executive Assistant,

6. The employee is occasionaliy called upon by the Office of
Training to administer specialized training, and she was chosen
recently to attend the Mid-Career Course ending In December 1972,
Meanwhile, her absence from her new job ts felt sorely by the
Branch. Uf is expected that her current assignment will Lest about

two years,

7. Ws summary, we have here an exceptional officer who has
been performing at the level of a GS-14 for some years; it is now
time to promote her to that grade commensurate with her performance

and which she so justly deserves,
“Theodore G, Shackley

Chief
Western HemisphereDivision

SECHET
"Era GLY

14-000000

Ne
ray

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chairman, QSI - Honor and Merit Awards Panel

SUBJECT - : Request for Quality Step ({ncrease (HR 20-37)
Mrs. Charlotte Bustos-Videla .

1, On the basis of the information presunted below,
it ig recommended that a Quality Step Increase be approved
for Charlotte Bustos-Videla.

- 2. As noted in the attached fitnoss report, Subject's
performance of.her duties has been uniformly outstanding.
In addition to her responsibilitios in the Cuban section of
the Mexico City Station, she has recently been made the exec-
utive assistant to the Chief of Station at Mexico City. In
this job, she screens alt incoming material for matters of
interest to the Chief and Deputy Chief of Station. She also
continues performing her past functtons in the Cuban section

for the Station,

3. Subject's present high quality of performance is
typfeal of bur performance sines she entered ihe Agency in
1951, It is fully expected that this ievel of performance

will bo matntained.

4. Although the present Chief of Station was not the
reviewing official on the attached fitness report, ‘he has
commented that he considered Subject an outstanding officer
and has recommended that she be considered ior a Quality

Step Increase,
Lil Ulam l iL han

William V. Broe
Chief
Western Hemisphere Division

14-0000

\

evs guy
SECRET

MBMORAMTUN FOR: Secretary, CBC Panel (Section A)

SUBJECT: Recommendetioa for Promotion to Grade 08-33
Charlotte Z. Bustos-Videla «i,

1. ‘The promotion of Charlotte 2. Bustos-Videla from 08-12 to
GS-13 ie hereby recommended.

2.” Tate exceptional officer has now beon performing at a
senior level for several years and, while recognition through a
Quality Step Increase was granted her last year, her sustained
performance clearly exceeding the requirements of a GS-13 qualifies
her for a promotion at this time. subject is one of the outatanding
women vito Nave demonstrated their capacity for even further
advancement within the Agency and will probably continue to advance
in the future. The present recommendation ig based on already
demonatrated ability to operate at a senior level.

R. sees is FO years old ard has bean in grade as a GU-12
for the past five aud one-half years,

=
e \ fi
Row Yeoh
Deazond FitzGerald
Chief,
Western Nemisphere Division

EYES ONLY
SECRET

14-0000

: ~. 7. 3 RED .

(Whee Fedird tat

OAM purarto

30 August 1972

2. aE ( Law Fert— Maddie)

Bustosvidola, Cf Z. 7 : . .

# CATEGORY OF BROT
Regular a
7, PIMANGAL ANALTHS MO. [6. LEGAL AUTHORITY (Compleced by Ose of
CHAROTANE Pervacd)

2. NaTuRe OF FENIONOAR ACTIONS
Reassigument and Transfer to
Vouchered Funds :

34 0. WOCANON OF Grricans $1aFCe Pe
Branch 1 .
CA Section Wash., D, C.
11 FOSINON Fm ~ 112 poamiOn wumeee 17 CARLER SERVICE DESIONATION
ops officer (p13) | _1294
14, CLASSIRCATRIN SCHEDULE (G5, IB, o16.) 13 OccuPaTomas sens 16. ORADE AND STIP 17 SALARY Om MATE.
0136.01 13°0«7 322,487 ~
FROM: DDP/WH/BR 1/MEXICO CITY STATION/0418 Xitone BASE: WH

2 = Security Serarity Reoreett Rpestad by flere 210 7-5" og 4 yp

1 - Finance

(su irmy WZ (Concur: CCS Ciké 3-G )
a 2

2i37%

E 2 IMPDET
CL BY Oo0703-4

Perera races CER Toad AED

1,
eywuy ade BA yh if

SeACa enOW J

[ise SHGMe TURF OT

ue OMG Slat
6 Moone |
4\ (a a bcos
ay th)

feast
tan ar
mT ke

14ann00

SECRET,

22 Dee 9

MEMORANDUM FOR: Charlotte Bustos-Videla
THROUGH + Chief, WB Division
SUBJECT 3’ Quality Step Iecrease

1, 1 wag pleased to learn that you have been

granted a Cuality Step Increase, Such recognition is

proof. of tho high esteem in which you ore held by your
supervisors in the Clandestine B8ervice,
2. Please accept my personal best wishes. I am

confident that your future performance will be of a

econtiouing high quality.

gp hee LS

Thomas NN, Karenossires
Leputy Direotor for Pianos

14-00000

SECRET

12 DEC 869
MEMORANDUM FOR: Head, Clandestine Service i .
Career Service : i : i
SUBJECT ; : Notification of Approval of

Quality Step Increase - -
Charlotte Uustos -Videla
1. Lam pleased to send to you the attached official
notification of the approval ofa second Quality Step Increase
to be awarded to this employee. The previous Quality Step
Increase wan effective March 1964.
2, May Cagain ask that you arrange an appropriate
ceremony ‘for the presentation of this Quality ‘Step Increase

which {5 in recognition of hey continuing excellent performance.

peli 5, Whitles

” re ctor of Pe raonnel

hesreapliteddloed

1400000

coe , era
enuhi

: ~2-

SUBJECT: Request for Quality Step Increase (IIR 70-37)
Mrs. Charlotte Bustos-Videla ©

APPROVAL RECOMMENDED:

Fah est mee ky

i) Dee II

SECRET

400000

: — SECRET a

18 hee Eslled tn)

Dale PaPAtED
REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION : ir ccrooee 1906 |
a

4 Stat Numer LAE Laat Berit Maddie)

—_
007667 ‘BUSTOS-VIDELA, Cstiemers Z,
3 NATURE OF PEESCnatL ACTION 3 CAtEGORT OF eanoTaant
: Tom ear *7
REASSIGNMENT 11 | 03] 68 REGULAR
7 FINANCIAL ANALYSIS MO [8 LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by Office of
CHARGEAME Percawed)

|_jewy [x fewe | __9135 0990

Al
67 9 ORGANIZATIONAL GE SIGNATIONS 10. LOCATION OF OFICIAL $TanON

DDP/WH
. FOREIGN FIELD .
i BRANCH 1 . -
MEXICO CITY, MEXICO STATION MEXICO CITY, . MEXICO
Vy, POsION NTE 12 POSITION NUMBER 13 CAREER SEEVICE DESIONATION
OPS OFFICER (13) 0418 D
Pre cassncances SHORE GET, ow) 1S CADLPAT OPAL SERIES (16 GRADE AND STtP 17 SALARY O8 RATE =

*

Gs 0136.01 13 4 s 18849

V9 REMARKS:

uy
: (estar EMPLOYEE SPECIAL
FROM: POSTION # 1528

=. PLZ : Be
wat ee aca

aw NK ee ete
a fa text BoMtD 48 SHOtATURE OF CAREER $2meICk SPSROVING CHEER DATE UGtHED

Le Berthold “er a o bbe gt “

é y i a Uk bebe in 5 é ebaf

SPACE snow soa EXCLUSIVE USt OF THE } OFFICE CF FESSONNEL

Ta stotes [aa eniteru es |
(A cout 088
GS
FS

“On 1”

ca \ 7" | my _

hee Ld

poner tarda

sf wo Mcusty k ww
t |p a wo |
* | [t00 Data >| (
H
ae pee 1 inn ~—. Lo
t Ee Vy toes (say tat 248 OGM SHDOTT ag
[ _!
2 tds Ut
12H
fe
enero aenenmenn me
PEE Dee ee ore pe

~ SECRET
a (8 dew Felted but
GATE pRO7AsTD

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION 13 OCTONER 1967
V SEGAL RUNGE TG MAME (act Fert Madde °

807667 / BUSTOS@VIDELA, cumnscers Z.

a Maruat OF PURSONPAL ACTION:
REASSIGNMENT al _

wa CHAROTARS
| owe | xiewe __|- 8135 0990

@ ORDANIZATIONAL DEMGNATIONS = > - 10 LOCATION OF OFracies STATION

9 CATIOOP! OF HAP OTMENT

REGULAR*

D 14048 AuTmOnitY (Complend by Offur of
Porvenvdl

DDP/WH
2 FOREIGN FIELD
“| BRANCH 1

5 MEXICO CITY, MEXICO STATION _MEXICO CITY, MEXICO
Te posmon thie 12 POSTION peut 19 Cabeta MAVICE OL HORATION
OPS OFFICER 1528 D
Ta CLASSIFICATION SCHIOULE (GN. TAL ete) 15. OCCUPATIONAL SMES 110 GRADE AND STEP 17 SAArr OO Alt
cs |S otzgon | x 3 3 | 18,769 ZO
Va REMARKS zi

OPS OFFICER OCCUPYING INTEL ANALYST,

D0 Ob fear
Grge Mh her
CSPY Cyent GAancekK

yo STAFF EMPLOYEE AER® SPECIAL,
SX CONCUR:

57

i Sen aaa ue C00 ee CUE ee
Honry L, Berthold \ a oct
C/Wt/Personnel _

1 - Finance

Tis” sicrearupe OF Castes carvact « foal wuto
rue)

Ores nounon Ga wuan [io scans
u Oot 1008

i) serisanioe thy county
aaa Gal EIS

18 eC
S1SEREaCE

ann aan
. for aie coos [eeee Ferd

. | L Rov tee 1-45 i
oe fo tb — oe 4. —
eats tee Pa ne GF fa 9) eS att $1078 Tn Bath
Joes GEL ; Fous tecune cout fa tee peewee ee tareuten ia Tra van
Heap at Lat { i
Plata wierd rik Fan ota joe | i
fav 2 Ry ! ' i

40 00 arracces,

premctrnrmtasere

|
I
:
‘
i

roa
yee? CIS? uae ritecen ence

2S June 1o¢67

NOV YOR: Contra’ Covers Group
© SUSsSCT + 3 Cover for Crarlotte 3. Sustos-Videla
- .
1. tha. Chavlotte %. Bustos-Vidola is being transicrsed
POS to Kexico City in starf capacity. She will £111 slot
1523. . . .
Myre Custos-Videla is traveling under Travel Order

No, 99265. (See copy attached) er ceves will be that of
tependent wife entering

siico On the Visitante visa of
-Videla, is receiving...
et he has

exssity ia payins for :
and for all do eat 5 wt ‘
fo no qi

vel odor Mra. Dustes-Vicela will receive nile:
S goad trip to Mexico City

vcagld effects will be seat, the i

ted) will be stored at Govornuoat ¢

as tts

iad

Ps

i new | to WELL cot

14-0000

- SECRET

Ae Cried bed

OATE peErARtD

10 JULY 1967

REQUEST +OR PERSONNEL ACTION —
DNAME fast Pt Middle}

BUSTOS YIDELA, ChanhetrE Z.

4 UNCTVE Dan ASO

Y soma mung

007667

9 NatUaT OF Mascon, ACT

REASSIGNMENT AND TRANSFER TO
CONFIDENTIAL FUNDS

5 CATEOORY OF EMMLOTMENT

REGULAR

# UGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by Uffse
FPereeed) ” 7

7 OUMANCIAL AMALTS
NO. CHanctass

10 LOCATION OF GAPiCias $TANON

© ORGANIZATIONAL ORONATIONS

DDP/WH
FOREIGN FIELD ;
BRANCH 1 ; -
MEXICO CITY, MEXICO STATION

41, POWNON nh

MEXICO CITY, MEXICO

“]ia Postion nomees 1D CARER SERVICE OLSIGNATION

OPS OFFICER — (i) | 1528 D

Va. Clattnncation ScnCDUE (G1, Erte) [13 Cckupationas sinus [1S rapt ano $07 7 YTD Sacany Ow Rare
. — a a z -
GS. ee oh... 13.3 $13,769

FROM: DbP/MI/1/Po9, No, 1201
PRA IN ACCORDANCE WITH HR20-17d(b),NOT TO EXCEED TWO YEARS,

Pasi ties

28 Gea

{2 Finay ge . .
Tea 8 ‘ot Mares nae ae = iy uae
Je

ai t D. Cus, hman

‘fir suen [a mretd
LAs

TT serpation ue 2 eORCTiCh

tia ot Tay ah

wet Re

n

wo. a

nee Haz
Se ey
btu

38 me cour at

fun ce wert
ws MAE TES Pete fhe
a MMtood (eead Saas} reads;

i eee ee

ie iy apeaovry

45 POGOe CONTRO. Feenncahon Hen

TOT S2 uae secus tenon . SECRET ves

14-00000

: s SECRET
C2 -Mobt Ct he Hed ted

BATE PET PARED.

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION
TONAL Lanta Fert — Meddit?

007667 BUSTOSVIDELA, C.Z. J

2 NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTON

PROMOTION

19 OCTOBER 1966

3 CATEGORY OF IMALOTMENT

REGULAR

B LOA AUINORITY (C. ted by Offre of
Prrenedl) cmplend by Oe

4,_WeecTIVa DATE mLouEsTED.
cay wae
23 | 66

7, FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
NO. CHaroeAtt

7238 0620
10, LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

—
ASHINGTON, D.C.

“]12 PosiTION NuMaea

1) PORTO ntl
1

12027

OPS OFFICER 3)
16 GRabe AND SUP

ae Ets 17 Satany 08 Rate

14 CLASSIFICATION ScHrouLE (as, LA, -9)

TS OCCUPATIONAL Sees

x.

13,769

1303 0-7 $

Gs 0136.01

Taian :
FROM; GS~12/6 ($12,822)

TEA BAIAMURE OF a igs "Toate SiGritO
Lheainad ie) usa | 2) sete
Robert D. Cashman C/Wi/ Pers
_ ___. _SPACY SiLOW FOR EXCLUSIVE U
we sciiow Tio tuncor [oy cine cooing ze sation” [rp ietcrat
Te Cd maroc aaiaerr rer rans we
2d 1 LE LM 19SEC 13.
7a wit Oxrints cata
oe

1

sinew
bata coee pes

Buin
mst

Mania aun 40, 0Uat scbairt- so ©

Fee MEA

38 VE Pena
g-manit MEAN INT, GOS
tems
. wanes ote eatin (eaaaaenn
mewent stavice fap dat cay [4 #otast tax Bate { Sasi ta pale
te ae eaacuno| cose [no TAC prewtiores coca Pas afta coe

mma) stant
hay) rhaty)

SECRET

14-0000

: : : 1SEP 1366

MEMORANDUM FOR: CSPS/A

SUBJECT : Recommendation for Promotion of
‘ Charlotte Bustos-Videla

- .1... The promotion recommendation to GS-13 of Mrs.
Charlotto Bustos-Videla is hereby submitted, Urs. Bustos—-
Videla entered the Agency in August 1951 as a G8-5 and
rapidly and deservedly rose to a GS-12 by 1959. She has
now boon almost sevén years in grade and has been recom~
mondod for promotion to the CSPS/8 by WH Division five

times previously.

2. This outstanding officer has continued to per-
form at the exceptional level which has by now become her
standard of porformance. Her past four annual Fitness
Roports have oach given her an overall rating of outstanding.
In this connoction it is noteworthy that no two Fitness Re-
ports wore written by the same rating officer, She con-
tinues to occupy a GS-12 officer slot and her performance
cloarly continues to exceed the requirements for that
position. Sha is con ies One Of the vutstanding
women who havo demonstr i Pp enpacity ©on Lurtner
advancement within the Agency.

3.. Mrs. Bustos-Videla not only continues to bring
continuity to the Mexican Branch through her long experience
on Mexican affairs, but constutently contributes to the

smooth functioning of the Branch through her highly efficient
organizational ewpabtlities. She has been called upon to
handle all manner of difZicult desk probtoms, She invartably
vesponds quickly, cheerfully, and cf{fectively, She has been
dastrumental in on-t ob traiaing of a number of officers,
both for dosk assignmenre and in preparation for ficld assign-
ments, She has excellest rapport with innumerable persons in
other areas and staffs, thus adding to the efficiency and
speed with which she accorplisehes her daily tasks, Wer pro~-
motion at this time fs urged,

te ee,

in coor ce
.,. William Y. Broe

vee Chief, .

Western Hemiaphere Division

14-0000

SECRET

(When Filled In) 11 August 1966
MENORANDUN FOR; Gharloth Je Buatsa-Vitele Lee
THROUGA : Head of & Career Service
SUBJECT : Notiffeation of Non-eligibility for Designation as a

Participant in the CIA Retirement and Disability System

2, AS you may know, we are in the process of reviewing the employment
history and current career-field of all employees in the Agency to identify
those who are eligible for designation as a participant in the new CIA
Retirement and Disability System, In this process, the initial review of
each case is made by the individual's Career Service. If the Head of his
Career Service nominates him for participation in the System, this nominae
tion is reviewed by the CIA Retirement Board which recommends final action
to me. However, if the Head of the Career Service advises that the employee
docs not meet the basic requirements of IIR 20-50 for participation, I have
accepted this finding without further review by the CIA Retirement Board,
This practice has been adopted in the interest of expediting thia screening 1
Process so that those employees who are eligible to participate in the Sya-
tem may be designated partic{pants as soon aa possible,

2, Un your case, the lead of your Career Service has advised me that
you do not meet the requirements of HR 20-50 for designation as a partict-
pant and 1 have accordingly made the formal determination required by the
regulation that you are not eligible for designation, From a review of your
record it appears that the deciston of your Career Servier was bascd upon
the fact that you do not have sufficient time prior to completing 15 yeara
of service with the Agency in which you could complete a minimun of 60 months
of quality service as required by regulation. My determ{natlon that you
ere net ible at this time for destenadten ta ne vay affects your current
status y the Civil Service Ulremeat Syster, nor ft prectuds reson:
stderation of your cligibllity te partietpate tn the CLA System Lt you should
moet the requirewents for designation tn the future.

3, Should you destre further information concerning the requicements
for designation as a participant in the CLA Retirement System, 1 suggest that
you read paragraph « of HR 20-50 and paragraph 5 of the fmployce Bulletin
dated 30 tuly (965, enticled “public Lav 88-643, The Central Intel klgeace
Ageney Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Umployecs."

4. Tt is always possible that the cecords upon which the determinat ton
made in your se may have becn tneomplete or {nacenrate regarding your actual
emptoywent histary with the Agency, If, after studying the materials cited
above, you have questions regarding the determination that you are noc eligh-
ble to participate in the CEA Retirement Syatem, please fecl free to contact
officials of yous Career Service, They are tamiliar with the detatia of your
Case and will gladly discuss the with reion, may wish ta dis-
cuss your case with the CIA Ketirement Staff lvcated in Rooa 205, Mayuzine
Building (extension 2847). [f such discussions do not resolve any questifoas
you have regacting your eligibility, you may request thet your cnae be iormaliy
consicered by che CLA Retirement Board, Mowever, this request aust be made

vt the date of this memorandum,
4 Le 37) CRE

cooD, Chole

Director of Personnel
SECRET

14-00000

1 MAR 1266

MEMORANDUM FOR: - Secretary, CS/CS Panol (Section A)
SUBJECT : Recommendation for Promotion to

1. The promotion request from GS-12 to GS-13 on
Mrs. Budos-Videla is hereby submitted.

2. This outstanding officor has continued to
perform at the exceptional lovel which has by now
becomo for her a standard of porformance. She now
formally occupies a senior (GS-13) FI Officer slot in
the Mexican Branch and her performance clearly continues
to exceed the requirement tor that position. She is
still considered to be ono of the outstanding women who
have demonstrated thoir capacity for further advancement
within the Agoncy, independently, of the experience on
Mexican affairs acquired through continuity in her

present assignment,

3. The comments mado in connection with the four
previous promotion recommendations continue to be
entirely applicable.

4. Subject is 37 years old and has been tn grade
aeou Gd-12 for the past six yours,

5

Mee ct Com

.Nitlian Vv. Broe
chief,

Wostorn Hemisphere Division

’

mm

eae et
1 tee
os

of

Grade GS-13, Charlotte Z, Bustos-Videla :

14-00000

Q «re ‘965

MEMORANDUM FOR: Secretary, CS/CS Panel (Section A)

SUBJECT : Recommendation for Promotion to
Grade GS-13, Charlotte Z. Bustos-Videla

1, The promotion request from GS-12 to GS-13 on
Mrs, Bustos-Videla is hereby resubmitted. .

2. This outstanding officer has continued to
perform at the exceptional level which has by now
become for her a standard of performance. She now
formally occupies a senior (GS-13) FI Officer slot in
the Mexican Branch and her performance clearly continues
to exceed the requirement for that position, She is
still considered to be one of the outstanding women who
have demonstrated their capacity for further advancement
within the Agency, independently of the exportise on .
Mexican affairs acquired through continuity in her
present assignment.

3. The comments made in connection with the
three previous promotion recommendations continue to
be entirely applicable.

Ow Subreet 16 SG years old and has been in grade
as a GS-12 for the past six years.

Oy aaeee com Side
William V. Broe
Chief,
Western Hentsphere Divéion

14-000004
;

1 Seta, tame 12 NAME Batata Maddley

OOT6567
3 NATURE OP PLRYONNEL ACTION

REASSIGNMEN'

4) scsi TE

PS OFFICER |

14 CLAGGHICALION SCHEOULE

18 Pees,

PROM:

REASSIGNED TO DDP/EE.

i-Security -

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

BUSTOS-YIDELA, Chenier 2.

(lowe | Joee | eess_ ona

13 OCCUPANON.

; 0136.01

TO SE-EFFECTIVE 1 AUGUST 1965

SECRET

1A Bow Fellod be?

DATE PegPARtO.

28 JULY 1965

[o_cncien oate mausHO

aoe | cl a5,

3 CATEGORY OF EMMOTMENT

REGULAR

© LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by Ofer of
Perrvenmcd)

10 LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

WASHINGTON, D.C.

12. POSITION NUMBER 12 CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

CA} 1201 |

SERIES, 19 GRADE AND ster

a“

s-yars //6 70

17 SALARY O8 RATE

12 45

ppp /Wil/MEXICO SECTION/1202/

YRS. BUSTOS-VIDELA WILL REPLACE MR, RICHARD SCUTT WO WILL BE.

aoa
ree Rat rc Sod Cyan [a ens rshiebe
ge aaerne oe : epee
Dd. CASIMIAN | | Be Jess :

SPACE neLow yor

aaa Use OF THE OFFICE of

Gr gration” Pan, wieuate | oa 8
3 cost cont 008

or S e
ie LO [ep 200 _ ‘a han sooo
ras ste jigatl GATS Si serazation 37 con
= yTRENE 7 BALA (OS jEe

pe

eae Carteorr

[iat ete

move tie

Pe fateden

LATE Bttae en” free

eo ereeuree Tce
tars

er) j

|

a wore Si pa —_
é he ES 3
MEE

ASS Prous tet

any
eet FE

‘Ses,

13 OP APrrOWAL

7

SECRET

! i
a Pobsae
uf

"

4 ser 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: Secretary, CSCS (Panel A) ~

SUBJECT : Recommendation for Promotion to GS-13
Mrs. Charlotte Bustos-Videla,
- a

1, The promotion to. GS-13 of Mrs, Charlotte Bustos-Videla
is recommended. Mrs. Rustos-Videla entered the Agency in
August 1951 as a GS-5 and rapidly and deservedly rose to a
GS-12 grado by 1959, .

2, This recommendation is based on Mrs, Rustos-Videla's
performance during the past three years as the senior assist-
ant to the various chiefs of the Mexican desk/branch, who .
unanimously have found her to be extremely competent and re-
liable both in her routine assignments and special tasks
occasionally levied on her, such as country studies, compila-
tion of programs, requirement reviews, etc, .

3, Mrs, tustes-Videlw hes consistently responded with
intelligence and clarity and bes materially centributed to
orderly imaginative administration of Headquarters support to
ad most active station. In the -precess, she has been instru-
wental in training on-the-job innumerable officers both for
desk assiynments and in preparation for field assignments.

4, For her outstanding performance sho racelved a quality
step increase in April 1964. This deserved recognition should
now be followed un at this time by a promotion to the next
grade in accordance with the consistently good performance at
the GS-13 level over a prolonged period of time,

y4-00g00

8 S CORFIDENTIAL

14 APR 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: Head, Clandestine Services Career Service

SUBJECT : Notification of Approval of Quality Step Increase «
Mra. Charlotte Bustos-Videla os

1, Iam pleased to send to you the attached official notification
of the approval of the Quality Step Increase which you recommended |
for this employee,

2. The salary increase accomplished by the award of a Quality.