14-00000
104-10098-10404
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DIRECTOR
MEXICO CITY
CAC 3
ROUTING
DELTANT, L/14, C/FE 6, C/SWG, CAL, 6/8435,
211C63 IN 85224

NOW ADOPT,
VA
JRET
2101037
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
7492
END HOME SOME CITI YDXT 7408
DIN 70123*
07859575.02

THE KENWAY POINTER
SECRET
02

1. ALONG LINES HOLL REYED TO REP 6: 3657 A:
!. DAY BEFORE HURRICANE CYNTHIA HIT CUBA.
2. BETWEEN 900 AND 200 SOVIET TECKS LEFT BY SHIP FROM SANTIAGO DE CUBA. ON 10 NOV
APPROX 200 SOVS WERE SEEN WALKING STREETS NACARA WITH SUITCASES
PRIOR DEBARCATION.
(SOURCE [REGION] DOI: 9 DEC).
ALL SOVS APPEAR TO BE TECHS, ALTHO YOUNG. MOST OBSERVED
DESIGNATED HAD NO MILITARY BEARING, IN SLOPPY PHYSICAL SHAPE,
OR HIS ASSUMPTION THEY CIVILIANS.

FRIEND ERIC BONSITE (MON) LIVES ON ROAD TO PINAR DEL RIO, TOLD A SIX MONTHS
THE SOVS. DID NOT.
THEIR CAMP NEAR EL TA ROCA,
FOR THE LAST THREE MONTHS CUBAN OFFICIALS ENTER IN LARGE
OF SOVS HAS BEEN REDUCED BY TWO
AND THE TOTAL
IN SOROA CLOSED DOWN ABOUT SIX MONTHS

RIVING WITH FAMILIES.
(SOURCE
SEEN IN UNIFORM, ALL MERO SPORT CHICOTS OF VARIOUS
16.1 APPARENTLY CUBAN MADE.
SYMBOLIC OF PLAYBOYS. IN A
CHINECTORS IN PALE LUS TUNLO
RAS, OF COURSE, SINCE
EASY TO TAKE
10 OF NO OTHER ASIATICS,
LITE TYS.

ON 13 DEC TEN
MATANZAS TO VERAS.
IBED AS. SOVIET TYPE
CATE THEY HAD SLAVES
S SMALLER THAN MATES OFF GROUND.
DOUBLE TURRETS,
LA TAKNON. ON
EN GOING SAME DIRECTION)
HC SA LARGE TRUCKS DRIVER BY SOVS AND CARRYING FIVE
PER SAME DAY BAY FLY HOR ALL GOING FROM RANCHO
TODATA AREA TOWARDS THE INTERIOR.
11 VISIT. ALL SOVS IN 22-28 AGE GROUP.

4. SEE TWO, ABOVE.
5. FLOW OF SOVS IS CONSISTENT WITH NEEDS CASTRO GOVT. MANY
MANY MORE WILL COMP IS NEED ARISES.
REST IS "SOVS HERE TO STAY”.

TYPICAL ATTITUDE OF MAN
INFO SOVS. IN. CUBAN MILITIA UNIFORMS
NAPARTEZ
NSITIVE TO GUARD
CAN MOVE AGAIN
REALITY
POVIST

LIFE: MAGOC OFFICIAL OPPOSES FOR FEAR OF OWN LIFE.
PAGE 3"
EVENT
OPPOSITION WOULD HAVE NO VALUE OR BEARING. COMMON QUOTE: "FIDEL
HACE FIDEL DESHACE".
3. SEE ONE, ABOVE.
4. NOT KNOWN, BUT CUBAN POSITION IN DISPUTE VERY INDEPENDENT,
UNAFFECTED.

PART C
1. MOST OF THE MILITIA PERSONNEL HAVE BEEN CONVERTED TO
ARMY REGULARS PAST SIX MONTHS.
2.
3. IMPRESSION IS THAT CUBAN ARMY NOW WELL TRAINED AND
ORGANIZED.

4. ON TEN DEC. WAR SOROA, ALL CARS HALTED ON ROAD WHILE
CONTINGENT CUBAN TROOPS SURROUNDED A CANE FIELD AND SPRAYED IT
WITH GUNFIRE, SEARCHED IT, BUT FOUND NO ONE. TROOPS WELL FED AND
SUPPLIED. (SOURCE: RENITA ROCA, 9 DEC). SOROA APPROX 80 KMS
FROM PARINA TCHARDS PINAR DEL RIO.
SECRET
C/ CHET: 926 NIGAY INTERSECTED [] SICCARS RETURNED CUBA AS OBSERVER SKELETON,
11795
