```markdown
“(104-10193-10077 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992] |

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT: CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

HICKS, CALVIN.
FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME:
OP FILE
INCLUSIVE DATES:
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:
ROOM:
DELETIONS, IF ANY:
DATE RECEIVED RETURNED
6 AUG 1978
DATE
REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
9/28/78
HARDWAY

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

14-00000

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION
SERIAL NUMBER
056361
NAME (LAST FIRST-MIDDLE)
HICKS, CALVIN W
NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION
EFFECTIVE DATE
CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT
CIA RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY
SYSTEM AND CANCELLATION OF NSCA
FUNDS
V TO V
TO CF
CF TO V
TO CF
ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS
5222 4116
LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
POSITION TITLE
POSITION NUMBER
SERVICE DESIGNATION
WATCH OFFICER
0947
DAA
CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, etc.)
OCCUPATIONAL SERIES
GRADE AND STEP
SALARY OR RATE
GS
0132.07
13 9
27,632
REMARKS

1152
MFG 8-73
Use Previous
Edition
SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

14-00000
SECRET
(When filled in)
REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION
DATE PREPARED
24 January 1975
SERIAL NUMBER
NAME (Last-First-Middle)
056361
HICKS, Calvin W.
NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION
Retirement (Disability)
Under CIA Retirement & Disability
System & Cancellation of NSCA
EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED
27 December 1974
FUNDS
CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT
Regular
LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by Office of
Personnel)
Public Law 88-643,
Section 231
ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS
DDO/Operations Staff
Intelligence Group
Intelligence Watch Branch
LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
Wash., D. C.
POSITION TITLE
POSITION NUMBER
CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION
Watch Officer
0947
DAA
CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, etc.)
OCCUPATIONAL SERIES
GRADE AND STEP
SALARY OR RATE
GS
0132.07
13 9
26,189.
REMARKS
LWD: 27 December 1974
Orig - CNG/MID
1 - Payroll
1 - OPS/SP
Co-ordinated with Paul Seidel/ROB
30 January 1975.
1BA SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL
DATE SIGNED
188 SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING OFFICER
DATE SIGNED
S. J. Harding, C/OPS/SP 27/1/75
ACTION
CODE
EMPLOY.
CODE
OFFICE CODING
STATION
CODE
NUMERIC
ALPHABETIC
INTEGREE
CODE
HOGTRS
DATE OF BIRTH
DATE OF GRADE
DATE OF LEI
YR
SPECIAL
RETIREMENT DATA
SEPARATION
CORRECTION/CANCELLATION DATA
SECURITY
SEX
VET PREFERENCE
SERV COMP DATE
LONG. COMP DATE
CAREER CATEGORY
FEGLI/HEALTH INSURANCE
SOCIAL SECURITY NO.
PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT SERVICE
LEAVE CAT.
FEDERAL TAX DATA
STATE TAX DATA
POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION
DATE APPROVED
FORM
USE PREVIOUS EDITION
SECRET

14-00000
ADMINISTRATIVE
INTERNAL USE ONLY
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chairman, Board of Medical Examiners
SUBJECT: Request for Medical Evaluation
Mr. Calvin W. Hicks

1. Subject, a participant in the CIA Retirement and Disability
System, has applied for disability retirement under the provisions of
Section 231 of Public Law 88-643, Central Intelligence Agency
Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees. It is requested that
a medical examination be arranged for Subject and that a written
report of the Board of Medical Examiners as prescribed in paragraph
f. (4) of HR 20-50 be submitted to the Director of Personnel.

2. Attached are copies of the Supervisor's Statement, the
Application for Disability Retirement, and a private physician's
statement.

3. Subject intends to remain on duty until a decision is made
regarding his application for disability retirement.

R. L. Austin, Jr.
Deputy Director of Personnel
for Special Programs

Attachments:
a. Supervisor's Statement
b. Application
c. Physician's Statement

Distribution:
0 & 1 Addressee
1 - D/Pers
1 - OPF
1 - ROB Soft File
1 - ROB Reader

OP/RAD/ROB/Reid

14-00000
10 December 1973
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Career Management Group
SUBJECT: Promotion of Mr. Calvin W. Hicks

1. I would solicit Career Management Group and the Promotion Panel
to consider the overall career of Calvin W. Hicks when deciding on the cur-
rent cycle of promotions from GS-13 to GS-14.

2. After Mr. Hicks EOD in 1950, he advanced rapidly in three years
to GS-11. He was promoted to GS-12 in 1956, six years later to GS-13 in
1962, and since then has been almost 12 years in grade. He has had over-
seas tours with FE and NE Divisions, has served as a training instructor, on
a PM task force, and with Miami Ops and area branches in WH. In these
assignments he consistently received Strong ratings. Despite a largely para-
military background, in 1967 he adjusted to the intelligence production cycle
and developed the skills of an operations officer doing operations-oriented
reports work in the Intelligence Watch. As of this date he has the longest
continuity in the Intelligence Watch and is rated as a mature and thoughtful
individual who exercises excellent professional judgment. He was recom-
mended for promotion from GS-13 to GS-14 in April 1968 and in April 1969.
In 1970 he was recommended for a QSI by FI Chief, Peer deSilva. He was
again recommended for promotion in March 1971, in November 1972, and in
November 1973.

3. Admittedly, promotions are competitive and the rankings are rela-
tive and must be adjusted to the headroom available. The overall history of
his career would seem to argue the equity of granting the often recommended
promotion to Mr. Calvin Hicks as he nears the end of a career. Mr. Hicks is
49 years old and has a family of five children. He has a medical hold which
will not allow him to serve overseas at this time and he therefore, contem-
plates retirement at age 50 (in late 1974). He is and will be until then a
valuable member of the Intelligence Watch.

4. I recommend that the promotion which has escaped him in the last
decade be granted at the time of this year's promotion cycle.

L. A. Campbell
Chief, Operations Staff

14-00000
13 November 1973
MEMORANDUM FOR:
SUBJECT:
Career Management Group
Mid-Career Officer Branch
Recommendation for the Promotion of Calvin W. Hicks (056361)
to GS-14

1. I would again like to recommend the promotion of subject officer from
GS-13 to GS-14. Mr. Hicks has been with the Intelligence Watch since June 1967
and his performance has been characterized consistently by exceptional proficiency.
He serves on a rotating schedule with seven other officers doing identical work,
some of whom are currently in GS-14.

2. A medical hold has precluded any further overseas assignments and for
this reason his stay in IW has been extended until November 1974, when he will
be 50-years-old at which time he plans to retire under the Agency retirement
system.

3. Mr. Hicks' resourcefulness and ability to apply the multitude of
reporting instructions and techniques have been convincingly demonstrated in
crisis situations such as the recent Chilean coup and the Middle-Eastern crisis.
He has consistently displayed initiative and good judgment in meeting unforeseen
crisis with rapid and effective action and has clearly demonstrated his ability
to continuously adjust to rotating shifts and the irregular flow of traffic.

4. For his sustained high level of performance in 1972 Mr. Hicks received
a quality step increase in recognition and as proof of the high esteem in which
he is held by his superiors. He occupies a GS-14 slot. His promotion is again
recommended in recognition of his long years of Agency service.

Joseph A. Procaccino
C/OPS/INT/IW

Concur:
Eloise R. Page, C/OPS/INT
E2 IMPDET CLBY 002025

SECRET
26 September 1973
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Operations Staff
SUBJECT: Appreciation of IW Performance During
Chilean Upheaval

1. The officers of the Intelligence Watch (IW) performed
admirably in swiftly processing the heavy flow of intelligence
engendered by the recent political upheaval in Chile. In many
instances, reports were in the hands of customers in the intel-
ligence community within minutes of being filed in Santiago.

2. Please extend to the IW officers concerned the appre-
ciation of this Division for their fine performance. I suggest that
a copy of this memorandum be placed in the personnel folder of
each of the officers concerned.

David A. Phillips
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

SECRET
E2 IMPDET
CL BY 039964

14-00000
121773
SECRET
(When Filled in]
NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION
1. SERIAL NUMBER
2 NAME (LAST FIRST-MIDDLE)
056361
HICKS CALVIN W
NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION
4 EFFECTIVE DATE
S CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT
REASSIGNMENT
FUNDS
73
X
7 FAN AND NA
Y.TO V
TO CF
(F TO V
σ to σ
ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS
OCO/FI STAFF
4222 4116 0001
10. SOLATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
WASH., D.C.
CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORn
11 POSITION TITLE
:
WATCH OFFICER.
12 POSISION NUMBER
13 CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION
0947
14 CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, ak}
GS
15 OCCUPATIONAL SERIES
16. GRADE AND STEP
0
17 SALARY OR RATE
0132.07
13
1 REMARKS
Use Previous
Edition
SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION
POSTED
J.F.BLAKE
+C
(+51)
SECRET
"E 2 IMPDET CL BY 007622"

14-00000
SECRET
13 APR 1972
MEMORANDUM FOR: Calvin W. Hicks
SUBJECT: Quality Step Increase

1. I was pleased to learn that you have been
granted a Quality Step Increase. Such recognition
is proof of the high esteem in which you are held
by your supervisors in the Clandestine Service.

2. Please accept my personal best wishes. I
am confident that your future performance will be
of a continuing high quality.

/S/ Cord Moyer, Jr.
For
Thomas H. Karamessines
Deputy Director for Plans

CSPS/SOB/Hileberman; rv (11Apr72)

Distribution:
Orig - Addressee
1 - OP/Files
1 - DDP/Registry
1 - S/SOD
1 - C/SOD/Pers
1 - CSPS/Subject File.

SECRET

14-00000
CONFIDENTIAL
10 APR 1972
MEMORANDUM FOR: Secretary, DDP/QSI - HMA Panel
SUBJECT: Notification of Approval of
Quality Step Increase
Calvin W. Hicks

1. I'am pleased to send to you the attached
official notification of the approval of the Quality Step
Increase which you recommended for this employee.

2. As this award is designed to encourage
excellence by recognizing and rewarding the employee,
may I ask that you arrange to have this Quality Step
Increase presented at an appropriate ceremony.

Harry B. Fisher
Director of Personnel

CONFIDENTIAL
GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
Geclassics P

14-00000
SECRET
530 1971
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Foreign Intelligence Staff
SUBJECT: Intelligence Watch Assistance to
European Division

1 As I am preparing to leave the European Division,
a note of appreciation is in order for the services rendered
to us for the four years of my tenure here by the officers
of the Intelligence Watch.

2. At a time of increasingly complicated intelligence
collection and reporting problems, our Agency has come of
age.. We have recognized that information often cannot be
allowed to wait for attention until sunrise, and that we
must be able to respond to national needs and world events
pround the clock. The Intelligence Watch, more than any
other single institution, has made it possible for us to
do this. We have benefited from its cooperation particularly
under strained reporting conditions during Presidential.
trips abroad, for instance -- but have also found IW's
presence and judgment helpful at other times. I know that
my staff relied on IW extensively.

3. I am making a point of recognizing this because
the Intelligence Watch a bit like our Agency as a whole
is apt to get more attention with an occasional slip than
with a record of continuing accomplishment and success in
coping with problems. From what I have been able to observe,
the job has been well done.

4. I hope you will bring this memorandum to the
attention of those concerned.

John L. Hart
Chief
European Division

Joseph Procaccino Howard Orr
Walter Kuzmuk Calvin Hicks
Robert Heron George Papadopolós
James Pekich Robert Sawicki
Frank Levy Pat Coble

SECRET

14-00000
SECRET
(be Filled 16).
REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION
DATE PREPARED
22 December 1971
SERIAL NUMBER
2. Na (Last-First-Middley
Hicks, Calvin
056361
3 NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION
Reassignment..
FUNDS
OP TO V
στο σ
DESIGNATIONS
DDP/FI Staff
Intelligence Group
Intelligence Watch''
11. POSITION TITLE
Watch Officer.
14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS. LB. k.)
GS
RSMARKS
4 EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED
DAT
12/23/77
7 FINANCIAL ANALYSIS NO.
CHARGEABLE.
2222-4116
10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
S-CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT
Regular
LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by Office of
Personnel)
Washington, D. C.
12 POSITION NUMBER
13 CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION
(14)
0947
D
15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES
16 GRADE AND STEP
17. SALARY OR RATE
0132.07
13
7
21,313 /
HB:
SOD
Reassigned from Position FI/INT/IW
Distribution:
Orig.
-
CSPS/SOB
1 - FI/Pers
1032
ISA SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL -
Hardi
C/FI/SG
DATE SIGNED
183 SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING OFFICER
22 Dec 71
DATE SIGNED
SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL
22. STATION
24 HDQTRS 25 DATE OF TH
CODE
ACTION 20. EMPLOY
CODE
21.
OFFICE CODING
CODE
MUNIC
ALPHABETIC
ر
3000
23. INTEGREE
CODE
MO.
DA
108/24
12-27.71
MO.
26 DATE OF GRADE
DA.
27
DATE OF LEI
YA.
MO. DA.
THE EXPIRES
29 SPECIAL
LEN
REFERENCE
30
RETIREMENT DATA
MO.
DA VR
toge
ORG
MORE
35 VET PREFERENCE
3S COMP DATE
CODE
0-NONE
CA
YR
37 LONG COMP DATE.
MO DA. YR
CODE
1-5 PT.
2-10 PT
11108124
31 SEPARATION 32 CORRECTION/CANCELLATION DATA
DATA CODE
0,HE,00,0,0
18 CAREER CATEGORY
CAR/RESY
PROV/TEMP
33 SECURITY
34 SEX
REQ NO.
TYPE
MO
DA
12
EOD DATA
39
CODE
FEGLE/HEALTH INSURANCE
40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.
-WAIVER
1-136.
2-88/009
ELIGIBLE
HEALTH INS CODE
41
PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT SERVICE
42. LEAVE CAT.
CODE
43.
FEDERAL TAX DATA
14
STATE TAX DATA
CODE
9-NO PREVICES SERVICE
1-NG BREA
SERVICE
FORM EXECUTED CODE
1-YES
Z-NO
NO TAX EXEMPTIONS
FORM EXECUTED
E-TES
2-80
CODE NO. TAX STATE
EXEMP.
46. OP APPROVAL
T.
2-BREAK IN SERVICE LESS THEAR 3 YEARS)
3-BREAK 18 SERVICE, MORE THAN 3 YEARS)
45. POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION
FORM
16.
02
8-721152
USE PREVIOUS EDITION
07 FEB 1975
DATE APPROVED
Carton 1/34/75
SECRET
01-0332
CLASSIFIED BY
EX-2
APDIR
P
(4)

14-00000
Not approved
MEMORANDUM FOR: SECRETARY, CSPS/SECTION A
SUBJECT:
5 MARCH 1971
RECOMMENDATION FOR THE PROMOTION OF CALVIN
(056361) TO GS-14
HICKS
1.
RECOMMEND THE PROMOTION OF SUBJECT OFFICER FROM GS-13 to GS-14.
MR. HICKS HAS BEEN ASSIGNED TO THE INTELLIGENCE WATCH/FI STAFF SINCE JUNE
1967 AND SERVES ON A ROTATING" SCHEDULE WITH SEVEN OTHER OFFICERS DOING
IDENTICAL WORK, FOUR OF WHOM ARE CURRENTLY IN GRADE GS-14.
2. MR. HICKS HAS BEEN IN THE INTELLIGENCE WATCH (IW) FOR ALMOST.
FOUR YEARS AND HIS WORK, BOTH QUANTITATIVELY AND QUALITATIVELY, HAS BEEN
CONSISTENTLY OF A VERY HIGH CALIBER..
3.
HIS KEENLY DEVELOPED SENSE OF OPERATIONAL SECURITY RESULTING FROM
HIS EXTENSIVE PARAMILITARY EXPERIENCE; COUPLED WITH. HIS CLEAR UNDERSTAND-
ING OF THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN OPERATIONS AND INTELLIGENCE, HAS MADE HIM
A VERY FINE OFFICER AND A VALUABLE ASSET TO IW. HE HAS BEEN UNDER MY SU-
PERVISION FOR 18 MONTHS AND I HAVE HAD AMPLE OPPORTUNITY TO OBSERVE MIST
PERFORMANCE UNDER CONDITIONS OF STRESS. HE VERY ABLY APPLIES A MULTITUDE
OF DETAIL AND GENERAL REPORTING INSTRUCTIONS TO THE DIFFERENT. SITUATIONS
MANIFEST IN EACH INCOMING REPORT AND DISPLAYS INITIATIVE IN MEETING UN-
FORESEEN CRISES WITH RAPID AND EFFECTIVE ACTION. SINCE THE INTELLIGENCE
INFORMATION IS THE FACE THAT THE CLANDESTINE SERVICE PUTS OUT TO THE IN-
TELLIGENCE COMMUNITY, THE PERFORMANCE OF WATCH OFFICERS IS OF GREAT
IMPORTANCE. THIS FACTOR BECOMES APPARENT WHEN IT IS NOTED THAT OVER
75 PERCENT OF ALL CABLED INTELLIGENCE REPORTS ARE DISSEMINATED BY IW.
4. MR. HICKS HAS AN EXTENSIVE BACKGROUND IN PARAMILITARY OPERATIONS
BOTH IN THE FIELD AND AT HEADQUARTERS. ALL OF HIS FITNESS REPORTS FOR THE
SIX YEARS PRECEDING HIS ASSIGNMENT TO IW HAVE BORNE THE OVERALL RATING
OF "STRONG. HE HAS BEEN DESCRIBED AS "HIGHLY MOTIVATED, SINCERE, AND.
CAPABLE. ALSO, "HE WORKS WELL WITH OTHERS AND HIS KNOWLEDGE AND ABILITY
ARE RESPECTED. OTHER SUPERVISORS DURING THE YEARS PRIOR TO THIS ASSIGN→
*MENT HAVE DESCRIBED HIM AS "SERICUS, HARD-WORKING AND DEPENDABLE."
His
PERFORMANCE IN HIS PRESENT ASSIGNMENT HAS DEMONSTRATED THESE SAME QUALI
TIES.
11
5. MR. HICKS IS A DISTINCT ASSET TO IW AND I HIGHLY RECOMMEND HIS
FOR PROMOTION TO GS-14.
SECRET
Руварский
COSEPH A. PROCACCINO
CHIEF, FI/INT/IW

14-00000
SECRET
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chairman, DDP QSI and Honor and Merit
Awards Panel
SUBJECT: Request for Quality Step Increase
Mr. Calvin W. HICKS, GS-13 (056361)
12 FEB 19/05
Glat approved
1 I recommend that a Quality Step Increase be
awarded to Mr. Calvin W. Hicks.
2. Mr. Hicks is one of three officers in the Intel-
ligence Watch, FI Staff, on whom identical recommendations
are being submitted. These officers, all in grade GS-13,
have for several years done responsible and demanding work,
identical to that done in the same office by five other of-
'ficers, GS-14 and 15, and all three have been rated "Strong."
3. The Intelligence Watch is the primary intelligence
dissemination office of the Clandestine Service. Its out-
put of over 2,000 reports a month is the chief end-product
of CS collection operations. Watch Officers serve on a
rotating schedule. When an officer draws the night shift
'he serves alone. He must make quick, independent dissemina-
tion decisions. Mr. Hicks has done well at this work.
is alert and conscientious and has a sharp operational sense
which is extremely useful in the handling of CS intelligence
information. He has been recommended several times for pro-
motion to GS-14.
}
He
4. The high quality of Mr. Hicks's performance has
continued for more than two years. There is no reason to
expect any decline in it. His enthusiasm continues, and
his tour has recently been extended for another two years.
5. Consideration has been given to recommending him
for an Honor and Merit Award, but on balance I believe that
a Quality Step Increase would be more appropriate.
Pan di Sik
Peer de Silva
Chief
Foreign Intelligence
"
SECRET
GROUP 1
Excluded trax nismatc
Iassification

14-00000
SUBJECT
SECRET
Request for Quality Step Increase
Mr. Calvin W. HICKS, GS-13 (056361).
APPROVAL RECOMMENDED:
Chairman, CS QSI Panel
Date
Director of Personnel
SECRET
Date

14-00000
SECRET
G'MARCH 1969
MEMORANDUM FOR.: Chief FI Staff
SUBJECT
Performance of the Intelligence Watch
During the President's Trip to Europe
1. Now that the President's trip to Europë` has bĉem
conclúded.. Feel that a special commendation ïbes the
Intel Watch (1W) is in order.
:
2. The contribution that is being made by the officers
in the Intelligence Watch is often taken for granted. Thus
it was natural for us, when we formed our task force for
the President's trip, to bid qui arrangements for positive.
intelligence disseminations, around, the tw's twenty-four-
hour-a-day availability. We were not disappointed; The
'system worked smoothly and efficiently.
3. In addition to that, it became clear that the
Intelligence Watch officers were willing and able to go
beyond the simple call of duty. We came to admire their
competence, courtesy, and cooperation, without which
effective intelligence coverage would have been immeasur-
ably more difficult. Since the TW's were working under.
an unusual strain, caused by the simultaneous outbreak of
crises in different parts of the world, their performance
is that much more to be commended.
4. Please convey our appreciation to all officers who
had a part in this fine effort.
CALVIN M, HICKS
SECRET
John L. Hurt
Chief,
European Division
05209.1
Excluded a

14-00000
SECRET
7 March 1969.
MEMORANDUM FOR:
SUBJECT:
Mi Edward J. Carroi
Chief, Intelligence Watch
Performance of the Intelligence
Watch during President Nixon's
recent Visit to Europe
1. I wish to commend you and each member of
your staff who participated in the support which
the Agency was called on to render to the Presi-
dential party during its recent travel abroad.
From Several quarters. I have had verbal expres-
sions of praise and commendation and to these I
wish to add my own in writing. I am enclosing a
copy of a memorandum from the Chief, European
Division, which reflects both my thoughts and the
reactions I have heard from others.
2. I hope you will take appropriate action
so that the personer files of each of your par-
ticipating officers will reflect this appreciation.
You may wish to make copies of my memorandum and
Mr. Hart's memorandum to serve this purpose.
Peci de Sch
Peor de Silva
Chief
Foreign Intelligence
Enclosure
CALVIN M. HICKS
SECRET
Exclus

14-00000
Affrabel by
Parel a dict. 1
CS
SECRET
24 JUN 1969
9 April 1969
MEMORANDUM FOR:
SUBJECT
Secretary, CSPS/Section A
Recommendation for the promotion of
Calvin Hicks (056361) to GS-14
1. I recommend the promotion of subject officer from GS-13 to
CS-14. Mr. Hicks has been assigned to the Intelligence Watch/FI Staff
since June 1967, and serves on a rotating schedule with seven other
officers doing identical work, five of whom are currently in Grade CS-14.
2. Mr. Hicks has been with TW for almost two years and his work,
both quantitatively and qualitatively has been consistently of a very
high caliber. Normally six months are required before an officer newly
assigned to the Intelligence watch is able to handle a shift by himself.
At least a year is required before a Watch Officer. can perform at a high
level of proficiency. However, in the case of this officer, in a little
more than a year he had earned the rating of "Strong" and has maintained
it ever since. Although most of his 'gency experience had been in para-
military operations, he adapted quickly to the demands of his new assign-
ment. His keenly developed sense of operational security, coupled with
his clear understanding of the relationship between operations and
intelligence, has made him a very fine officer and a valuable asset to
T. He has been under my supervision for 16 months and I have had ample
opportunity to observe his performance under conditions of stress. He is
even tempered and level headed. His mistakes are few and infrequent and
these are usually of the clerical variety, not in matters of judgment. I
continue to be impressed with his thoroughness in handling information;
with the evidence of his coordination when the interests of more than one
division are involved. Since operations have to be submerged and the
intelligence is the portion of the iceberg which shows to the intelligence
community, the performance of the Watch Officers is of great importance.
This factor becomes apparent when it is noted that about 80% of all cabled
intelligence reports are disseminated by the Intelligence Watch. Recently
the Watch Officers were commended by the Chief, FI Staff and the Chief,
Europe Division for their performance during the Fresident's trip to
Western Europe. The simultaneous outbreak of crises in different parts of
the world further added to the burdens of the Watch Office at that time.
Mr. Hicks made a real contribution during that period and deserves the
commendation personally in a high degree.
SEGRET
17

14-00000
SECRET
3. Prior to his assignment to the Intelligence Watch, Mr. Hicks
served with WH Division and with the Cuban Operation. He has an exten-
sive background in paremilitary operations both in the field and at
headquarters. All of his Fitness Reports for the six years preceding
his assignment to the Intelligence Watch have borne the overall rating
of "strong." He has been described as "highly motivated", "sincere and
capable." He has been further complimented as "working well with others..
and his knowledge and ability are respected." Other supervisors have
described him as "serious, hard-working and dependable." His performance
in his present assignment has demonstrated these same qualities. He has
managed the transition from active operations to the life of a desk bound
intelligence officer with ease. I recommend him with enthusiasm for
promotion to GS-14.
SECRET
Edward Coll
Edward J. Carroll
Chief, FI/INT/IW

14-00000
Not Approved by
CS
Sorico
24 OCTOBER 1968
NEMORANDUM FOR: SECRETARY, CSPS/SECTION A
SUBJECT:
RECOMMENDATION FOR THE PROMOTION OF
CALVIN W. HICKS (056361) to GS-14
1. 1 RECOMMEND THE PROMOTION OF SUBJECT OFFICER FROM GS-13
TO GS-14.
MR. HICKS HAS BEEN ASSIGNED. TO THE INTELLIGENCE WATCH/
FI STAFF SINCE JUNE 1967, WHERE HE SERVES ON A ROTATING SCHEDULE
WITH SEVEN OTHER OFFICERS DOING IDENTICAL WORK; FIVE OF WHOM ARE
CURRENTLY IN GRADE GS-14.
2. MR. HICKS HAS BEEN WITH IW FOR ABOUT 16 MONTHS AND HIS
WORK, BOTH QUANTITAVELY AND QUALITATIVELY, HAS SEEN CONSISTENTLY
OF VERY HIGH CALIBER. NORMALLY SIX MONTHS ARE REQUIRED BEFORE AN
OFFICER NEWLY ASSIGNED TO THE INTELLIGENCE WATCH IS ABLE TO HANDLE
A SHIFT BY HIMSELF. AT LEAST A YEAR IS USUALLY REQUIRED BEFORE A
"
MAN CAN ADVANCE FROM "ADEQUATE" TO "PROFICIENT." AT PRESENT, MR.
HE IS
HICKS HAS ALREADY PROGRESSED TO THE RATING OF "STRONG."
ALERT AND CONSCIENTIOUS AND HAS AN OPERATIONAL SENSE WHICH IS IN-
VALUABLE IN THE HANDLING OF INTELLIGENCE.. WITH HIS EXTENSIVE
OPERATIONAL AND PARAMILITARY BACKGROUND, MR. HICKS HAS A FINE
SENSE FOR THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN OPERATIONS AND ITS PRIMARY
PRODUCT, THE CLANDESTINE SERVICES INTELLIGENCE REPORT.
THIS OF
FICER HAS BEEN UNDER MY SUPERVISION FOR 11 MONTHS AND DURING THAT
PERIOD HAVE HAD AMPLE OPPORTUNITY TO OBSERVE HIS CONDUCT UNDER
CONDITIONS OF STRESS. HE IS EVEN TEMPERED AND LEVEL HEADED. His
NISTAKES ARE FEW AND INFREQUENT. I AM PARTICULARLY IMPRESSED
WITH HIS THOROUGHNESS IN HANDLING INFORMATION; WITH THE EVIDENCE
OF THE COORDINATION WHICH HE SO OFTEN ATTEMPTS WITH SEVERAL AREA
DIVISIONS WHEN NECESSARY BEFORE DISSEMINATING A REPORT TO THE
INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY. SINCE THE INTELLIGENCE INFORMATION RE-
PORT IS THE FACE THAT THE CLANDESTINE SERVICES SHOWS TO THE IN-
TELLIGENCE ANALYST AND THE POLICY OFFICERS OF THE GOVERNMENT, THE
TH. S
PERFORMANCE OF THE WATCH OFFICERS IS OF GREAT IMPORTANCE.
FACTOR BECOMES APPARENT WHEN ONE NOTES THAT ABOUT 80 PERCENT OF
ALL CABLED INTELLIGENCE REPORTS ARE DISSEMINATED BY THE INTELLI-
GENCE WATCH.
HE
3. PRIOR TO HIS ASSIGNMENT TO THE INTELLIGENCE WATCH, MR.
HICKS SERVED WITH WH DIVISION AND WITH THE CUBAN OPERATION.
HAS AN EXTENSIVE BACKGROUND IN PARAMILITARY OPERATIONS BOTH IN

14-00000
RECOMMENDATION
CALVIN W. HICKS (CONTINUED) PAGE 2
THE FIELD AND AT HEADQUARTERS.
ALL OF HIS FITNESS REPORTS FOR
THE SIX YEARS PRECEDING MIS. ASSIGNMENT TO THE INTELLIGENCE WATCH
HAVE BORNE HE OVERALL RATING OF "STRONG." HE HAS BEEN
DESCRIBED AS "HIGHLY MOTIVATED, SINCERE AND CAPABLE." ALSO, "HE
WORKS WELL WITH OTHERS AND HIS WEDGE- AND ABILITY ARE RE-
SPECTED.' OTHER SUPERVISORS DURING THE YEARS IMMEDIATELY PRIOR
TO THIS ASSIGNMENT, HAVE DESCRIBED HIM AS "SERIOUS, HARD-WORKING
AND DEPENDABLE." HIS PERFORMANCE IN HIS PRESENT ASSIGNMENT HAS
DEMONSTRATED THESE SAME QUALITIES. ALTHOUGH NIGHT SEEM SUR-
PRISING THAT A MAN OF HIS OUT-GOING PERSONALITY WITH AN EXTENSIVE
BACKGROUND IN PARAMILITARY OPERATIONS COULD ADJUST TO THE LIFE OF
A DESK-SOUND PRODUCER OF INTELLIGENCE REPORTS, MR. HICKS HAS MAN-
AGED THIS TRANSITION WITH THE GREATEST OF EASE. HE IS A DISTINCT
ASSET TO THIS OFFICE AND THE UNDERSIGNED WILL FEEL GRATEFUL IF
HE SHOULD DECIDE TO EXTEND HIS TOUR IN THE INTELLIGENCE WATCH BE-
YOND THE NORMAL TWO YEARS. 1 RECOMMEND HIM WITH ENTHUSIASM FOR
PROMOTION TO GS-141
Kavall
EDWARD J. CARROLL
. Cir, FL/INT/EW
ATTACHMENT
SAČRET
P

14-00000
SECRET
5 APRIL 1968
MEMORANDUM FOR: SECRETARY, CSPS/SECTION A
SUBJECT:
RECOMMENDATION FOR THE PROMOTION OF
CALVIN W. HICKS (056361) TO GS-14
1. 1. RECOMMEND THE PROMOTION OF SUBJECT OFFICE FROM GS-13
TO GS-14. MR. HICKS HAS BEEN ASSIGNED TO THE INTELLIGENCE WATCH,
FI STAFF SINCE JUNE 1967 WHERE HE SERVES ON A ROTATING SCHEDULE
WITH SEVEN OTHER OFFICERS DOING IDENTICAL WORK, FIVE OF WHOM ARE
CURRENTLY IN GRADE GS-14.
2. ALTHOUGH MR. HICKS HAS BEEN WITH TW LESS THAN A YEAR,
HIS WORK BOTH QUANTITATIVELY AND QUALITATIVELY IS OF VERY HIGH
CALIBER. HE IS ALERT ANO CONSCIENTIOUS AND NEVER TAKES THE EASY
WAY OUT IN HANDLING CABLED FIELD INTELLIGENCE REPORTS. LOG CARDS
WHICH RECORD THE ACTION TAKEN ON EACH REPORT INDICATE THE SERIOUS-
NESS WITH WHICH HE APPROACHES HIS' DAILY TASKS. THESE CARDS
FREQUENTLY INDICATE TIME SPENT BY HIM IN CONSULTATION WITH AS MANY
AS THREE AREA DIVISIONS ON OCCASION BEFORE ISSUING A REPORT WHICH
WILL BE DISSEMINATED TO THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY. THE EXERCISE
OF GOOD JUDGMENT IS AN ESSENTIAL ELEMENT IN THE PROPER FUNCTION-
ING OF THIS OFFICE, UPON WHICH THE AGENCY'S REPUTATION TO A
CERTAIN EXTENT DEPENDS. SINCE THE FINISHED INTELLIGENCE INFORMA-
TION REPORT IS THE FACE THAT THE CLANDESTINE SERVICES SHOWS TO
THE INTELLIGENCE ANALYSTS AND THE POLICY OFFICERS OF THIS .GOVERN-
MENT, THE PERFORMANCE OF aT HE WATCH OFFICERS IS OF PARAMOUNT
IMPORTANCE. THIS FACTOR BECOMES EXTREMELY OBVIOUS WHEN ONE NOTCS
THAT MORE THAN 80% OF