```markdown
[14-00000]
[104-10182-10073]
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: WICKES, ALASTAIR
INCLUSIVE DATES: 201-801702
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:
THIRD AGENCY MATERIAL

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

SOURCE CRYPTONYM:
TEXT OF EXTRACT:
REFERENCE:
SOURCE INFORMATION:
DATE OF INFO:
FILE CLASSIFICATION OF RECORD COPY (if applicable):
EVALUATION:
WICKS, ALISTAIR
201-501702
SEX M DOB? CIT ?
200-006-485/03
PARI-33.753
13 NOV 72
SUPRENUS NOTED SPELLING, SUBJ NAME IN REPORT GIVEN AS WEEKS FRENCH PHONETIC RENDERING OF WICKS

Indicate The Subject, Project Or 201 File No. In Which This Form Is To Be Filed.
SUBJECT OF 201 (Last, First, Middle)
FORM 867 EDITION
R 7301180251
201-801702
SECRET

DOC SUBJECT:
SOURCE CRYPTONYM:
SECRET
EXTRACT AND CROSS REFERENCE (Filled In):
DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION:
DATE OF INFO:
FILE CLASSIFICATION OF RECORD COPY:
SOURCE INFORMATION:
DATE OF INFO:
TEXT OF EXTRACT (Also cite doc. distribution, Dissem. No., etc. If applicable):
HEEKS, ALISTAR
201-801702
SEX M 008 ? CIT RHODESIA ?
OCC MERCENARY
EVALUATION:
200-011-010/05
DBD-19954
30 JUL 71
FBI
LOCATED ON IBIZA ISLAND IN THE BELEARIC ISLANDS ASSOCIATED W/COL. PETERS AND MIKE HOARE

Indicate The Subject, Project Or 201 File No. In Which This Form Is To Be Filed.
SUBJECT OF 201 (Last, First, Middle)
FORM 867 EDITION
R-7109230296
201-801702
SECRET

(James)
WICKS, Alastair Major/
DOB: 17 November 1917
POB: England
Citizenship: Rhodesian
1-801702
Jul 66 Address: 38 Montague Square London W1
Mar 67 Address: 199 Bickenhall Mansions London W1 (listed under Janis Morris)
Former RAS (Rhodesian Air Services) official
Recruiter of South Rhodesian mercenaries for Tshombe forces -1964
2nd in Command to Mike HOARE in 5 CDO
Left Leopoldville Dec 1965 at termination of mercenary contract for Johannesburg.
One of mercenaries involved in July '66 plot to overthrow MOBUTU (although still in the pay of MOBUTU)
Also, tried to involve Michael HOARE in the plot. He offered HOARE 20,000 L for 6 month contract and rank of full Colonel.
Recruiting Officer in South Africa for Tshombe's forces..166
Unwitting SMOTH contact - 1966
Went to London in October 1966
Unscrupulous and undependable
201-801702

14-00000
PRET 2818
WICKS, Alastair
(IN 31010)
30 Sep 1963
Early Aug Subject came from Salisbury with sps for PUREN from Pierre LAUREYS and Jack Walloch (of Rhodesian Air Services).. LAUREYS was arranging for Malloch to fly out as and ammo to Royalists in Yemen. Malloch was to get contract to fly arms from Europe to Yemen also. PUREN was to proceed w/plane via Salisbury to Yemen as official observer for South African Defense HQS.
AHS 1016
CS DB 312/641-64
18 Sep 1964
Alastair WICKS, former RAS official, returned to Salisbury to begin the recruitment of Southern Rhodesians for service as mercenaries with TSCHOMBE forces in the Congo.
In newspaper ad calling for recruits, interested parties were requested to call Salisbury 55715, which is the number listed for WICKS in S. Rhodesian telephone directory.
KINSHASA 0864
(IN 17389)
9 Mar 1967
AZPA 2201
HOARE stated he going London about 12 March to check on Yemen deal. HOARE had previously received letter from Alastair WICKS in London offering him job with good pay and conditions. He believes this job concerns Yemen.
Attached a letter from WICKS to HOARE, indicating WICKS 16 Mar 67 unable to develop proposition further. HOARE estimates that the WICKS proposition relates to recruitment of mercenaries for service in Yemen. His only basis for this is develop.. ment reported in AZPA 2200.
201-801702

DISPATCH
Chief, Africa Division
CLASSIFICATION S-E-C-R-E-T
PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO BOXING REQUIRED
Chief of Station, PRETORIA
OPERATIONAL/SECAROB
SUBJECT: Letter re Marcenary Affairs
ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES
REFERENCE: AZPT March 1970
Forwarded herewith is the substance of the latest letter received SECAROB/1 from subject of 201801702 re mercenary affairs and During ref trip, PHILBROOK will discuss this letter with SECAROB/1 for further clarification and forward the results to Headquarters.
Attachment: h/w letter
Distribution: Orig. & 2 - C/AF w/att
CROSS REFERENCE TO 201-346655
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER AZPA 3050
CLASSIFICATION S-E-C-R-E-T
Kenneth H. PHILBROOK 5 March 1970

14-00000
HHWANT TO AZPA March 70
We are still held up in one business and have had to call in my own supplies to give an estimate as the previous one, who was virtually unknown to me, did not seem to understand the importance of security in the industrial field today. This in fact should suit us better as I am sure I can do a better deal for us with our own man.
I have had to put off my departure for one week as a result of this as it was important to keep my fingers on the pulse at this moment. I have a meeting with the partners tomorrow when I hope to get things moving and a firm proposal sent to bankers.
I mentioned to the partners that you had some novel ideas to solve the delivery problem and in view of the possible extra cost, they have asked me to get an outline from you as to what your ideas are, both from the point of view of additional expense which, if adopted, would need to be included in the budget and also to give some added encouragement since this particular problem comes up again and again and so far I have refused to be drawn on the subject though you know my first ideas. I think a letter to the Club Nautico will reach me safely though it would obviously be inadvisable to mention the Spice Islands.
I hear there is much afoot in your part of the world and both Brazzaville and the Sudan have been mentioned also another operation. I hope you will not return to that sort of thing at least until we have fully explored the possibilities of the new company.
(dated 25 February 1970).
CS COPY FILED 201-346655
201-801702

14-00000
W
NANCY BLAKE
AF/AAN
6963
February 1968
ABLE SECRETARIA
SECRET
END
NO INDEX
DUFO
COFT
FILE
ROUTING AND/OR DEALS -
SEARCH
PILA
20180176
PARCO FILE NO. 21--051875
REFERENCE
PS
RELAN
ABSTRACT
LAGOS
INFO: LONDON
KRHOLLY
REFS: LAGOS 9510 (IN 38143)
LONDON 3161 (IN 39172)
FOLLOWING HQS TRACES ON ALASTAIR WICKES PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH JAMES ALASTAER EDMOND WICKS. WAS MERCENARY IN KATANGA GENDERME, 1961. IN JULY 1964 RETURNED TO CONGO AS SECOND IN COMMAND TO MICHAEL HOARE'S WHITE MERCENARY GROUP. WAS LOCAL MERCENARY RECRUITED FOR TSHOMBE IN SALISBURY. MAJOR IN HEADQUARTERS DETACHMENT OF 5TH COMMANDO IN CONGO FEBRUARY 1965. RESIGNED FROM 5TH COMMANDO IN DECEMBER 1965, WENT TO JOHANNESBURG ACTING AS MERCENARY RECRUITING OFFICER IN SOUTH AFRICA. WAS ONE OF THE MERCENARIES INVOLVED IN JULY 1966. PLOT TO OVERTHROW MOBUTU BY FORMER CONGOLESE PRIME MINISTER MOISE TSHOMBE INVOLVING THE 5TH COMMANDO MERCENARIES. IN JULY 1967 WICKES REPRESENTED JACK MALLOCH'S AIR TRANS AFRICA IN LONDON. FUNCTION IN LONDON DESCRIBED AS LIAISON WITH AUTAIR OF LONDON AND TO ARRANGE MERCENARY FLIGHT TO CONGO. HOWEVER, THESE OPS HAVE VIRTUALLY CEASED. AUGUST 1967 WICKES INVOLVED IN MERCENARY PLANS TO OVERTHROW CONGOLESE GOVERNMENT. WAS IN LISBON,
MICROFILMED FEB 27 1968

COORDINATING OFFICERS
RELEASING OFFICER.
DOC. MICRO. SER.
SECRET
B-201-051895

PAGE TWO
reference
NEGOTIATING WITH PORTUGUESE ABOUT SENDING ASSISTANCE TO DISSIDENT MERCENARY MAJOR JEAN SCHRAMME.
MAVICAR JOHN MALLOCH PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH JACK MALLOCH, FORMER PILOT IN KATANGA AIR FORCE. IS NOW HEAD OF AIR TRANS AFRICA IN RHODESIA. COMPANY HAS BEEN IN FINANCIAL TROUBLE SINCE 1966. IN ORDER TO KEEP IN BUSINESS, IT APPEARS MALLOCH HAS BEEN OBLIGED TO ACCEPT CONTRACTS WHICH ARE OBVIOUSLY ILLEGAL. IN AUGUST 1967 HE OPERATED TWO CONSTELLATIONS AND A DC-4, LAST MENTIONED USED ON FREIGHT SERVICES FROM LUANDA, BIAFRA ANGOLA, AND LISBON, AND ON OPERATIONS FROM SAO TOME TO IN LATE AUGUST, MALLOCH FLEW 39 BELGIAN AND FRENCH MERCENARIES INTO PUNIA VIA LUANDA IN A DC-6. HAD AT HIS DISPOSAL FOR THE AIRLIFT ONE DC-7, TWO DC-4'S, AND ONE DC-3. WAS WORKING WITH ALASTAIR WICKES IN THE MERCENARY PLANS TO OVERTHROW THE CONGOLESE GOVERNMENT. JOHN PETERS ATTEMPTED TO TIE HIS EFFORT WITH THAT OF WICKES AND MALLOCH, AND THEY TENTATIVELY AGREED TO A PLAN TO FLY REINFORCEMENTS TO SCHRAMME TO SERCRAF PLANTATION AT UVIRA. NO INFORMATION ON EITHER WICKES OR MALLOCH IN FILE AFTER AUGUST 1967, ALTHOUGH WELL KNOWN THEY CONTINUE ASSOCIATION WITH BIAFRAN AIRLIFT.
RELEASING OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET

PAGE THREE
CITE DIRECTOR. 74281
NO HEADQUARTERS TRACES ON ANY OTHER INDIVIDUALS CITED REF ABOVE CAN BE PASSED KRHOLLY/4.
FOR LONDON: HEADQUARTERS HAS NO INFORMATION WALLERSTEINER; PLEASE FORWARD LAGOS YOUR TRACES.
AF/5
E/BC/UK
COORDINATING
END OF MESSAGE

14-0000
CABLE SECRETARIAT
DISS
SIFIED MESSAGE.
SECRET
TOTAL COPIES
CROUP
NG AND/OR INITIALS
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED.
SSLED
SLOTTED
INDEX
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO
A-REF TO FILE NO.
FILE RID ACT
AF
INFO
R:D COPY
FILE
201-801702
FELLIN BRANCH D
DESTROY
CELOPS, CILICZ, EURY
SECRET 131043Z FEB 68 CITE LAGOS 9590
DIRECTOR INFO LONDON.
KRHOLLY
13 FEB 695013E
REF:
LAGOS 9510 (432143
LONDON 3161 (u 39172
LAGOS 9550 (L 414363
D. DIRECTOR 74-125
AN
ES
AF/4/N
ABS
APPRECIATE REF. HOWEVER, STATION'S ORIGINAL QUERY (REF A) NOT ANSWERED. PLEASE ADVISE.
SECRET
BT.
SECRET
201801702

14-00000
SECRET
DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE
SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT
DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION
RI FILE NO:
PATCHOUCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.
DATE
SOURCE
DATE OF INFO.
EVALUATION
DATE PROCESSCO
10DATED IN
DOCUMENT DISPOSITION
REFERRED TO THIS FILE
SPERTINENT INFORMATION
WICKS, ALISTAIR
201-801702:
SEX MOB
CIF
QUC
007-039-011
LUND-0!001.
20 AUG 67
UEG-00291
PLA
FORMER HEGENARY MAJOR WHO IS STILL IN LISBON, NEGOTIATING WITH PORTUGUESE ABOUT SENDING ASSISTANCE TO DISSIDENT MERCENARY MAJOR, JEAN SCHRAMME.
ACLUPLU RAHSAZP
R 6708293294
FORM 867
FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.
SECRET
FILE IN 201-01702

SECRET
DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE
SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT:
TO THIS FILE
PROCESSED
WICKS, ALISTAIR
SEX M 008 ?
CIT ?
DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION
REFILE NO.
ATCN OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.
DATE
7. SOURCE CO. DATE OF INFO.
10. DIUINATED IN
DCCUMENT DISPOSITION
12. CROSS REFER TO THI
13. TRANSFERRED TO
RIFILE NO.
PERTINENT INFORMATION
007-009-011
BRUS-09865.
13 AUG 67
OBB -07301
OCC 7
P.5-
RE SUMMARY OF TWO PLANS FOR OVERTHROW OF CONGOLESE GOVERNMENT.
DELACL
FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.
FORM 867
SECRET
DATE
R 6708254987
EVALUATION
FILE IN 201-8017

SECRET
DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE
SUBJECT OF COCUMENT
DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION
RI FILE NO.
DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOCS..
7.SOURCE CRYPTODATE OF VALUATION
LESSED
10. DISSEMINATED IN
DOCUMENT DISPOSITION
12. CROSS REFER TO THI
13. TRANSFERRED TO
RIFILE NO.
PERTINENT INFORMATION
MICKS
201-801702
SEX M: 008
CIT ?
OCC ?
201-346685
BRUS-09868
13 AUG 67
P1
RE HERCENARY PLANS TO OVERTHROW CONGOLESE GOVERNMENT
DATE
OELACL
R 6708255679.
FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.
FORM 867.
SECRET
FILE IN 201-801902

14-00000
NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
et TO FILE NO.
RIO RET. TO BRAN
DESTROY
30
ACTION
SIG
AF/345/RE
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
RSON/UNIT NOT
RID COPY
TOTAL COPIES
37
MARY GORMLEY
Thank
REPORT I PROHIBITED
Астіви
ACYANCE COPY
☐ ☐ D ■ TURED.
UN
TIME
FILE EURP J, Claes, FL.FI/INTZ DOP, ADOP, SeDC,
SECRET 2839302 CITE SALISBURY 2573
DIRECTOR INFO BRUSSELS, KINSHASA, PRETORIA, LONDON
DIRECTOR 23009
28 Jul 67 21140
ACCORDING BRICK/1, WHO OBTAINED INFO FROM CAPT. O'DONOVAN, OPS MANAGER OF CENTRAL AFRICAN AIRWAYS, WICKS. WICKS REPRESENTS AIR TRANS AFRICA IN LONDON, WAS THERE ON 12 JULY, AND NO INDICATION HE SUBSEQUENTLY LEFT LONDON. FUNCTION IN LONDON DESCRIBED AS LIAISON WITH AUTAIR OF LONDON AND TO ARRANGE MERCENARY. FLIGHT TO CONGO. HOWEVER, THESE OPERATIONS HAVE "VIRTUALLY CEASED AND AIR TRANS AFRICA NOW APPEARS TO RELY SOLELY ON AIRLIFTING PETROL FROM FRANCISTOWN, BOTSWAN TO LIVINGSTON, ZAMBIA USING COMPANY'S TWO FRANCISTOWN-REGISTERED DC-4'S.
SECRET
SECRET

UNIT
Rideout:cjs
5032
LIT 26 July 1967
DATE:
CABLE
SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
ALISAGE FOR
TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
ROUTING AND INITIALS DATEN EY
28
CONF
CRET
RID COPY
INDEX
DEST
NO INDEX
vt
joule and time fried
RETURN
SEANCH
☐ FOR RID
FILE IN CS FILE NO.
SHAN, EURS, DDP pool
CL, Cilops, Fl
26 22 77
(reference number)
CITE DIRECTOR 23:009
SALISBURY. INFO BRUSSELS KINSHASA PRETORIA LONDON
REF: PRETORIA 5:08 5:18 (+0 16565)
S
BRUSSELS 9749 (NOT WENT SALISBURY) REPORTS JOHN R. LATZ CAME BRUSSELS NINE MONTHS AGO AND CURRENTLY EMPLOYED AS SALES INSPECTOR BY ETS FOURCROY SA, 119 RUE STEYLS, BRUSSELS, A WHOLESALE LIQUOR DISTRIBUTOR.
2. WIGEAR LAST SAW LATZ CIRCA 10 JUNE. SAYS LATZ LEFT KINSHASA CA AUGUST 66 (LNGOLD TRAFFIC AT TIME CONFIRMS THIS) PASSED THROUGH BRUSSELS ON WAY VISIT FAMILY LONDON; THEN VISITED BROTHER COTE D'AZUR FRANCE. LATZ SETTLED BRUSSELS FALL 66 WITH FOURCROY AND HAS NOT TRAVELED AFRICA SINCE.
3. WIGEAR NOTED LATZ MAINTAINS CONTACT WITH ALASTAIR WICKES, 'WHO WIGEAR BELIEVES STILL EMPLOYED BY RHODESIAN AIRLINES AND TRAVELS SALISBURY-LONDON. DOES SALISBURY HAVE ANY INFO WICKES ACTIVITIES?
END OF MESSAGE.
AF/COPS
AF/2
E/BNL/Blow.
E/BC/UK
AF/
RELEASING OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET

10-00000
☐
40/23
HF7
ASSIFIED MESSAGE
SEGRET
☑ RID COPY
ADVANCE COPT
☑..
FILE, VR EURY, EDT. H/1/20
EG FI FILINT2, ca colad
RET 081812 Z CITE KINSHASA 0864
RECTOR INFO PRETORIA, LONDON
917389
ON 3 MARCH 1967 SECAROB/1 HAD MEETING WITH HASLANGER AND REPORTED FOLLOWING ABOUT HIS MEETING WITH WISTATIC/1.
SECAROB/1 TRIED UNSUCCESSFULLY TO GET VISTATIC/1 To CUS ON WHAT GORC WAS GOING TO GIVE HIM FOR PHASING OUT THE COMMAND FOR RECRUITING NEW MEN IN ENGLAND. BASED ON
'
VISTATIC/I'S ATTITUDE THAT SECAROB/I WAS SOMETHING OF A CAD FOR BRINGING UP MONEY MATTERS, SECAROB/I TOLD VISTATIC/1 HE HAD NO INTENTION OF PHASING OUT 5 COMMANDO UNLESS THIS FOL- LOWED UP WITH RECRUITMENT OF 400 MEN FROM ENGLAND WITH EVENTUAL EXPANSION THIS FORCE TO 800 MEN, MOST OF WHOM WOULD ARTISANS AND PROFESSIONAL MEN; AND FINALLY SECARCB/1 TO BE ALLOWED TO DEVELOP TOURISM INTHE EASTERN CONGO. AS A RESULT F. THIS CONVERSATION SECAROB/I STATED THAT HE NOW HAS RESERVATIONS ABOUT BEING AX MAN FOR THE 5 COMMANDO BECAUSE HE HASE NO ASSURANCE THAT THE GORC WILL PERMIT HIM TO CARRY OUT THE OTHER ASPECTS OF THIS PROGRAM.

14-000001
NOMASA 8864 SECRET SEGRET
VISTATIC/I THA: ROBUTU
SECAROB/I'S SUGGESTION
CUT IN UNHARP ON THE PHASE-OUT OF THE 5 COMMANDO DUE TO THE WITH USM POSITION IN ALBERTVILLE, VISTATIC/I REPLIED ARE YOU? WE DON'T
NINTHEM
DELPERDANGE.)
FEST
(ASSUME VISTATIC'S VER ERS TO HIMSELF AND
SECAROB/1 ADVISED MISTATIC/1 THAT PETERS COULD BE DIFFICULT MAN TO HANDLE IF DISBANDMENT OF 5 COMMANDO NOT PROPERLY HANDLED. VISTATIC/I SAID HE SAV NO DIFFI- CULTIES HERE. (SECAROB/1 LATER STATED HE DID NOT FEAR PETERS BECAUSE THE LATTER STILL HAD A SWSGEANT'S ATTITUDE TOWARDS HIS CONFANDING OFFICER, SECAROB/1. HASLANGER CAUTIONED SECAROB/1 AGAINST TAKING PETERS TOO LIGHTLY.)
D. WISTATIC/1 COMPLAINED TO SECAROB/1 ABOUT SECAROB/1 NOT HAVING GIVEN HIM A LETTER OF RECOMMENDATION BACK IN SEPTEMBER 1966. VISTATIC/I SAID HE HAD INTENDED. USE LETTER ALONG WITH OTHERS TO PREVENT HIS REMOVAL AND THAT OF GENERAL DELPERDANGE FROM THE CONGO BY THE BELGIAN ARMY.
SECAROB/1 CONCLUDED HIS DISCUSSION OF WISTATIC/1 WITH THE COMMENT THAT WISTATIC/1 KNOWS THE CONGO AS FEW MEN DO AND THAT HE IS A SENSITIVE HAN WITHOUT COURAGE.
F
SECRET

PAGE 3 KINSHASA 0864 SECRET
2. CONCERNING THE OAU MEETING IN SEPTEMBER, SECAROB/1 EMPHASIZED THAT MOBUTU TOLD HIM THAT IT HIS INTENTION TO GET PERMANENT HEADQUARTERS OF OAU TRANSFERRED TO THE CONGO. FURTHER THE GDRC WISHES TO BE A STRONG MILITARY OVER IN CENTRAL AFRICA. WITH THIS COMBINATION HOBUTU HOPES THAT THE GDBC WILL BE THE LEADING POVER IN CENTRAL AFRICA AND POSSIBLY IN ALL OF AFRICA.
WHILE CONFIRHING HIS WILLINGNESS TO DISBAND THE 5 COMMANDO IF LNHARP WANTS HIM TO DO 80, SECAROB/1 EMOTIONALLY TOLD HASLANGER THAT HE HAD GREAT RESPECT FOR LNHARP AND WOTACT; HE WAS OUR MAN AND WOULD BE EVER LOYAL TO ENHARP WHICH HE BELIEVES MUST EXERCISE HORE INFLUENA IN AFRICA; LNHARP HAS ALWAYS BEEN FAIR TO HIM; AND THAT WITHOUT WOFACT THE 5 COMMANDO COULD NEVER HAVE DONE ITS JOB. PRIOR TO LEAVING HASLANGER'S HOME SECAROB/1 LEARNED THAT HASLANGER MIGHT BE LEAVING THE CONGO AROUND AUGUST 1967.
SECAROB/1 STATED THAT IF GUTHMAN AND HASLANGER WERE TO LEAVE THE CONGO THE WOULD BE RELUCTANT TAKE ON HIS NEW JOB SINCE PERSONAL RELATIONSHIPS MEAN A GREAT DEAL TO HIM AND WERE IMPORTANT INPLEMENTING HIS NEW PROGRAM.
SECRET

400000
PAGE 4 KINSHASA 9864 SECRET SMET
DECARORAL STATED THAT HE GOING LONDON ABOUT 12 MARCH TO CHECK ON THE YEMEN DEAL. HE SUGGESTED LNHARP MIGHT WANT HIM TO GO TO YEHEN AND THAT HE WOULD DO SO IF LNHARP DESIRED IT. HE NOT ENCOURAGED BUT TOLD TO REPORT FULL INFO THIS SUBJECT. (SECAROB/I HAD PREVIOUSLY REPORTED THAT HE HAD RECEIVED A LETTER FROM ALASTAIRE WICKES IN LONDON. LETTER STATED THAT JOB AVAILABLE WITH GOOD PAY AND CONDI- TIONS. SECAROB/1 BELIEVES JOB CONCERNS YEKEN. HE KNOWS THAT (FNU) STERLING, OF LONG RANGE DESERT GROUP FAME, HAS LARGE GROUP CF MERCENARISG IN YEMEN.)
3. INSTRUCTED SLCAROB/1 TO CHECK WITH PRETORIA ON HIS RETURN SOUTH AFRICA 4 MARCH.
SECRET
BT

4-00000
RECTOR
CLASSIFICATIONS
SECRET
LONDON PRETORIA KINSHASA
WIQUIT
RD COPY
AND THE FILED
20 2320 Z
CITE DIRECTOR
61200
REFERENCE.
KINSHASA 9412 (DN 56842)
B. SALISBURY Z305 (DV 59541)
1. HQS NOTES THAT NAME ALASTAIR WICKS HAS NOT APPEARED IN RECENT SECAROB/1 REPORTING OF WIQUITI PLOTTING. DURING SUMMER PLOTTING WICKS ALLEGEDLY ONE OF PRINCIPALS INVOLVED. REFERENCE B, HOWEVER, SUGGESTS THAT WICKS CONTINUES BE INVOLVED IN WIQUIT PLOTTING, WOULD APPRECIATE PRETORIA STATION DEBRIEF SECAROB/: AT NEXT REGULAR MEETING ON WICKS PRESENT WHEREABOUTS AND ACTIVITIES.
2. HQS HAS ALSO NOTED THE ABSENCE ANY SMOTH REPORTING TO WOFACT ON THE MACHINATIONS OF WIQUIT/1 GROUP. BELIEVE IT WOULD BE APPROPRIATE FOR LONDON STATION TAKE THIS UP WITH SMOTH AND SOLICIT THEIR ASSISTANCE IN MONITORING ACTIVITIES AND CONTACTS OF PETERS, WICKS, AND POSSIBLY JOHN TERRENCE PEET, SUBJECT continued..
RELEASING
SECRET
REPRODUCTION AT OTHER MAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
OFFICE

DIRECTOR
SECRET
PAGE TWO
FILZ
RID COPY
CITE DIRECTOR.
6/2010
DIRECTOR 36997 AND 38456.
WOULD APPRECIATE KINSHASA STATION POUCH DETAILED DEBRIEFING REPORT PEET TRIP AND HIS CONTACTS WITH WIQUIT/1 GROUP. WOULD ALSO APPRECIATE PRETORIA STATION POUCH DETAILED REPORT OF SECAROB/1 RECENT TRIP.
END OF MESSAGE
20/AF.
Dom 4. Roberty
JC/EUR/LOFS
CAF/52
AF/2
I/BC/UK
JEC/UK
the be
AF/COPS.
LEADING OFFIC
COORDINATING OFFICERE
SECRET
GAOUD
M
az RoboCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
AUTHENTICATION
OFFICIA

14-00000
5. ANALYST
SECRET
UMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFER.
SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT
DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION-
RI FILE NO.
ce souact DOC. SOLO.
DATE
7.90uart CPTON
DATE PROCESSED
:DISSEMINATED IN
DOCUMENT DISPOSITION
CROSS REFERRED TO THE FILE
13. TRANSCARED TO
+. FILE NO.
PERTINENT INFORMATICS
WICKS, ALISTAIR
201-801702
SEX M 0087
DATE OF SINFO
EVALUATION
201-346685
DELA-4555
18 NOV 60
.PL.
CIT ?
OCC ?
SECARUB/L SAW SUBJ SEVERAL TIMES DURING HIS LONDON VISIT NOW OFF PAYROLL AND LIVING AT 199 BICKENHALL ST. LONDON, W. I TEL HUN 1729. SECAROB/1 DOES NOT HAVE HIGH REGARD FOR SHIBJ MILITARY CAPABILITY.
ACLAZP
FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.
FORM 837
SECRET
DATE
R 6707191852
FILE IN 201. 01702)

INFO
Chief of Station, Kinshase
Chief of Station, Pretoria
Chief Africa Division
Handwriting Analysis
ACTION REQUIRED PEFERENCES
MAPED FOR DENG
NORING REQU
ORLY QUALIFIED CER
CAN AVOLE PROCURE
BCROL
Alastair #ICKS
Reference: AZPA - 2084, 9 August 1966
Action Required: For Your Information.
The letter forwarded via reference was submitted to WOACRE for handwriting analysis. The results are forwarded herewith for your information.
Jerry O. MEDLISH
Attachment:
As stated above
Distribution:
Orig. & 2 - COS, Kinshasa (w/att.)
1 - COS, Pretoria (w/att.)
CROSS REFERENCE TO ACLE 1733 21 October 1966
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
CLASSIFICATION SECRET
Edhamale
test
icati
201-85170:2
HOS FILE NISMABER
201-801702
CANCEL
AF/5
CCT STM
CHATE
ORIGINATING
lyricks cjs.
F
COORDINATING
OFFICERS NAME
Kn de Marin
John
2 AF/5
1 AF/2
TSD/BAB
26 Oct
1 TSD/BAB
$25
AF/2
00: Sa
ABSTRACT
INDEX
A
CATE
AF/5
13. Cb
153 PREVIOUS EDITION
3.)
RELEASING
EXT.
5032
DISPATCH
AF 3 C

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO. 2017 CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TO FILE NO.
RET
LE RID
DESTROY
SIG.
TO BRANCH
SECRET
PERSON
NOTIFIED
AF/5
0921
ACTION
TOTAL COP It's
ADVANCE COPY
RID COPY
☐,
ง
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITE
* FILE VR EUR 8, los aficz, abs, IT, KONTZ, 2006
TIME.
SECRET 1908372 CITE PRETORIA 5118
KINSHASA INFO DIRECTOR
SECAROB
REF: PRETORIA 5111 (~17 (94)
PS
ABSTRACT
AF/S
18 Oct 20824
RE REF. WICKS TOLD SECAROB/1 HE RETURNING LONDON IN THREE DAYS. ALSO REPEATED RUMOR HEARD IN SALISBURY THAT UNIDENTIFIED AMERICANS RECRUITING MERCENARIES IN SALISBURY FOR PURPOSES OF COUP TO REPLACE MOBUTU WITH BOBOZO.
SECRET
SECRET
201-89002
197 Oct 66
•
···
•

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, AF/5
ATTENTION Earl rick
SUBJECT Handwriting Analysis
REFERENCE Alastair Wicks AF/5 memo dated 29 Aug. 1966
Attached herewith is the handwriting assessment report on subject as requested by reference. The report was prepared by Mrs. Thea Hall of this office. Any comments or criticism would be appreciated.
2. The data supplied is insufficient for further psychological assessment. If contact reports and personal observations of subject's manner and behavior become available, we could produce a more precise assessment oriented to subject's performance in intelligence activities.
William C. GOSWOOD (P) Chief, TSD/BAB
Attachments: Report & h.w. sample

4-00000
SECFE
Alastair Wicks AF
Handriting Assessment Report
The writer seems to be a very clever individual of a high intellectual level who handles his affairs in a independent manner. Endowed with a good intelligence, he is well educated and cultured. He has not only absorbed but, also, assimilated the material he has read and studied and utilizes it in a pur- poseful fashion. His thinking is clear, logical and versatile. His intellectual faculties are well trained and differentiated, and, to a large extent, they support his practical talents and interests constructively. He discards superfluous matters, and, whenever possible, he deals with only the vital points in a problem or a situation s He possesses impressive mental-agility with well developed analyzing and synthesizing faculties. He is quite intuitive and senses instinctively the implications of happenings around him.
He is an alert and astute observer of small details which he relates correctly to their larger aspects. Being quite re- [sourceful, he combines imagination with sober matter-of-factness. He follows prescribed rules and regulations when absolutely necessary and, whenever possible, exercises his mental indepen- dence. He forms his own opinion and judgment and keeps his own counsel in making decisions. He may accept somebody else's suggestions that he considers suitable for his purposes but he is not actually influenced by others. At times, he may deliber- ately make somebody feel as if he is seeking his advice and following it, but, in reality, he does what he considers best.
He is very critical and evaluates by high standards, He can be very outspoken in his criticism or he can cautiously withhold it depending on his appraisal of the circumstances. His interests cover small items of information to large size projects and operations. While he notices everything that is going on, he can concentrate on his work. When required, he can switch quickly from one task to another. His memory functions well and he can reproduce facts easily.

SEGE
The writer has administrative ability on a supervisory level. Within a military setup, he could take orders as well as issue them, although he prefers the latter. He can be systematic and methodical in his approach. He can work out a blueprint of an intricate undertaking and supervise its proper execution. He will quickly and easily adapt to fluctuations in a situation and change his tactics accordingly.
He is skillful in manipulating numbers, and he can think in terms and transactions. Apparently, he is quite interested in money and he seems to know how to get the best possible advantage out of a financial transaction.
He possess an make his points palatable and can be quite convincing in his arguments. Also, he can formulate his ideas and purposes in different ways, depending on with whom he is dealing. He should have talent for learning foreign languages.
He is a gifted person who will exploit his talents in line with the demands that are put before him. He also seems to have physical training and skills. He has a natural feeling for form, sound and color. He probably has developed artistic appreciation and may have an artistic hobby, possibly music.
Emotionally, the writer is complex but fairly well balanced. Innately impressionable and sensitive, he has hardened himself in the course of his life in order to be less vulnerable. He has his feelings and impulses under fairly good control and avoids being carried away by them. In his private life, though, he may tend to be somewhat excitable and irritable. He is self-centered and most interested in his personal advantage. This is a trait that he tries to cover up by being smooth and pleasing in his dealings with people. He possesses natural psychological under- standing and can be very diplomatic. He manages to appear out- going and social while basically he is quite reserved and detached. He seems to avoid emotional involve