```markdown
saga

--- Page 1 ---

14-10225-10030
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECURITY INFORMATION

MEMORANDUM FOR: DEPUTY DIRECTOR (PLANS)
SUBJECT: RFE in Turkey
7 January 1953

ACTION NECESSARY: Will you please decide or cause to be decided the
following question: Should the National Committee for a Free Europe
in its approach to Turkish authorities exploring the possibility of
creating an RFE station in Turkey contact Turkish authorities as a
non-governmental private Committee or as a CIA-financed institution?

Background

1. The State Department has asked that RFE not approach Turkish
authorities until VOA's attempt to get into Turkey has been accepted
or refused by the Turks. The Department has now given the Voice of
America until 15 January to conclude its negotiations with the Turkish
Government. These negotiations appear to be leading nowhere and, on
the assumption that VOA will not gain entrance to Turkey, the Depart-
ment has authorized RFE to begin negotiations on the above date.

2. Bob Lang, Bill Durkee and Mr. Wadsworth, former Ambassador
to Turkey, as well as the NE Division have all been in on discussions
as to how NCFE should approach the Turks. Mr. Wadsworth counsels
that all cards be laid on the table, and he bases his reasoning on
his belief that the Turks will know about it anyhow and that RFE is
likely to get further if it comes clean. The NE Division on the
other hand hopes that the approach can be that of a private committee
and that no mention need be made of CIA's interest.

3. Your advice on the above question will not constitute approval
of the building of a Turkish station or of operations from Turkey. By
PRC decision at the last hearing on NCFE's budget these questions in
Turkey must be brought back here for approval if the attitude of the
Turks is favorable.

THOMAS W. BRADEN
Chief
International Organizations Division

SECURITY INFORMATION

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000
MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS
FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: HR FUOMEN/RSHOPS CHILE
INCLUSIVE DATES: SEPT. 1973- MAY 1974
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:
ROOM:
DELETIONS, IF ANY:

RECEIVED RETURNED REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
DATE DATE

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE
FUOMEN

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000
C/LM/AN/C
SUBJECT AND PROJECT PRE REQUENT
AND FIELD NOTIFICATION OF ACTION
C/IP/IMS
(Station/Case)
Santiago, Chile
COMPLETE ITEMS 1 THROUGH 12.
FROM (Division)
C/LA
INFORMATION FOR REQUESTERS
ITEM 3-ALL FILE TITLES MUST BE STIPPLED SINCE THEM WILL
APPEAR ON THE FIELD COPIES AND ON MACHINE LISTS.
ITEM 6-ALL REMARKS MUST BE STERILE.
ITEM 7 AND 8-USE FIRST THREE DEMERS OF DISPATCH SYM.
BOLD FOR FREED STATIONS AND ENTERS TE
MUNIS ACCORDING TO ESTABLISHED NUMERIC CODES.
TYPE OF FILE
SUBJECT
ITEM 10-ENTER OLD TITLE WHEN AMENDING A TITLE CATE
ANY FILES, SUCH AS 2010R PROTECT FILES THAT E
LATED TO THE FILE COVERED BY HAS PROBESTEM TO
ALSO BE USED TO GREASONS FOR PL ACTION BEG
QUESTED, TO IDENTIFY THE TYPE OF MATER TO BE A
IN A FILE OR TO MAKE OTHER EXPLANATORY REMARKS.
ITEM 11 A RECORDS OFFICER MUST SIGNALL FETI
QUESTS. CONSULT YOUR IMO ON ANY PROBLEMS A
INFORMATION CONCERNING FILE
COUNTRY NUMBER
PROJECT
015
3. FILE TITLE (SPECIFIC SUBJECT(PROJECTS LIMITED TO 155ACES)
CODE (FILE) NUMBER
CATEGORY NUMBER
124
052
FUOMEN
4
OPER FILE
FILE TYPE
ACTION REQUIRED
ANALYSIS ACTION
5.
DISPOSITION
CLOSE FILE INDICATE DEPOSITION
REOPEN
RETAIN
6. REMARKS FOR FIELD DISTRIBUTION
7. INTERESTED STATIONS (PROJECTS ONLY)
HOLD IN
HCS
RESTRICTED
DESTRUCTION RECOMMEN
THRU (DATED
Q. INTERESTED HEADQUARTERS DESK (LIST ACTION DES FIN)
015
FILES ACTION
UNRESTRICTED
CS FILES
X
10. COMMENTS INCLUDE SPECIAL HEADQUARTERS ROUTING INSTRUCTIONS)
19.
ENDORSEMENT
SIGNATURE OF BRANCH/DESK R. O.
AFFECTIVE DATE
PREPARE FOLDER AND
SEND TO REQUESTER
CHARGE PERMANENTLY
OFFICER & DESK
12.
COORDINATION
SIGNATURE OF BRANCH/DESK R. O.
WHEN APPLICABLE)
13.
RID APPROVAL
REQUEST APPROVED BY
FOLM
12-05
OBSOURI PREVIOUS
812
rections
MTS 12-65
SECRET
CODE FILE NUMBER
38
15-124-052

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000
CABLE SEC DISSEM
TOTAL COPIES
RUN BY
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED.
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED.
ACTION UNIT
RF
FILE
VR
ACTION
STAFF
F
T 375103
ELA916
PAGE 01-21
TOR 281628Z AUG 74
IN 345816
HAMB 625462
SECRET 261611 AUG 74 STAFF
CITE HAMBURG 25462
TO: DIRECTOR INFO BONN, BONN BASE.
MHCRUNCH FUOMEN REDLEG
REF: EGGA-6103, 12 AUG 74
1. ARTICLE BY PROF. JAMES THE BERGE, PUBLISHED IN
SOVIET ANALYST, VOL. 3, NO. 17, 15 AUG, ENTITLED: "KREMLIN'S
HAND IN ALLENDE'S CHILE" IS IDEAL FOR PURPOSES OUTLINED IN REF.
WE ATTEMPTING TO PLACE. WILL ADVISE. SUGGEST HO INCLUDE ARTICLE
IN PRESS COMMENTS.
2. FILE DEFER. E2 IMPDET.

RECORD COPY

15-124-52

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000

TRANSMITTAL

Chief, EUR Division
DESCRIPTION
Newspaper article
Hald for und
SECRET
MANIFEST
FROM
COS,
Helsinki
REMARKS
No. 669923
FUOMEN/PSYCH Ref: HELSINKI
22455
FORM 1236a, me 1230 and 1330 (2 042, which may be w
5-69
1
SECRET
E2 IMPDET

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000
KULTUR 3
Allendes misstag
Den svenska debatten är ensidig. Man har på ett
lysande sätt dokumenterat juntans grymheter men
man drar ingen lärdom av utvecklingen i Allendes
Chile. Det är viktigt att kunna kritisera det som var fel
i utvecklingen, annars kan man inte lära sig någonting.
Om man tystar ner varje form av debatt om det som
var före kuppen, använder man sig av ett
censurtänkande som är på samma linje som juntans.,
säger Andres Küng, journalist och författare som
besökt Chile före, under och efter Allendes tid. Han
har nu också givit ut en debattbok, Att så socialism
och skörda fascism.

Salvador Allende och "folkre-
geringen Unidad Popular (folklig
enhet) emotsågs med stort intresse
även utomlands. Man skulle äntli-
gen få svar på flera grundläggande
frågor. Kan socialismen genomföras
på fredlig väg i Latinamerika? Är
marxismen i praktiken förenlig med
politisk demokrati? Kan en social
revolution genomföras med bevarad
politisk demokrati?

Folkfrontens program hade
fyra naturtillgångar, främst kopparn,
2) ökad takt i jordreformsarbetet, 3)
förstatligande av de största bank-
och industriföretagen och 4) snabb
ekonomisk tillväxt och omfördel-
ning av inkomster och förmögenhe-
ter samt kamp mot inflationen.
Koppar viktig

Kopparn svarar för upp till fyra
femtedelar av landets export och
mellan en femtedel och en tredjedel
av statsintäkterna. Under åren före
första världskriget gick gruvorna
över i nordamerikansk ägo. I slutet
av 1960-talet nationaliserades de till
hälften av den kristdemokratiska
Frei-regimen. Staten övertog 51
procent av aktierna. Men Freis
'chilenisering av kopparn visade
sig slutligen ändå mest lönsam för
de amerikanska företagen. Kopparn
förstatligades genom ett tillägg till
grundlagen 1971. Frågan om ersätt-
ning till de forna amerikanska
ägarna hänsköts till högste statsrevi-
sor men Allende och hans
regering ansåg att de inte hade råd
att betala kontant ersättning i dollar.

Jordbruket svarar för mindre
än en fjärdedel av sysselsättningen,
vilket är mindre än de flesta
latinamerikanska och andra u-län-
der. Flera jordreformulagar antogs
före Allende, en av dem 1967 då man
bestämde att alla jordegendomar
över 80 "hashektar" kunde tvång-
sinlösas, (en hashektar en hektar
förstklassig konstbevattnad jord).

Takten i jordreformarbetet
ökade under Allendes presidenttid.
Under hans första år tvångsinlöstes
nästan lika mycket jord som under
hela den föregående sexåriga presi-
dentperioden. Alla stora jordegen-
domar uppges ha förstatligats
1973.

En följd av jordreformen var att
lantarbetarna organiserades fackligt.
En annan var jordockupationerna.
De ökade nio gånger redan under
Allendes första år jämfört med under
Freis tid. Jordägarna började gå till
motangrepp.

Produktionen sjönk - de
exproprierade gårdarna hade inte
tillräckligt med maskiner, redskap,
kreatur och utsäde. Den sjunkande
tillgången på insatsmedel och den
stigande efterfrågan ledde till för-
sörjningsproblem uch prissteg-
ringar.

I början genomförde Allende
en rad åtgärder för att skapa en
jämnare fördelning av förmögenhe-

Andres Küng, journalist och
författare, säger att Chile-de-
batten är ensidig. "Det är
viktigt att även kunna kritise-
ra det som var fel på Allendes
tid annars kan man inte lära
sig någonting"

svarta börsaffärer och hämstring.
Penningvärdet sjönk med 163
procent.

Under min vistelse i Santiago i
början av 1973 var enbart cigarrett-
köerna i centrum ett par kvarter
långa, berättar Andres Küng.
Förlorade stödet

De ekonomiska problemen
medförde politiska problem. Allen-
de förlorade medelklassens stöd och
arbetareklassens stöd minskade. I
kongressvalen behövde han majoritet
- det var en nödvändig
förutsättning för att han skulle kunna
fortsätta att genomföra sitt program
och stifta sina lagar. Han fick bara
44 procent. Maktkampen kongress
- parlament - president fortsatte.
Ingen ville ge vika för den andre.
Allende drevs till åtgärder som inte
var förenliga med demokratiska
principer och gällande lagar.

Denna utveckling tyder på att
varje försök att mot flertalets vilja
tvinga fram en extrem politik
medför risker för polarisering av
samhället som bara skulle gynna
odemokratiska riktningar. En ag-
gressiv klasspolitik, vare sig den är
reaktionär eller revolutionär, kan
framkalla en utveckling mot en
socialistisk eller fascistisk diktatur,
konstaterar Andres Küng.

Men inga missförhållanden
och misstag under Allendes tid kan
användas som ursäkt för kuppen och
det blodbad som sedan följde. Man
kan ha olika uppfattningar om
Allendes politik, men varje sann
demokrat måste känna avsky för den
nuvarande militärjuntan.
Flitig författare
Andres Küng är född i Gävle

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000

2.
EIA232
WH6 SSS
FACE OF
70910211037 MAY 74
2509492 MAY 74 STAFF
8651441 22455
TO: DIRECTOR INFO STOCKHOLM, SANTIAGO,

EVENT
ALREADY KNOWN TO ADDEES, CALL ATTENTION
PUBLISHED BOOK ON CHILE BY SWEDISH JOURNALIST/
AUTHOR ANDRES KUNG. ENTITLED "TO SOW SOCIALISM
AND REAP FASCISM", WHICH SEEMS UNUSUALLY BALANCED, COMING
FROM YOUNG SWEDE. ACCORDING TO 1 MAY 74 REVIEW IN FINNISH
SWEDISH-LANGUAGE DAILY "HUFVUDSTADSBLADET", KUNG--WHO VISITED
CHILE BEFORE, DURING AND AFTER ALLENDE'S TIME--LABELS THE
SWEDISH DEBATE ON CHILE AS "ONE-SIDED" AND ANALYSES IN DETAIL
ALLENDE'S ECONOMIC POLICIES AND THE INCREASINGLY CRITICAL ECONOMIC
PROBLEMS UNDER ALLENDE'S THREE YEARS, AND THE CONCOMITANT
POLITICAL PROBLEMS THAT LED ALLENDE TO MEASURES WHICH WERE
INCOMPATIBLE WITH DEMOCRATIC PRINCIPLES AND EXISTING LAWS".
KUNG NOTES THAT "AGGRESSIVE CLASS POLITICS, WHETHER REACTIONARY
OR REVOLUTIONARY, CAN BRING ABOUT A MOVE AGAINST A SOCIALIST
OR FASCIST DICTATURE" BUT, HE ADDS, "NO CONDITION OR MISTAKE
DURING ALLENDE'S TIME CAN BE USED AS EXCUSE FOR THE COUP"

CONFIDENTIAL

--- Page 8 ---

14-00000

ADVANCE
PI
EIA230
AGE
STAFF
TORT2211032 MAY 74
HELS 22455.
AND THE BLOODBATH THAT FOLLOWED".
2. KUNG (DOB: 1945, GAVLE, SWEDEN) IS FORMER (1969-72)
EDITOR FOR SWEDISH RADIO'S OBS", NOW LIVES IN MALMO, HAS
PREVIOUSLY WRITTEN ON, INTER ALIA, LATIN AMERICA AND BALTIC
STATES.
3. FILE DEFER. E2 IMPDET.

CONFIDENTIAL

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000
CABLE SEC DISSEM BY
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED.
ACTION UNIT
FILE
VR
RF
N
F
ACTION
EIA126
T 172681
TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
RUN BY
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
STAFF
PAGE 01-01
IN 274496
TOR:271631Z JUN 74
SAGO 29396
TO: DIRECTOR INFO PARIS,
RYBAT HYSAGE
REFSI
A. PARIS 48989 (J273492)
B. DIRECTOR 559514
1. STATION CONCURS WITH PARIS ASSESSMENT. IF ALLENDE ACTUALLY
DID WANT TO SURRENDER, JUNTA COULD ONLY SUFFER FROM PUBLICIZING
FACT.
2. FILE: 56-6-42/3, 201-927906. E2 IMPDET

--- Page 10 ---

14-00000
CABLE SEC DISSEM BY
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT
FILE
VR
RF
N
F
ACTION
T 169854
EIA366
PAGE 01
TOR:062019Z JUN 74
IN 273492
PARI 48989
SECRET 261824Z JUN 74 STAFF
CITE PARIS 46989
TO: DIRECTOR INFO SANTIAGO.
RYBAT HYSAGE
REF: DIRECTOR 559514
1. DEFER SANTIAGO RE PARA 5 BUT WE FEEL THERE LITTLE TO BE
GAINED IN PSYCH TERMS FOR EUROPEAN AUDIENCE TO ATTEMPT CLARIFY
WHETHER ALLENDE KILLED WHILE FIGHTING OR ATTEMPTING SURRENDER.
JUNTA'S PRESTIGE SO LOW IN EUROPEAN EYES THAT SUCH HAIR SPLITTING
WOULD NOT MAKE MUCH DIFFERENCE OR COULD ACTUALLY REBOUND
AGAINST JUNTA SHOULD IT EMERGE HE DIED WHILE WANTING SURRENDER.
2. SHOULD IT DEVELOP THAT FANATICS AROUND ALLENDE REFUSED
ALLOW HIM SURRENDER, THEN THIS MIGHT BE ANOTHER STORY BUT THIS
NOT CLEAR FROM REF AND ALSO NOT KNOWN IF GARCES COULD MAKE
SUCH VERSION STICK BECAUSE OF HIS EARLY DEPARTURE FROM NATIONAL
PALACE.
3. FILE: 55-6-42/3, 221-987906. E2, IMPDET

--- Page 11 ---

14-00000

PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING
INFO.
C/WH Division

Chief of Station, Helsinki
FROM
Acting Chief of Station, Santiago
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
MICROFILM
SUBJECT
FUOMEN Psych
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
Ref: HELSINKI 22455
If available, we would appreciate receiving four
copies of Andres Kung's book mentioned in reference. E2 IMPDET.
Distribution:
CROSS REFERENCE TO
2 COS Helsinki
C/WHO
HCSA-28904 3 May 1974
HOS FILE NUMBER 15-124-52
"Defer
Leslie H. BERBERIAN
RECORD COPY
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
DATE
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

--- Page 12 ---

14-00000
NETHERLANDS
CHILEAN REFUGEES IN NETHERLANDS POINTED OUT AS FUGITIVES
Editorial by N. van Nieuwenhuysen; Reformatorisch Dagblad,
Dutch, 19 April 1974, p 5

The Chilean refugees in the Netherlands seem to be
having adjustment problems. These rather prolonged symptoms
seem to be caused among other things by the fact that they
still find it hard to accept that the socialist dream of
their Marxist president is definitely over and that their
country is now being ruled by a small group of reactionaries
who are trying to keep the people under control through
terrorism, repression, and torture. Such problems will take
you quite a ways in the Netherlands and those idealists were
quick to take advantage of it.

Welfare

What is the situation? Most of the approximately
250 refugees with a high school or university education do
not work. About half of them have been housed at the "Huis
ter Schie" in Overschie, where they enjoy the sunshine on
the terrace or play volleyball in the yard. Board and
lodging are free and at the end of the week they pick up
another 25 guilders pocket money. In addition they receive
free language instruction, commuter tickets for the bus, and
compensation for each trip they have to take.

Do you get the idea that they are better off than
many old people in the Netherlands? You are probably right,
because the Chilean exiles do not have to live on welfare;
they are being paid from the frozen funds which had been
allocated for development aid to their fatherland, Chile.
So you can see how well our tax money is being spent.

--- Page 13 ---

14-00000
Considering that this small group of pampered exiles
is preaching revolution even here and with a full stomach,
it may be useful to point out a few facts. These are facts
which are well known in the Ministry in The Hague but for
some reason never made it to the Netherlands press.

Facts

The great majority of the refugees are not even
Chilean nationals. They are natives of Bolivia, Brazil, and
Uruguay. They came to Chile as a result of illegal and
revolutionary activities in which they had been involved in
these South and Middle American countries, the ultimate
consequences of which they did not wish to suffer.

They felt at home in Allende's Chile because Allende
showed sympathy for their situation. His first action as
president, after his inauguration in November 1970, was to
declare amnesty for all those who "were members of terrorist
underground organizations," those who during the last months
of his predecessor's regime had been charged with bank
robbery, the armed robbery of self-service stores, the theft
of weapons from military arsenals, kidnapping, and attempted
murder.

The fact that some of those revolutionaries received
Chilean diplomatic status was due to Allende's policy of
granting residence permits to this type of revolutionaries.

These refugees with a high school or higher level education
seemed to have no adjustment problems in Chile. As a result
they soon found their way to important key positions in the
government.

The fugitives didn't suffer any sleepless nights in
Chile either, because they felt protected by a militant
Marxist army, armed to the teeth. Some 10,000 revolutionaries,
from all points of the compass, were at their disposal.
Definition

In the Berner Tageblatt, a Swiss newspaper which
is known for not exaggerating, Dr. Mario Puelma, from the
University of Freiburg, wrote the following: "The concept
of political refugee is only of limited value when applied
to Chile. Whatever one's attitude toward the military junta

--- Page 14 ---

14-00000
may be, one thing is certain, the Chilean refugees were not
pursued only because of their ideology, their status, or
their origin. This is the traditional, humanitarian defini-
tion for a refugee. For the most part they are people who,
in their own country, could be legally charged with crimes
which are punishable under any judicial system.

These refugees carried out activities in Chile which
were against the constitution. As a matter of fact, they are
specialists in violence. This is why they sought asylum in
the foreign embassies in Santiago and why there are so many
foreigners among them."
8463
CSO 8014/2087-W

--- Page 15 ---

14-00000
Francisco heeft
aangekondigd dat
de negers zullen
en defouilleerd
het spoor te ko
den op zoetgan-
uijf maanden.
ten zonder par-
het trottoir neer
montage is so-
leiding van ver
klaringen.
te zijn beland,
betere verhou-
gesprek tussen.
seu bericht het
AP slechts dat
th partijsfeer",
Brezinjevs ont
der communis-
de kwalificaties
k en vriend-
Roemenië ver-
an mening over
militaire bond-
egermanoeuvres
'n het Russische
isoleren.
Het Ameri-
'n buitenlandse
lag exporiver-
urd krachtens
dochteronder-
grote Ameri-
brieken
auto's
Cuba. Deze
waarschijnlijk
ziking an het
de organisatie
en tegen Cuba
mbargo
V.S.-economie
loopt terug
WASHINGTON - De Amerikaanse
regering heeft donderdag bekend ge
maakt dat de nationale economie veel
krachtiger la teruggelopen, in het eer-
ste kwartaal van dit jaar, dan was
ierwacht. Prijzen stegen bovendien
met meer dan tien procent.
Het bruto nationale
ininderde in het eerste kwartaal met
produkt ve
een jaar-percentage van 5.8 Dit is de
cvrste keer sinds 1970 dat het bruto
nationale produkt is verminderd en
het is de scherpste daling in 15 jaar.
De vermindering van het bruto natio-
Bale produkt met 5.8 procent moet
vergeleken worden met een schatting
yan tussen de 3 en 4 procent, zoals
die door de regering was gedaan. In
het laatsie kwartaal van het vortg
jaar nan het bruto nationale produkt
toe met 1,6 procent.
MINISTERS KRIJGEN HUISARREST
Ethiopische leger uit
scherpe verwijten
ETHIOPISCH LEGER
ADDIS AKIKA - Premier Endal-
kachew Makwazen van Ethiopië heeft
donderdag bekrodgemaakt dat de le-
den van de regering die eind februari
door de sirkrachten
werd af te treden. huisarrest hebben
egen.
Redwongen
Volgens de hooische radio heeft
Makkonen gesegd op een bijeen-
komst in Ads Abeba van rond 2.000
officieren en manschappen. De pre-
mier zou naar de bijeenkomst ont-
boden in der de strijdkrachten die
hem hadden laten weten dat het leger
gedwongen and in te grijpen als
er niet onmisk tegen de minis-
ters werd oppede.
Het leger verwit de ministers dat
rij het land in rea economische chaos
hebben gestart shop onwettige
wijze verrijkt hedden en na hun af-
treden hebben samengezworen om
verdeeldheid te sien
PLANNEN
Makonnen ga de bijeenkomst
een uitvoerie wenzetting van de
hervormingspen Van zin rege-
ring. Hy be stresachten voor
hun vourbe en deed een
beroep op hen een voorbeeld te geven
van de lucht de nodig is voor het
land in de me cagen die nog
zullen komen. De premier zou het
huisarrest van voormalige minis-
ters bekend hebben gemaakt toen
Liberaal
Kennedy aan
het woord
hem de vraag werd gesteld waarom
een arme Ethiopiër die ren brocd
heeft gestolen, onmiddellijk de ge-
vangen ingaat, terwijl de ex-minis-
ters die ernstige misdaden zouden
hebben begaan, niet voor de recht-
bank worden gedaagd en maar on-
gehinderd op straat rondlopen.
Makonnen zei dat er een commissie
Is benoemd die een onderzoek moet
Instellen naar het gedrag van de
voormalige ministers.
POLITIE
In de stad Asmara heeft de politie
bekendgemaakt dat zij geen routine-
werk meer zal verrichten, omdat haar
eis tot ontslag van het landelijae
hoofd van de politie, luitenant-gene-
raal Yilma Shibeshi, niet is ingewil
ligd. Voorts hebben de 1.200 spoor-
wegmannen die woensdag in staking
zijn gegaan, de vrachtauto's tegennge-
houden die goederen van
Asmara
naar de haverstad Massawa zouden
brengen
Arbeidsonrust
in Canada
commerciéle
OTTAWA - De posterijen, het
luchtverkeer en bet
scheepvaartverkeer op de St-Law-
rence rivier in Canada zijn verlamd
door een staking die het land dage
lijks enkele miljoenen dollars kust
De arbeidsrust duurt nu al meer
dan een week en zal volgens de Ca-
nadese parlementaire oppositie de
inflatie, die momenteel jaarlijks 10
procent bedraagt, bevorderen.
Door wie stakingen is de helft
van alle postkantoren in het land
gesloten ten gevolge
Soldars
teitsstang De melden bes
van
VRIJDAG 19 APRIL 1974
Opgemerkt
Chili
Chileense vluchtelingen in
Nederland schijnen aanpassings.
problemen te hebben. Dit nogal
langdurige verschijnsel blijkt on-
dermeer veroorzaakt te worden
doordat zij het nog steeds let
kunnen verkroppen dat de sorialis-
tische droom van de Marxistische
president definitief voorbij en dat
hun land nu beheerst wordt doo
een kleine groep reactionairen die
met terreur, onderdrukking en fol-
teringen probeert het volk onder de
dulm te houden. Met zo'n lange vol-
sin kom je een heel eind in Ne-
derland en dit hadden dexo idealis-
ten al gauw in de gaten.
VERZORGING
Want wat is het geval? Werken
doen de meeste van de ongeveer 250
vluchtelingen van middelbaar en
universitair niveau niet. Ongeveer
de helft van hen is ondergebracht in
het fuis ter Schle" in Overschle,
waar zij op het terras genieten van
de zon of volleybal spelen in de
tuln. Kost en inwoning zijn gratis
en aan het einde van de week van-
gen zij ook nog eens vijfentwintig
gulden zakgeld. Daarbij krligen zij
nog gratis taalcursussen, een rit-P
tenkaart voor de bús en een vergoe-
ding voor elke reis die zij moeten
maken.
de
Door
N. van Nieuwenhuysen
U vindt dat zij het beler hebben
als menig Nederlands bejaarde?
Waarschijnlijk hebt u gelijk, want
Chileense hallingen behoeven
niet van de bijstand te leven: xl
worden namelijk gefinancierd door
de geblokkeerde gelden voor ont-
wikkelingshulp aan hun vaderland
Chill Zo ziet u maar hoe goed on
belastinggeld wordt besteed.
Daar dit la de walten gelegde
groepje ballingen zelfs hier nog met
volle maag de revolutie predikt is
het misschien nuttig enige feiten te
noemen. Feiten die op het ministerie
In Den Haag welbekend zijn, maar
om de een of andere reden nooit de
pers in Nederland halen..
FEITEN
De vluchtelingen hebben voor het
overgrote deel niet reas de Chi-
leense nationalitet. Zij zijn afkom..

--- Page 16 ---

14-00000
BELGRADO)
D. Amerikaanse
senator Edward Kennedy, heelt don
derdage blend op een persconfetently
in de Zidslavische hoofdstad Bel.
gral de vlootoefeningen van
NAVO Veroordeeld die onlangs in het
noorden van de Adriatische
gehouden.
in
-
Deze oefeningen hebben het geschil
tussen Italie en Zuidslavie over de
zogenaamde zone ten zuiden van
Test verscherpt. Kennedy memde
het geen afdoende reden dat de
fening niet kon worden afgelast
dat ze al verscheidene maanden. W
voren in voorbereiding waren zation
men. De Amerikaanse senator is
donderdag na een bezoek van drie
dagen, tijdens hetwelk hij bespre
kingen voerde met onder meer pres
sident Tito, naar de Sovjet-me
doorgereisd. Hij zel weer onder de
Indruk te zijn van zijn gesprekken
met het Zuidslavische staatshoofd.
lijk halfrond
er
Cuba
hington
en donder
nalaten te voorkomen dat de invoer
ult Latijns-Amerika. nog meer san
an ministers beperkingen onderhevig wordt ge-
maakt.
alfrond in
xenodigd op
folgend jaar
en van het wex-
Rexico-stad twee
gar had zich niet
uw in de prul-
Minister Kis-
lijk zeker van
nigde Staten in
te zijn in verle-
vragen omtrent
bijeenkomst te
enkomst wordt
n de organisatie
en op vrijdag in
EMBARGO
jue waarmee de
komst hebben af-
over Cuba ge-
hts economische
neden. Niettemin
memers dat het
ultaat van de
hington is, dat de
eld lijken te zijn
rgobeleid tegen
matigen. Wat de
en de verschillen
merika en de La-
den gebleven te
ver afschaffing
Emmeringen maar
*
20 werknemeri schorste omdat j
shirts droegen, waarop het publiek
werd verzocht de Canadese posteriten
te boycotten. De werknemers willen
looneisen stellen maar de overheid
weigert te onderhandelen totdat ie
dereen weer aan het werk is.
138 loodsen op de St. Lawrence -
"vier, die voor alle scheepvaartverkeer
zorgen tussen Montreal en Quebeck
ajn al een werk in staking omdat alj
een onmiddelijke loonsverhoging ri-
sen van 29.000 tot 38.000 dollar per
jaar. De regering heeft hen 35.000
dollar geboden over een periode van
drie jaar en zoekt momenteel naar
mogelijkheden. (AT de loisen te
dwingen het werk te hervatten.
Ook het luchthaven personeel eist
loonsverhoging van rond de 3000 dol-
lar. De acht grootate luchthavens van
thet land hebben de afgelopen week
ср halve kracht gewerkt. Verder
dreigt een stuking van de verkeersicl-
ders.
Irak krijgt
parlement
BAGDAD -Irak krijgt voor het.
eerst sedert de revolutie van 1958 een
volksvertegenwoordiging. Het presi
dium van het progressieve nationale
front" heeft hiertoe besloten, zo is
donderdag bekendgemaakt. Wanneer.
de volksvertegenwoordiging er komt
en of die tot stand zil komen voor al-
gemene verkiezingen, is nog niet de
sloten. In Bagdad staat, een grook
gebouw voor een nationale vergade-
ring maar het is nog nooit gebruikt.
De socialistische Baus-partij en de
communisten werken samen in het
progressieve nationale front.
COUDPRODUKTIE ACHTERUIT
Grote onrust onder
mijnwerkers in Z.-Afrika
JOHANNESBURG - In de afgelopen weken is moord en doodslag in de
Zuidafrikaanse goudminen onder de zwarte mijnwerk