14-00000
104-10234-10141

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DATE: 18 March 1966 FILE NO:

☐ INDEX
☐ NO INDEX

FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: INFO: CITE DIA 89022 FILE ☐ RID COPY

IN BOOK CABLE
KAHI

BUEN COBA LA PA RIOD BRIL
CURI LORE RECI
SAOP GORG SAGO BOGO SJOS SDOM QUIT GAYA
GUAT PRIN TEGU KNGS MEKI MANA PACY ASUN LIMA
SALV PIBO POSN MONT CARA WAVE ALGI
RABA CASB DARE TOKY HONG DOAN BEIR BOMB CAIR
COLO NEWD BRUS COPE HAGU HELS LISB MADR
LOND ROME OSLO OTTA PARI
STOC BERN GNVA VIEN
GMNY BONN BRLN KORL MANI
TYPIC AHSPAWN MAPRON

1. REUTERS DISPATCH DATELINED HAVANA 16 MARCH REPORTED
WIDESPREAD PURGE UNDERWAY OF MILITARY OFFICERS, HIGH OFFICIALS.

CUBAN GOVT AND LEADERS COMMUNIST PARTY. FIDEL CASTRO ALSO REVEALED
THAT SEVERAL CUBAN LABOR UNION LEADERS ARE UNDER ARREST ON EMBEZZLE-
MENT CHARGES. IN ADDITION REUTERS SOURCES STATED THAT SEVERAL
HIGHLY PLACED OFFICIALS WOULD SOON FALL IN THE CLEANUP AND THAT
"FULL INVESTIGATION OF OFFICIALS MORAL AND POLITICAL PRACTICES
ALREADY UNDERWAY IN GOVT MINISTRIES". THE MINISTRIES OF FOREIGN
AFFAIRS AND FOREIGN TRADE WILL BE MOST AFFECTED BY THE PURGE.

ON 15 MARCH, THE FOREIGN TRADE MINISTRY IN A SPECIAL MEETING "APPROVED
THE PURGE" AND ADOPTED A COMPLETE CHECK ON MEMBERS WORKING ABROAD.
NEW RESTRICTIONS ALREADY IMPOSED FORBID THE BRINGING INTO CUBA
RATIONED OR HARD-TO-GET DURABLE GOODS.

COORDINATING OFFICERS
RELEASING OFFICER
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

COPY NO.

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: INFO: CITE DIA 89022 FILE ☐ RID COPY

PAGE TWO

2. QUOTING AN OFFICIAL COMMUNIQUE, REUTERS REPORTED
THAT MAJOR EFIGENIO AMEIJEIRAS, DEPUTY MINISTER OF THE ARMED FORCES
AND MEMBER OF THE CENTRAL COMMITTEE OF THE CUBAN COMMUNIST PARTY,
HAS BEEN DISMISSED FROM HIS OFFICES AND IS TO STAND TRIAL BEFORE
A COURT MARTIAL. THE COMMUNIQUE ALSO ANNOUNCED "THE ARREST OF
SEVERAL DOZEN OTHER OFFICIALS" ON CHARGES OF INDULGING "LA DOLCE
VITA". AN ELABORATION OF THIS CHARGE WAS MADE BY CASTRO IN HIS
13 MARCH SPEECH WHEREIN HE ATTACKED MEMBERS OF CUBAN MISSIONS
ABROAD WHO SPENT SEVERAL MONTHS IN "VAPORS OF PARTIES AND GOOD
BRANDY AND IN COMPANY OF PRETTY YOUNG GIRLS." CASTRO ADDED THAT
THOSE GUILTY OF "PLAYBOY BEHAVIOR" WOULD BE DRAFTED INTO THE ARMY
OR SENT TO WORK ON THE FARM.

3. BACKGROUND: THE PURGE HAS BEEN PRECEDED BY THE TRIAL
ON 7 MARCH BY A REVOLUTIONARY TRIBUNAL OF SEVEN CUBANS
FOR COMPLICITY IN A PLOT TO OVERTHROW FIDEL CASTRO. THE ACCUSED
ALLEGEDLY HAD THE SUPPORT OF SOME CUBAN EXILE LEADERS NOW RESIDING
IN THE U.S. TWO OF THE SEVEN, ROLANDO CUBELA AND RAMON GUIN, HELD
THE RANK OF MAJOR, HIGHEST RANK IN THE ARMED SERVICES. THE STATE
PROSECUTOR REQUESTED DEATH FOR CUBELA AND THREE OTHERS.

COORDINATING OFFICERS
RELEASING OFFICER
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

COPY 10.

--- Page 3 ---

FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: INFO: CITE DIR 89022 FILE ☐ RID COPY

PAGE THREE

4. MAJOR CUBELA WAS A POPULAR AND PROMINENT UNIVERSITY
STUDENT LEADER, AN ARDENT REVOLUTIONARY AND ONE OF THE EARLY COHORTS
OF CASTRO DURING THE BATISTA REGIME. CUBELA WAS ALSO A CLOSE
FRIEND OF CASTRO AND UNTIL THE ARREST RANKED HIGH AMONG THE LEADERS
OF THE REGIME. HIS ARREST AND ABJECT CONFESSION AT THE PUBLIC
TRIAL CONDUCTED IN STALINIST FASHION TRIGGERED OFF A SERIES OF
STUDENT REACTIONS. THE TRIAL IN EFFECT BACKFIRED AGAINST THE REGIME.

5. UPI REPORTS AND OTHER INTERNATIONAL NEWS SERVICES,
INCLUDING ACCOUNTS OF REFUGEES WHO DEPARTED RECENTLY FROM CUBA,
TESTIFIED TO THE FACT THAT ANTI-GOVT STUDENT AGITATIONS OCCURRED.
WALL SCRIBBLINGS ON UNIVERSITY BUILDINGS THREATENED CASTRO, ONE
READING: "ONE HEAD PAYS FOR ANOTHER," ANOTHER READ "OUT WITH FIDEL."

6. BECAUSE OF THE STRONG OPPOSITION TO THE TRIAL, CASTRO
REQUESTED THE STATE PROSECUTOR NOT TO IMPOSE THE DEATH SENTENCES.
IN ORDER PLACATE ADVERSE PUBLIC OPINION THE TRIAL PROCEEDINGS WERE
GIVEN WIDE COVERAGE ON BOTH RADIO AND TELEVISION CIRCUITS. AS A
RESULT, CUBELA AND OTHERS GRANTED CLEMENCY AND SENTENCED TO LENGTHY
PRISON TERMS.

COORDINATING OFFICERS
RELEASING OFFICER
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

COPY NO.

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000

FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: INFO: CITE DIR 89022 FILE ☐ RID COPY

PAGE FOUR

7. THE CUBELA TRIAL WAS USED AS A PEG, I.E., GUILT BY
ASSOCIATION IN THE DISMISSAL AND CHARGES LEVIED AGAINST MAJOR
AMEIJEIRAS WHOSE LOYALTY TO THE REVOLUTION IS "UNDISPUTED" BY
CASTRO. HOWEVER, AMEIJEIRAS WAS STRIPPED OF HIS MILITARY RANK
AND CHARGED WITH THE CRIME OF BEING A PLAYBOY, LIVING THE GAY LIFE.

8. AMEIJEIRAS WAS ONE OF CASTRO'S FIRST REVOLUTIONARY
FOLLOWERS. HE HAD BEEN WITH CASTRO SINCE 1956, WAS ONE OF THE
SURVIVORS OF THE GRANMA EXPEDITION, FOUGHT IN THE SIERRA MAESTRA
IN 1957-58 AND HAD HELD HIGH OFFICE SINCE 1959. IN OCT 1965 HE WAS
NAMED TO THE HUNDRED MAN CENTRAL COMMITTEE OF THE CUBAN COMMUNIST
PARTY.

9. RUMORS ARE CIRCULATING THAT BLAS ROCA CALDERIO,
MEMBER OF THE SECRETARIAT OF THE CP AND CHAIRMAN OF THE CONSTITU-
TIONAL STUDIES COMMITTEE, WILL SHORTLY BE BROUGHT TO TRIAL.
SIMILARLY, THE CHARGES OF MALPRACTICES AGAINST THE MINISTRY OF
FOREIGN AFFAIRS IMPUGNS THE LOYALTY OF FOREIGN MINISTER RAUL ROA
GARCIA HIMSELF. ANOTHER MINISTER UNDER SUSPICION, I.E., GUILT BY
ASSOCIATION, IS FAURE CHOMON, MINISTER OF TRANSPORTATION. THE
ENTIRE MEMBERSHIP OF THE 100-MAN CENTRAL COMMITTEE CREATED IN LATE
1965, MAY NOT BE SPARED AS THE PURGE GATHERS MOMENTUM.

RELEASING OFFICER
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

COPY NO.

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000

FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: INFO: CITE DIA 89022 FILE ☐ RID COPY

PAGE FIVE

10. THE UNDERLYING CAUSE FOR THE "SHOWTRIAL" OF CUBELA,
THE ARREST OF THE DEPUTY MINISTER OF DEFENSE AND THE OUTLANDISH
CHARGES BROUGHT AGAINST MEMBERS OF THE CP AND MINISTERIAL OFFICIALS
ARISES FROM THE IRREVERSIBLE FAILURES OF THE GOVT IN THE HANDLING
OF DOMESTIC AND INTERNATIONAL PROBLEMS. THE SCARCITY OF BASIC
FOOD PRODUCTS HAS WORSENED. RICE, ROOT CROPS, MILK, MEAT CONTINUE
TO BE RATIONED SEVERELY, AND THE AVAILABILITY TO THE CONSUMER IS
NOW BELOW THE 1957-59 LEVEL, DESPITE SEVEN YEARS OF "COMMUNIST
PLANNING". THERE ARE SERIOUS SHORTAGES OF MEDICINE, TEXTILES AND
HOUSING. THE LATTER HAS DETERIORATED IN URBAN AREAS TO A LEVEL
FAR BELOW PRE-WAR STANDARDS. SIMILARLY, CASTRO REPORTED THAT THE
SUGAR CROP THIS YEAR WILL FALL FAR BELOW THE SIX MILLION TONS
HARVESTED IN 1965. SINCE SUGAR ACCOUNTS FOR SOME 80% OF TOTAL
FOREIGN TRADE EARNINGS, 1966 INCOME FROM SUGAR SALES, FACED WITH
DEPRESSED WORLD MARKET PRICES, WILL NOT IN ANY WAY MEET THE COST
OF BASIC IMPORTS, ESSENTIAL FOR SUSTAINING THE NATIONAL ECONOMY.
CASTRO HAS SOUGHT TO RELIEVE THE PRESSURE ON THE ECONOMY BY PER-
MITTING THE EXODUS OF SOME 400 REFUGEES PER MONTH WHO ARE STREAMING
INTO THE U.S. OTHER FAILURES INCLUDE THE FUNCTION OF THE GOC

COORDINATING OFFICERS
RELEASING OFFICER
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000

FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: INFO: CITE DIR 89022 FILE ☐ RID COPY

PAGE SIX

IN THE
ADMINISTRATIVE STRUCTURE WHICH HAS ALMOST COME TO A HALT.
INTEREST OF ECONOMY SOME 60,000 EMPLOYEES ARE BEING DISMISSED
FROM THEIR JOBS. IMPORTANT BUREAUS ARE DENUDED OF COMPETENT
STAFFS. ALSO, THE POLICY OF REPLACING EXPERIENCED FUNCTIONARIES
WITH UNQUALIFIED CP STALWARTS HAS ALSO BEEN EXTENDED INTO THE
ARMED SERVICES. COMMUNIST PARTY MEMBERS HAVE BEEN PLACED IN
COMMAND POSTS AND THEIR WORD TAKES PRECEDENCE OVER THOSE WHO ARE
TECHNICALLY COMPETENT BUT NOT PARTY MEMBERS.

11. PSYCH EXPLOITATION IN MEDIA:

A. EMPHASIZE POINT THAT SHOW TRIAL AND PURGES
DEMONSTRATE THAT IN THE PATTERN OF ALL DICTATORS, CASTRO GRASPING
AT STRAWS, HOPING DIVERT PUBLIC ATTENTION FROM MOUNTING INTERNAL
DIFFICULTIES;

B. COMPARE CASTRO TO NKRUMAH, SUKARNO AND OTHERS
AS LEADERS WHO HAVE BANKRUPTED THEIR NATIONAL ECONOMIES AND SOLD
OUT THEIR NATION TO COMMUNISM;

C. PORTRAY CASTRO IN STATE OF PANIC, HIS RECENT
RANTINGS AND RAVINGS ARE REMINISCENT OF OTHER DEFUNCT DICTATORS;

COORDINATING OFFICERS
RELEASING OFFICER
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

COPY NO.

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000

FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: INFO: CITE DIR 89022 FILE ☐ RID COPY

PAGE SEVEN

D. RAISE QUESTION WHO CAN NOW CONSIDER HIMSELF
SAFE WHEN CASTRO IS TURNING AGAINST HIS MOST LOYAL FRIENDS.
SIMILARLY, CASTRO HAS LASHED OUT AGAINST COMMUNIST CHINA AND
YUGOSLAVIA, HIS FORMER ALLIES;

E. SHOW THAT UNIVERSITY STUDENTS AND PROFESSORS
WHO IN EARLY 1965 WERE "PURGED" ON TRUMPED UP CHARGES OF HOMO-
SEXUALITY ARE BECOMING ASSERTIVE. SIMILARLY, MILITARY OFFICERS,
FALSELY ACCUSED, WILL CERTAINLY RESPOND. THE STUDENTS WITH THE
MILITARY ARE THE TWO POWER GROUPS THAT CAN REVERSE THE TRENDS AS
EXEMPLIFIED TODAY IN INDONESIA;

F. LASTLY, AVOID ALL REFERENCES TO ALLEGATIONS OF
GOC THAT KUBARK INVOLVED IN CUBELA PLOT.

12. ABOVE BACKGROUND AND INFO MAY BE PASSED TO LIAISON.

13. FOR KUTUBE EXPLOITATION:

A. STATIONS WITH CUBAN INSTALLATIONS AND/OR TRADE
MISSIONS ARE REQUESTED MAKE MAXIMUM EFFORT ESTABLISH DIRECT OR
INDIRECT CONTACTS WITH SELECTED CUBAN FORNMIN AND TRADE PERSONNEL
THEIR AREAS. PURPOSE TO EMPHASIZE TO THEM THAT THEIR DOLCE VITA
AND COUNTERREVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES HAVE BEEN REPORTED TO HAVANA

COORDINATING OFFICERS
RELEASING OFFICER
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

--- Page 8 ---

14-00000

FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: INFO: CITE DIR 89022 FILE ☐ RID COPY

PAGE EIGHT

AND THAT TIME HAS COME TO ENSURE THEIR FUTURE THROUGH COOPERATION
WITH ODYOKE. CONTACTS SHOULD BE GEARED TO RECRUITMENT IN PLACE
AND COOPERATION RATHER THAN DEFECTION. SHORT OF THIS, HOWEVER,
SPECIFIC DEFECTION REQUESTS SHOULD ALSO RECEIVE RECEPTIVE EAR.

B. STATIONS REQUESTED CABLE SPECIFIC LEADS IN
ORDER ENABLE HQS GEAR RQMS, LIMITS OF COMMITMENT. RECENT DIP/
TRADE DEFECTORS SHOULD BE QUERIED FOR LEADS IN THIS CONTEXT.

END OF MESSAGE

A/DCHHD/C
C/FE
C/EE
C/AF
C/CA
C/WHD

COORDINATING OFFICERS
RELEASING OFFICER
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
