4-10055-10058; {2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992}

SECRET

Chief of Station, Bangkok
Chief of Station, Rangoon
Chief, Far East Division
Chief of Station, Melbourne

References:
A. DIRECTOR 34594
B. BANGKOK 3988
C. MELBOURNE 6905
D. BANGKOK 3809

Action Required: Please advise if still desired that Melbourne Station contact subject.

1. In response to a brief letter from the undersigned, which queried his general plans, subject has replied per attachment. Please note that he can make himself available after 4 November 1968 for discussions with Melbourne. The Station defers to Bangkok and Director whether it is still desired that we summon subject to Melbourne for talks along the lines indicated in reference D.

2. For Rangoon: Note penultimate paragraph of subject's letter in which he indicates that his daughter and family are planning to leave Rangoon permanently. The manner in which this is phrased leaves it unclear whether they are attempting this overtly or working behind the scenes. The Station notes from BANGKOK 9542 of 1 May 1968 that the daughter is married to a Burma Air Force pilot. Since we do not have any names, it may be unlikely that Rangoon would have any information on the case.

Attachment: herewith

Letter

Distribution:
COS, Bangkok w/att 1 cy
COS, Rangoon w/att 1 cy
C/FE w/att 2 cys

FAMA 5803
10 October 1968
(8 October 1968)
Not known
CS COPY

201-073217

---

14-00000

Alto Fama CA
Dear Mr.

Patrick Pohla
CA. E
BOUGAINVILLE,
NEW GUINEA.

24 October 1968

I thank you for your letter of 9th September, rerouted here.

I am so I could come my way here while passing through Thailand a week ago.

The idea about the subject you wish to discuss with me I think I have an idea. I met a friend on route to Perth and he wanted me to join his business.

Anticipating to hear further from this source, I remained without taking up any job for two months.

I have rejoined the Personnel Office as Assistant. This job can be terminated on one months notice on either side although it's on a permanent basis.

I am an ardent anti-communist and dedicate my whole life to combating this enemy.

Some future must make plans for training.

I am reluctant to take up anything on a short-term basis. I would not like to be in an Austin position like that of the old contract in Vietnam when it expired after two years, despite assurance when the offer was made, that there would be no difficulty.

---

14-00000

I worked hard in Vietnam.

The Vietnamese National Police of Vietnam appreciated my service and awarded me with the National Police Medal with the rare award of Honour.

I felt gratified though that my work was found meaningful although termination of contract I could not understand.

I would very gladly come over to discuss with you after 4 November when the Personnel Officer returns to duty, if you want me to. There is a very important point I wish to discuss concerning a personal matter which can satisfactorily delay my future by a few months if everything works out.

If concerns my daughter, Son-in-law and grandson who are intending to leave Rangoon for good for Australia.

I look forward to hearing from you in due course.

Once again I thank you.

With best wishes

Yours sincerely,

(Somer)

---

14-00000

file
de (xeroxed)
appla
in
VIETA
BOUGAINVILLE
NEW GUINEA.

2nd October 1968.

thank you for your
ruited here
9tha
September
my way
letta
g
2354
coring I would int
passing though Thalbom
here while passing though
ago I think I have an idea
you wish be discuss will are
ronte to Perth and he
idea g.
subje
I met
Th
anted
his t
friend
Anticipating to hear further from this source
job for ud
joni
Live
withins taking up and Monza Rio Tivo
rejoined"
Am
I haven
Personnel Office
ch
gat
job can be terminated
one months notes
on s
side although it' con
I am
permanent
basis
ardent anti-comme
dedicate
cate my
amming to
uning.
whole
to
destroy
life to combating this
freedom.
enemy
fuitive,
نسته و
short-tern
one rest make plans for
reluctant to take up anything he in austen ponti
I would wt like
to
contact in Vietnam when
not considered when
bann
like chat
g
the old contract.
two
years..
despite
the
J
expired after
assurance when the offer
be is difficulty
was made, that there would be us
extension after the initial two years.

---

14-00000

I worked
hara i briet han
Nation Police of biet ham appreciated
шу пучість
Liver
meir awarded
Line
g
th National Polres Medal
matten
felt gratified thingh that my wirk
meaningful although
work
The Victamen
ch
д
Honour.
علانام سنه و
gladly
come
very
over be dis
discuss
I could not waist and
keen
in with
ناصبية
you after
Tovember when the Pusonal Officer returns
duty of you
important point I wish to discuss
personal matter which com
want me to. There
months it
delay
a
very
concerning
facture
Wak
everything way. fatione
by a few
satisfactorily after
daughter, Son-in-law and
to leam
If concerns
ont
grandson whis
Rayoon for good for
I look forward to hearing from
intending.
due coure
your
letta
agam,
with best wishes
any
I thank
you
Austral
Yours Suning.
2
-СУонел).
He
201-073217
