104-10220-10020 (2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992)

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

SECRET 1210142 JUN 70 CITE BER: 3708
DIRECTOR, BONN, FRANKFURT, BERLIN INFO ZURICH

REF: ZURICH 16227, 15 APRIL 1970
(NOT NEEDED BONN FRANKFURT)

1. INBREED HAS REPORTED THAT RICHARD CASE NAGELL, BORN 5 AUGUST 1930, NEW YORK, US CIT, HAS AGAIN COME TO SWISS ATTENTION. IN MID APRIL 1970 HE REGISTERED AT ZURICH HOTEL. ON 15 APRIL 1970 REPORTED TO POLICE THAT HIS RAINCOAT HAD DISAPPEARED. CLAIMED THAT AN IMPORTANT DOCUMENT INTENDED FOR THE AMERICAN MILITARY AUTHORITIES IN BERLIN WAS IN THE POCKET. DOCUMENT WAS ENTITLED "FISCAL YEAR 70 (USAREUR)."

2. RAINCOAT WAS FOUND SHORT WHILE LATER IN HOTEL SANS ALLEGED DOCUMENT. HOTEL TURNED RAINCOAT OVER TO ZURICH POLICE WHERE SUBJ SUBSEQUENTLY PICKED IT UP.

3. WHEN QUESTIONED BY POLICE, SUBJ GAVE AS REFERENCES:

A. COL. FRANCIS H. DILLON, OFFICE OF COUNTER INTELLIGENCE AND SECURITY, DIA, WASHINGTON.

B. FRANCIS X. PLANT, SPECIAL ASSISTANT, OFFICE OF UNDER SECRETARY OF ARMY.

C. BRUCE A. FLATIN, PUBLIC SAFETY SECTION, US MISSION

SECRET

201-746537.

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

PAGE 2 BERN 708 SECRET BERLIN.

4. SUBJ CLAIMED HE NOW LIVING HOTEL STADT DRESDEN, BERLIN-CHARLOTTENBURG, STUTTERTER PLATZ 17.

5. BONN FRANKFURT BERLIN: SUBJ IS FABRICATOR AND MENTAL CASE WHO PERIODICALLY CAUSES TROUBLE FOR SWISS AND UNPURE CONSULATES IN SUISSE.

6. REQS: REQUEST PERMISSION PASS INBREED INFO CONTAINED PARA DIRECTOR 80955, 6 MARCH 1969. OTHER ADDEES: PLEASE ADVISE APPROPRIATE US ARMY AUTHORITIES ON OFF CHANCE THEY ARE MISSING COPY OF "FISCAL YEAR 70 (USAREUR)."

7. FILE 201-746537. GP-16

SECRET
