2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

104-10076-10372

TO: DIRECTOR
FROM: UMWAVE
ACTION: CAS 8
INFO: RET, IC 2, CON 6, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROF, CI/OPS, FI/D, F, AD/LI 2, AD/NE, AD/RR 3, NR, RI/AN, WA 7, C5/1, TDCS
12 DEC 06 0452763 IN 78734
FT 1200282
TE WAVE 8024
INTEL TYPIC
SUPDATA: AMLISP-1 IN SW MSG 315 DTD. NOV 63.
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce
NOV 63 RECD FROM TRANSLATION 30
SUBSOURCE IS REBECA (ALBERT WHOSE FRANCE IS UNCLE, JUAN FRANCISCO HERNANDEZ (PER SW 328 DATED 28 NOV), IS A NOTARY WHO RESIDES NEAR TORRENS AND WHO REPORTED OBSERVATIONS OF TRAFFIC. FIELD COMMENT SHOE. RID: INDEX: FILED 1200287.
REPORT CLASS: SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM CONTROLLED DISSEM CUBA
SUBJ: TRUCK TRAFFIC AND TUBE-LIKE OBJECTS SEEN ENTERING TORRENS BASE
DOI: 9 OCT - 7 NOV 63 PADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (30 NOV 63)
UFG-4246
SOURCE: A FORMER CUBAN GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEE WHO HAS THE
IN COMMENT: RELEASING 1902.
THIS CABLE HAS
GUTSIDE THE AGENCY
BY THE ACTION UNIT.
PRECEDENCE ROUTINE
PRIORITY
DATE DISTRIBUTED:

14-00000
DELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

COUNTRY
SUBJ:
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET
SUPORT NO. TOCS
DATE DISTR
PRECEDENCE
DATE OF
INFO.
PLACE &
APPRAISAL
SOURCE:
REFERENCES
FIELD REPORT NO.
IN
34
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.
AS OF 7 NOVEMBER 1963, AFTER 10:20 P.M. ALMOST EVERY NIGHT TRUCKS AND TRAILER TRUCKS COVERED WITH CANVAS WERE OBSERVED TRAVELING TOWARD TORRENS THE FORMER REFORMATORY ON THE WAJAY HIGHWAY SOUTHWEST OF HABANA.
ON 11 OCTOBER SIX LARGE TRAILER TRUCKS ENTERED TORRENS AND
9 OCTOBER, TEN MORE OF THESE LARGE TRAILER TRUCKS ENTERED THE BASE. AN UNIDENTIFIED DRIVER OF A VEHICLE TRAVELLING BEHIND ONE OF THE TRUCKS REPORTEDLY OBSERVED TUBE-LIKE OBJECTS WHICH PROTRUDED AT LEAST ONE METER BEYOND THE TRUCK BED OF ONE OF THE TRAILERS, WHEN BY CHANCE WIND BLEW TO ONE SIDE THE TARPAULIN COVERING THE TRAILER'S CARGO
CONTROLS
SECRET
TELEGRAM INFORMATION
RAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

14-00000
SECRET
78734
FIELD COMMENT - THE TORRENS SURFACE-TO-AIR MISSILE ASSEMBLY AREA WAS ACTIVE DURING THIS PERIOD, ACCORDING TO A USUALLY RELIABLE SOURCE.
FIELD DISSEM: NONE.
END OF MESSAGE
CLASSIFICATION
HMADOR CONIBOU
