```markdown
14-00000

104-10164-10097
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
201-299292
Aug 76 - Oct 76
Vol I

14-00000
ANDO BOSCH AVILA
October 1976 IKS laterad QF6 181 Ger
hat no saas immigration status. lo 196
telephone that
vas granted an
rd but he never fulfilled the requirements to become a 0.8.
In 1973 he was granted sadap indefinite voluntary departure,
Maine

14-00000
OUTGOING MESSAGE
14.
far
2438932
CASSO
after, 1/2sa/10, clups
2/312
IMMEDIATE IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERV
DIVISION. ATTN: LEE BEAUChamp Y
SECRET-WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES
INVOLVED
CIR-336/04436-76 V
SUBJECT STATUS OF ORLANDO
BOSCH AVILA
936476.
GENCE
METHODS
THIS AGENCY WOULD APPRECIATE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE
F
CLARIFICATION ON THE CURRENT IMMIGRATION STATUS OF ORLANDO
SCH AVILA, CUBAN EXILE BORN 18 AUGUST 1924, SANTA CLARA.
CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. EXEMPT FROM 1988
GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE OF E.O. 11652. EXEMPTION
CATEGORY 58 (2). IMPOSSIBLE TO DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC
DECLASSIFICATION.H
FILE 200-12-200/1, 203-299292.
TRAVEL PROSEAN
3)
(6.1931 (11)
BATE 28 OCT 7b
ORIO: M. GINNAA
UNITILA/SB/CH
BET
3473
AC/LA/SB
RECORD COPY
CLOPS/LSN
GOGROMNATING OFFICER
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
32200- -12.200/1
FOR FILING
316/04416-76
280076
013299292
IMPORT

14-00000
OUTGOING MESSAGE
18-1
STAFF
LA MPO
PILS
282232
DIRECTOR
me 17/12
SANTIAGO INFO CARACAS, SAN Jose. Y
UNINTEL & Bosch part
REFS
SANTIAGO 35326 (IN 0777491 HCS-101772 (SENG KELAYED SAN JOSE)
SANTIAGO 35332 (IN 0795991 0(NOT WERDEO SAN JOSE) Y
FOLLOWING IS CORRECTION ISSUED FOR HEADQUARTERS CUSTOMERS
ON 25 OCTOBER 3976: "A FOUR-PAGE INFORMATION REPORT WITH THE ABOVE
HEADING AND NUMBER WAS ISSUED ON 22 OCTOBER 3976, ACCORDING TO
PARAGRAPH FOUR OF THAT REPORT, THE PASSPORT FOUND IN THE POSSESSION
OF ORLANDO BOSCH WAS ISSUED IN CHILE IN 1966. ON 26 OCTOBER. THE
SOURCE OF PARAGRAPH FOUR CORRECTING HIS EARLIER INFORMATION, REPORTED
THAT BOSCH'S PASSPORT WAS AN ORDINARY CHILEAN PASSPORT BEARING THE
NUMBER 26583 AND WAS ISSUED IN SANTIAGO ON 25 SEPTEMBER 1975."y
9.
REF A BEING RELAYED TO SAN JOSE FOR DISSEN TO AMBASSADE
FILE: 201-299292. E2 IMPDET.H
LA COMMENT: REF A CHILEAN GOVERNMENT INFORMATION ON CURAN EXILE
LEADERS ORLANDO BOSCH AND ROLANDO OTERO
. UPDATING ON BOSCH'S PASSPORT-
DATE: OCTOVER 1976
ARY GINN
'UNITI
KX LA/SB/CH
1473
C/LA/MCA
مصاح
LA/PNC
RECORD COPY
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
280cf76
2201-299292
AC/LA/SO
GATING OPPISSA
IMPOET

14-00000
COUTGOIN
SIONAL CO
-
MESSAGE
14-1
FO:
2819432
STAVADO
0/1/82; 1/250/10
6/212
934476
DISSEN BY
.
IMMEDIATE IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE//INTE ELLIGENC
DIVISION:♥ ATTN: LEE BEAUCHAMP Y
SECRET-WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS
INVOLVED EY
CIR-316/04436-76 V
SUBJECT:
STATUS OF ORLANDO
BOSCH AVILA
3. THIS AGENCY WOULD APPRECIATE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE
CLARIFICATION ON THE CURRENT IMMIGRATION STATUS OF ORLANDO,
50
AVILA, CUBAN EXILE BORN 18 AUGUST 1926, SANTA CLARA.
CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER, EXEMPT FROM BUS
GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE OF E.O. 11652. EXEMPTION
•
CATEGORY SB (2). IMPOSSIBLE TO DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC
DECLASSIFICATION.H
FILE: 200-12-20011, 203-299292.
DATE
28 OCT 76
ORIGIN. GINNAA
UNIT LA/SB/CH
AC/LA/5B
EXTI 2473
COPS/LEN
GATIO
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE E PROHIBITED
8 2
CL BY
IMPDET

14-00000
CABLE SEC DISSEN
PERSONAT NO
=
ADVANCE COP
=
ACTION ANT
LAS
ACTION &
FILE
VA
▼ 336956
ELA875
SECRET
ANHAN depting clust
Ais/663 0003,
PAGE 81
£ THA
Sun office a TED
STAFF
TOR12815152 OCT 76
-
2815022 OCT 76 STAFF
CITE SAN JOSE 20051
TOR DIRECTOR INFO SANTIAGO, CARACAS. P
UNINTEL RYBAT FUDHELL
REFSI A. SANTIAGO 35352 (IN 081609) LASTECH
IN 882793
SJOS 28851
Source:
HUGALLY-I
SAN JOSE 19715 (NOT SENT CARACAS) (CN 978488)
FOLLOWING COMMENTS RE PARA 2 OF REF A ARE BEING
REPEATED FOR CLARIFICATION.
HASOCOSTA
20 PER PARA 1 OF REF B, IT WAS COS RICAN PRESIDENT DANIEL
"
BER QUIROS WHO APPARENTLY CONJURED-UP INVOLVEMENT OF
h
ORLANDO BOSCH IN THE ARMS MOVEMENT STORY DISCUSSED BETWEEN
COSTAN RICAN FOREIGN MINISTER GONZALO FACIO AND CHILEAN
AMBASSADOR COSTA RICA WORGE ARANDA PARRA. "CONFIDENTIAL
FUNCTIONARIES OF THE U.S. EMGASSY" (ACTUALLY U.SHAMBASSADOR USING
STATION INFO? WHO ADVISED THE COSTA RICAN GOVERNMENT OF AN ULTRA-,
RIGHTIST PLOT DID NOT REPEAT NOT MENTION THAT BOSCH WAS INVOLVED IN
ANY WITH THIS PLOT, AND STATION HAS NO INFORMATION INDICATING
THAT BOSCH WAS INVOLVED.
ALLEGED INVOLVEMENT OF BOSCH WAS APPARENTLY PURE INVENTION
BY PRESIDENT ODUBER AND FOREIGN MINISTER FAGIO AND THEY TOLD INVENTION
8201-300985
0200-12.800/1
RECORD COPY
280476
201-299292

14-00000
CABLE SEC DISSEN BY
PECSON UNIT NOTIFIED
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SUCTIED
ACTION
ין
N
ACTION:
RF
FILE
VR
TOTAL CORES
SECRET
PRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN
IS BIG OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
STAFF
336956
EIA875
PAGE 02-02
TORI 2815152 OCT 76
IN 882793
SJOS 20051
TO ARANDA POSSIBLY TO STRENGTHEN THEIR CASE SINCE BOSCH TRAVELLED
ON CHILEAN PASSPORT.
FILE! 201-300985 208-12-200/1.
E2 IMPDET.
#
"
"

14-00000
OUTGOIN
MESSAGE
OMF
GRE
ALCENTER ONS
-
100
0
CONF:
FILE
18 ULFO:
-ROUP
272336Z
CIA/DDO
14.2
FRE ChPAN, CLON/ID, chis,
dhövlid,
cbis/iNT
ASSEN.
934375
DISSEN BY
PER
TO: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION//ATTN: R.K. MCHARGUE/GENERPI.
".
INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION.Y
1
T
SECRET-WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE IN ELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS
201
INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS--NOT RELEASABLE TO
CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS Y
* FIRCI-312/03218-76 4.
SUBJECT: CONTACT BETWEEN ORLANDO BOSCH AND THE NOVO BROTHERS IN
MIAMI SHORTLY BEFORE THE ASSASSINATION OF ORLANDO LETELIER Y
1'
3. SOURCE OF PARAGRAPH 2: A VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT DEMPLOYEE
WHOSE POSITION GIVES HIM ACCESS TO OFFICIAL REPORTS ON VARIOUS
SUBJECTS.HIS RELIABILITY HAS NOT BEEN ESTABLISHED. THIS INFORMA-
TION SHOULD NOT BE DISCUSSED WITH FOREIGN OFFICIALS, INCLUDING THOSE
OF THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT.4
SINCE HIS ARREST ON 15 OCTOBER, 1976 ORLANDO
AVILA CUBAN EXILE LEADER, HAS ADMITTED TO AN OFFICIAL OF THE
VENEZUELAN DIRECTORATE FOR THE SERVICES OF INTELLIGENCE AND
PREVENTION DISIP THAT HE HAD CONTACT WITH THE BONOVO
ROTHERS'
IN MIAMI SHORTLY BEFORE THE ASSASSINATION OF ORLANDO LETELIER,
DATE. 19
UNITI
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
Bosch
201
IMPORT

14-00000
OUTGOING MESSAGE
OMF
0
SECRET
SIGRALCEV V D
-
0 0
CONF:
INFO: FILE
934175
2
DISSEN BY:
P&D
CHEADQUARTERS
FORMER CHILEAN AMBASSADOR TO THE UNITED STATES..
COMMENT: ACCORDING TO A NUMBER OF PRESS ARTICLESS IGNACIO NOVO
AND GUILLERMO NOVO HAVE BEEN CHARGED BY SEVERAL OF THEIR
COMPATRIOTS IN VENEZUELA AS BEING RESPONSIBLE FOR THE ASSASSINA-
TION OF ORLANDO LETELIER. IT IS BELIEVED THAT YOUR AUCHTEL BUREAU
HAS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON THE NOVO BROTHERS IGNACIO AND
GUILLERMO.34
CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER:
XGDS-2.1
BASED ON: CARACAS 31234 IIN 080249)
WKSCARLET CUKSCARLET-17)
OBJ:
CI/R&A W. GODSON(TELECOÖRD>
SILAVINE Beardsler?:
C/LA/RR
2.9. min
Is SuffesT: ADDITIONAL DISSEN TO du.
DATE 27 OCTOBER 76
MORGINNIAA
ORIGI
UNITI
LA/SB/CH
3473
Tkan for
OFFICES
Alim
VALMAZN
1
REPROULE BY GINER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IL PHL
E 2
IMPFIT

14-00000
TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
abct co
LA 30
TETION O
PV
FILE, VR, SETSVEITTU, ARZAN, LID. CPS/INT,
OSG/IC 2.
GIA113
14
BY: :00
AGENCY MESSAGE
"
IN 881648
SAGO 35351
PAGE 81
TORI271832Z OCT 76°
SE
271700 OCT 76 INTELL
HCS-30.775
CITE
430 35351
Arc
TO:
RIORITY DIRECTOR INFO CARACAS.
HRS.
SAN JOSE.
гр
NNINTEL
SUPDATA:
ZRWAHOO FOR HOS REVIEW. SOURCE: FUDOUBLE 49 FROM
DOCUMENT CITED. COPY OF WHICH WILL BE FORNARDED HOS.
SEE OPS CABLE PRIOR DISSEM. RELATED TO ODIKIA.
NOT PASSED LOCAL LIAISON, INDEX BOSCH, DAVANZO
L BY 04669,
FILED I 271700Z
FIWEI
XXXXX
15-5-1/1.
REBORD
D15-5-1
2700
DOC. MICRO. SEA,
DEC 8 1978
MICROFILMED
MAT.
F
KASACH
270cf76
201-294292

14-00000
The following
in any other docu
edvance infor
SECRET
CIA INTERNAL USE OF
INTELLIGENCE INFORMATION "CABLE
WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELICEVE SOLTS AND METHODS INVOLVED
22 OCTOBER 1976
BNC 2723643
PAGE 1 OF
PAGES
ined from a CIA field station, requires review within the Directorate of Operations before being used
ation, or released outside the Agency. Pending results of review, a copy is provided for your
DISSEMINATION AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATOR
DISTRIBUTION TO: SDO
REPORT CLASS SECRETARNING NOTICE--SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE
SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN
NATIONALS -NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/
CONSULTANTS--DISSEMINATION AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION
CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATOR
COUNTRY:
DOI:
CHILE/COSTA RICA
FEBRUARY-MARCH 1976
...
- PORT Ct BY 967622
SUBJECT: ADDITIONAL DATA ON CHILEAN IDENTITY DOCUMENTS USED
BY ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA
ACQ
CHILE, SANTIAGO (27 OCTOBER 1976) FIELD NO. HCS-101775
SOURCE: A MEDIUM LEVEL GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL WITH GOOD ACCESS
TO OFFICIALS OF THE MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS.
HIS REPORTING IS FAIRLY RELIABLE.
(FIELD COMMENT: HCS-10.772 (
201-279272
FROM THE SAME SOURCE REPORTED CHILEAN CONCERN OVER THE FACT
THAT ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA HAD BEEN ARRESTED IN COSTA RICA
IN EARLY 1976 CARRYING CHILEAN IDENTITY DOCUMENTS. THIS REPORT
PROVIDES FULL DETAILS OF THE INCIDENT AS REPORTED AT THE TIME
THE CHILEAN EMBASSY IN SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA.).
AGCORDING TO SECRET AIRGRAM NUMBER 2 OF THE CHILEAN

14-00000
3007,
EXTIONG
IR-AN
IN 0816
TDAR
WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED
SECRET
PAGE 2 OF PAGES
FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.
relation)
EMBASSY IN SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA, DATED 16 MARCH 1976. ORLANDO
BOSCH AVILA WAS ARRESTED IN SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA ON 18 FEBRUARY.
1976 ON SUSPICION OF BEING INVOLVED IN A PLOT AGAINST THE
UNITED STATES SECRETARY OF STATE. BOSCH WAS CHARGED WITH HAVING
W
ENTERED COSTA RICA ILLEGALLY USING DOCUMENTATION IN THE NAME OF
HECTOR EMILIO RAMON
ANZO CINTOLESI. AS OF 16 MARCH
M
1976. BOSCH WAS UNDER DETENTION IN-CARTAGO, COSTA RICA. THE
COSTA RICAN GOVERNMENT WAS STUDYING THE POSSIBILITY OF EXPELLING
HIM BUT HAD BEEN UNABLE TO FIND A COUNTRY WILLING TO ACCEPT HIM,
13. WHEN ARRESTED, BOSCH WAS CARRYING THE FOLLOWING CHILEAN
IDENTITY DOCUMENTS:
ka
A BIRTH CERTIFICATE IN THE NAME OF HECTOR EMILIO
RAMON DAVANZO CINTOLESI, ISSUED BY THE CIVIL REGISTRY OFFICE OF
THE QUINTA NORMAL (A SANTIAGO SUBURB) ON & AUGUST 1975. THE
CERTIFICATE WAS SIGNED BY ALBERTO CASAL, A CIVIL REGISTRY
SECTION CHIEF, AND REFLECTED A BIRTH DATE OF 6 AUGUST 1927,
REGISTRY NUMBER 953 OF THE LAS BARRANCAS (A LOWER CLASS SANTIAGO
SUBURB) INSCRIPTION OFFICE. THE PARENTS WERE IDENTIFIED AS
NECTOR
: 8
VANEO AND AMALIA ENRIQUETA
CHILEAN IDENTITY CARD NUMBER 2357422,
Ja
BUED IN
RET

14-00000
L
KOLFES REVIOUS
EDITIONS
WARNING NOTICE
IR
IN 081640
TORR
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED
SECRET
PAGE 3 O
PAGES
FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.
SANTIAGO. THE CARD ALSO LISTED A TAX IDENTIFICATION NUMBER OF
2.357.422-5. (FIELD COMMENTI NO DATE OF ISSUANCE WAS REPORTED
FOR THIS ITEM.)
AN AUTOMOBILE TITLE FOR A SIMCA 1083. ISSUED BY
THE SANTIAGO PROPERTY REGISTRY OFFICE ON 21 SEPTEMBER 1966 AND
BEARING REGISTRY NUMBER 682712.
31
CHILEAN ORDINARY (RED COVER) PASSPORT NUMBER
26583. ISSUED 25 SEPTEMBER 1975. IN THE NAME OF HECTOR EMILIO
RAMON DAVANZO CINTOLESI. THE PASSPORT CONTAINS PRINTING OFFICE
REGISTRY NUMBER 14441-1975, AND THE SIGNATURES OF VICTORIA.
MORANDOREN AND MARIA ELENA SELMAN AS ISSUING
CICERS. IT CONTAINS THE APPROPRIATE TAX STAMPS, WATERMARKS.
AND SEAL ON THE PHOTOGRAPH
守
THE CHILEAN PASSPORT CARRIED BY BOSCH CONTAINED ENTRY
AND EXIT STAMPS INDICATING THE FOLLOWING TRAVELI
EXIT FROM CHILE VIA PUDAHUEL INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
ON 28 DECEMBER 1975.
BH ENTRY AND EXIT, FROM PANAMA VIA TOCUMEN INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT ON 29 DECEMBER 1979,
ENTRY IN EL SALVADOR ON 29 DECEMBER 1975.(FIELD

14-00000
D 081640
WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS BVOLVED
SECRET
PAGE OF 6 PAGES
FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.
COMMENTS NO PLACE OF ENTRY OR SUBSEQUENT EXIT WAS RECORDED.).
0. ENTRY IN COSTA RICA ON 7 JANUARY 1976, (FIELD
COMMENT NO PLACE OF ENTRY WAS REPORTED.)
*E. EXIT FROM COSTA RICA AND ENTRY INTO NICARAGUA
ON 30 JANUARY 1976. (FIELD COMMENT: NO PLACE OF EXIT OR ENTRY
IA'S REPORTED.)
1.
EXIT FROM NICARAGUA AND ENTRY INTO COSTA RICA ON
SFEBRUARY 1976. (FIELD COMMENT: NO PLACE OF EXIT OR ENTRY
IAS REPORTED.)
BOSCH REMAINED IN SAN JOSE FROM 6 FEBRUARY 1976 UNTIL
HIS ARREST ON 18 FEBRUARY 1976. ACCORDING TO A SECRET SOURCE
OF THE CHILEAN EMBASSY IN SAN JOSE, BOSCH OBTAINED THE FALSE
IDENTITY COCUMENTS FROM A FRIEND IN CHILE WHO IS A COLONEL IN
ONE OF THE BRANCHES OF THE CHILEAN ARMED FORCES. (SOURCE
COMMENT THE SECRET SOURCE OF THE CHILEAN EMBASSY WAS NOT.
IDENTIFIED, BUT CONSIDERING THE FACT THAT THE SOURCE ALLOWED
1. "the
11
Coff
CHILEAN EMBASSY OFFICER TO EXAMINE BOSCHOS FALSE IDENTITY
(DOCUMENTS, IT WAS PROBABLY GONZALO FAC C. COSTA RICAN
FOREIGN MINISTER, IT IS NOT KNOWN IF IN FACT THE CHILEAN
S BECRET SOURCE FAILED TO PROVIDE THE IDENTITY OF THE

14-00000
0836
:
WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS BIVOLVED
PAG
GES
SECRET
.
FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS FORMATION SUBJECT TO
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.
CHILEAN COLONEL OR IF THE PREPARER OF THE REPORT PHRASED IT IN
THIS MANNER IN ORDER TO AVOID DIFFICULTIES WITH HIS SUPERIORS,)
THE REPORT WAS SIGNED ¡V FRANCISCO
CHILEAN CHARGE IN SAN JOSE.
:
PACHECO,
(SOURCE COMMENTI CRUB IS NORMALLY
THE CHILEAN CONSUL IN SAN JOSE, BUT WAS CHARGE IN MARCH 1976
DUE TO THE ABSENCE OF THE AMBASSADOR ON LEAVE. IN OCTOBER 1976.
CRUZ WAS SUDDENLY RECALLED FROM SAN JOSE SHORT OF TOUR, AND
IS EXPECTED TO ARRIVE IN SANTIAGO IN LATE OCTOBER, THE REASON
GIVEN WITHI THE FOREIGN MINISTRY FOR CRUZ' RECALL IS
2
A NIECE OF PRESIDENT AUGUSTO PINOCHET HAD OCCASION TO
REQUEST CONSULAR ASSISTANCE FROM HIM DURING A PRIVATE VISIT TO
COSTA RICA AND FOUND HIM ABSENT FROM HIS OFFICE DURING NORMAL
WORKING HOURS. UNDER CURRENT CONDITIONS IN THE CHILEAN FOREIGN
MINISTRY, THIS IS A PLAUSIBLE EXPLANATION, AND THERE IS NO
CONTRADICTORY INFORMATION AVAILABLE.)
FIELD DISSEMI EMBASSY AT SANTIAGO (PRINCIPAL OFFICERS
ONLY ALSO SENT SAN JOSE (PRINCIPAL OFFICERS ONLY) AND CARACAS
(PRINCIPAL OFFICERS AND LEGATT ONLY),
REPORT CLASS SECRET - WARNING NOTICE - SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE
SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED -- NOT RELEASABLE TO FORBION

14-00000
WARNING NOTICE
NEYTIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND 16
SECRET
FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THE FOMATION SUBJECT
CONTROLS STATED AT MGDOING AND END OF REPORT.
NATIONALS = NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS.
CONSULTA
CONTRACTOR
• DISSEMINATION AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION
CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATOR
CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICE, GD8-2,
301-299292

14-00000
C/LAS
↑ 334884
LA.
1535
s
E/IP/AN, 5/083hxt.
clistes, A61000
0.65 81
TOR 12710838 OCT 76
7480 35352
3717002 OCT 76 STAFF
CITE
COPY
35352
OPO SAN JOSE, CARACAS.
De Borch
CIN ornnila)
SANTIAGO 35326 (NCS-:B.772 ERMAN00) (NOT SENT SAN JOSE)
(IN ORIOLO)
SANTIAGO 35351 (MCS-10.775 ERMANDO)
IN ADDITION TO DOCUMENT REPORTED REF B. FUDOUBLE-49 PROVIDED
CHILEAN EMBASSY COSTA RICA "RESERVADO" AIRGRAN 220/34, DATED
7 JULY 1976, WHICH TOGETHER WITH REP 8. DOCUMENT WERE BASIC DOCUMENTS
FOREIGN MINISTRY ASSEMBLED ON ORLANDO BOSCH, DESCRIBED
IN FILE WHIC
RBF
(SUGGEST REF 4 AND CORRECTION BE RELAYED SAN JOSE.
REMAINING DOCUMENTS WERE NEWSPAPER CLIPPINGS AND DOCUMENTS ORIGINATED
IN OCTOBER 1975 AFTER BOSCH ARREST IN CARACAS.
THE ADDITIONAL DOCUMENT REPORTS THAT IN CONVERSATION WITH
COSTA RICAN FOREIGN MINISTR GONZALO FACIO, CHILEAN AMBASSADOR TO
COSTA RICA JORGE ARANDA PARRA, HAS TOLD THAT "CONFIDENTIAL
FUNCTIONARIES OF THE U.S. EMBASSY" HAD ADVISED THE COSTA RICAN
GOVERNMENT THAT AN ULTRA-RIGHTIST PLOT, LED BY BOSCH, WAS BEING
ORGANIZED IN GUATEMALA TO OVERTHROW THE COSTA RICAN GOVERNMENT,
PACIO WENT ON TO SAY BOSCH CLAIMED TO BE SUPPORTED BY THE GUATE
RECORD COPY
-ti
270o776
201-299292

14-00000
:
L
FILE
$ E
°
E14040
PAGE 82
TOM: 2718838 OCT 76
IN 061689
8480 39358
AND CHILEAN GOVERNMENTS IN THIS PLOT, HE ADDED THAT OF COURSE
NEITHER HE NOR PRESIDENT ODUBER PLACED ANY CREDENCE IN THIS CLAIN,
WHICH THE COSTA RICAN GOVERNMENT HAD INVESTIGATED.
3. ACCORDING TO AMBASSADOR ARANDA, FACIO SUGGESTED TO HIM THAT THE
CHILEAN GOVERNMENT MAKE AN EFFORT TO RECOVER BOSCH'S ALIAS CHILEAN
DOCUMENTATION FROM GUATEMALAN PULICE AUTHORITIES. THE DOCUMENT DOE
NOT SAY CAND F-49 DID NOT KNOW) WHY GUATEMALAN AUTHORITIES HAD THE
DOCUMENTS, BUT APPARENTLY BOSCH REVAINED THEM WHEN HE HAS EXPELLED
FROM COSTA RICA.
STATION DEFERS TO HOS ON HOW TO HANDLE THIS INFORMATION,
COPIES OF BOTH DOCUMENTS BEING FOUCHED 2 NOVEMBER,
፡፡
5. AS SIDE ISSUE, STATION BECOMING CONCERNED OVER SOURCE
PROTECTION FOR FUDOUBLE-49 IN THIS MATTER. BECAUSE HE MADE SAME
ERROR ON DATES IN COMMENTS TO EMBASSY OFFICER (EMBASSY SANTIAGO
(0431202)
10187) AND IN INITIAL REPORT TO STATION (PER REF B. 1966 DATE.
APPLIES TO EARLIEST DOCUMENT IN HIS POSSESSION, WHICH WAS MOTOR
VENICLE TITLE, NOT PASSPORT). CORRECTION TENDS TO CALL ATTENTION
TO THIS COINCIDENCE. STATION PREPARED REF B WITH HIS REGULAR SOURCE
DESCRIPTION, BUT IF POSSIBLE WITHOUT MISLEADING CONSUMERS OR
PROVIDING FALSE CONFIRMATION, WOULD PREFER USE ALTERNATE.

14-00000
L
334884
PAGE 93
T04:2710038. OCT 76
081489
35252
SUGGEST USING FOLLOWING AS ALTERNATE SOURCE DESCRIPTION IF
RESPONS
REPORTER
ERVATIVE CHILEAN BUSINESSMAN WITH OCCASIONAL ADVISORY
IES IN THE FOREIGN MINISTRY, HE IS FAIRLY RELIABLE
PROVIDED THE INFORMATION BASED ON REVIEW OF SEVRET
'AIRGRAN NUMBER 2. OF 16 MARCH 1976, FROM THE CHILEAN EMBASSY IN SAN
JOSE A COPY OF WHICH HË PROVIDED. THIS INFORMATION IS NOT TO BE
DISCUSSED WITH OR USED TO ELICIT INFORMATION FROM OFFICIALS OF ANY
FOREIGN GOVERNMENT."
"
STATION IS ATTEMPTING TO IDENTIFY SANTIAGO ADDRESS WHICH
APPEARS AS MARGINAL NOTATION IN REF B DOCUMENT. FUDOUBLE-49
IDENTIFIED HANDWRITING AS THAT OF COLOMEL ENRIQUE VALDEZ PUGA,
VICE MINISTER OF FOREIGN RELATIONS, WHO HAD DOCUMENT IN HIS
POSSESSION EVER SINCE IT RECEIVED BY FOREIGN MINISTRY (FUDOUBLE-49
DID NOT KNON OF EXISTENCE OF REF 8 DOCUMENT UNTIL 15 OVTODER, WARN HE
NOTED REFERENCE TO IT IN THE SECOND DOCUMENT DESCRIBED ABOVE).
1
ADDRESS IS MIGUEL CLARO 1129. APARTMENT B. AND STATION OPERATING ON
ASSUMPTION. POSSIBLY BOSCH'S SANTIAGO ADDRESS.
201⑉2992921 15-5-1/1, 62, IMPDET:
201-299292

14-00000
L
101
sort...
E
₤4/92, Jose F1.02,
/in/1108
▼ 2016188 OCT
CARACAS 38234
•19932
IN 242248
CARA 31236
KNINTEL RYBat Fudwell
KKSCARLET-17 (4-17) #¿POHTED ON 63 Octodum
MAVILA HAS ADMITTED TO DISIP OFFICER,
CONTACT WITH THE NOVO (PN) BROTHERS IN AND
THE BUMBING DEATH OF OALAND LETEL169
AT ORLANDO
MAD
DEFORE.
ASHINGTON ON
21 SEPTEMBER 1976. N-17 ACGUIRED AJOVE IN DISCUSSIONS WITH DISIP
OFFICERS KNOWLEDGEABLE OF DISIP INVESTIGATION OF BOSCH, AS
J
YET THERE ARE NO AMPLIFYING DETAILS ON CONTACT AND OFFICERS DID
NOT NOTE TO WHOM SPECIFICALLY ADMISSION WAS MADE,
SUGGEST ABOVE BE PASSED TO FR, IF APPROPRIATE.
FILE: 201-89339242 288-10-2034、 E, IMPORT,
TROUS FILE COPY FOR
2016 289222-
58 HOT DESTROY

14-0420
OUTGOING MESSAGE
CLAVIN
41A8
101 FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION//ATYN
INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION.♥
SECRET-WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INDELLIGENCE SOURCES AND PL.HODS
INVOLVED NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NAT
CONTRACTORS OF CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS
PZRCZ-332/03816-76
-NOT RELEASABLE TO
Jien
SUBJECT CONTACT BETWEEN ORLANDO BOSCH AND THE NOVO BROTHERS IN
MIAMI SHORTLY BEFORE THE ASSASSINATION OF ORLANDO LETELIER
1
THIS INFORMA=
3. SOURCE OF PARAGRAPH 21 A VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT BEMPLOYEE
WHOSE POSITION GIVES HIM ACCESS TO OFFICIAL REPORTS ON VARIOUS
SUBJECTS.
TION SHOULD NOT BE DISCUSSED WITH FOREIGN OFFICIALS, INCLUDING THOS
THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT.V
•
HIS RELIABILITY HAS NOT BEEN ESTABLISHED..
SINCE HIS ARREST ON 35 OCTOBER, 1976 ORLANDO BO'S CH
AVILA, CUBAN EXILE LEADER, HAS ADMITTED TO AN OFFICIAL OF THE
VENEZUELAN DIRECTORATE FOR THE SERVICES OF INTELLIGENCE AND-
PREVENTION (DISIP) THAT HE HAD CONTACT WITH THE SONOVO BROTHERS+
IN MIAMI SHORTLY BEFORE THE ASSASSINATION OF ORLANDO LETELIE
DATE:
CHOCS FILE COPY FOR
49292
2010
DO NOT DESTROY
RELEACDIS OP
AUTHENTICATING S
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
IMPORT

14-7200
L
**
OUTGOIN. MESSAGE
DISSEN OY:
934175
.
PLA
FORMER CHILEAN AMBASSADOR TO THE UNITED STATES.. CHEADQUAR
COMMENT: ACC
CCORDING TO A NUMBER OF PRESS ARTICLES. IGNACIO
AND GUILLERMO NOVO HAVE BEEN CHARGED BY SEVERAL OF THEIR
COMPATRIOTS IN VENEZUELA AS BEING RESPONSIBLE FOR THE ASSASSINA-
TION OF ORLANDO LETELIER. IT IS BELIEVED THAT YOUR METER BUREAU
HAS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON THE NOVO BROTHERS, IGNACIO AND
GUILLERMO.34
AR!
"..
CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XGDS-1
BASED ON CARACAS 31234 (IN 0802491
WKSCARLET CUKSCARLET-17)
OBJ:
CI/R&A H. GODSON CTELECOORD)
C/LA/PNC Reardday
C/LA/RR ..
* CS SUPPESTS ADDITIONAL DISSEN TO 4u.
27 OCTOBER 76
M. GINNAA
LA/SB/CH
3473
Far fors
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THẾ ISSUING QI

14-00000
OMF
OUTGOING MESSAGE
./2A8
19-2
PILS
2003
Pas clip
CIA
"/250/10, TOPS
932740
DISSEN BT.7
PER Sop
TO
/C12 AGC/000 /OPS/1762
Plom52
IMMEDIATE FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION//INTELLIGENCE
DIVISION CINTD/3).Y
0132
20
SECRET/WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES, AND METHODS
INVOLVED - NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS Y
1
SUBJECT ARRIVAL IN PUERTO RICO OF CUBAN EXILE GUSTAVO CASTILLO Y
IR-316/03983-76 Y
J
THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION ACQUIRED ABROAD IS FOR YOUR
ง
INFORMATION AND WHATEVER ACTION YOU DE