2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET 180930Z AUG 71 CITE ADDIS ABABA 1027

HEADQUARTERS

MHCURB RYBAT MHCHAOS

1. JEPYX/1, WHO ENTERTAINED HOSEA WILLIAMS, SCLC LEADER, IN HIS HOME DURING LATTER'S RECENT VISIT ETHIOPIA AND ALSO ATTENDED LECTURE-QUESTION SESSION AT HOME OF 201-879961 AT WHICH WILLIAMS TALKED TO GROUP APPROX 50 ETHIOPIANS AND OTHER NATIONALITIES, HAS REPORTED FOLLOWING INTERESTING FACTS AND OBSERVATIONS WHICH STATION BELIEVES MAY BE WORTH REGISTERING IN HQS MHCHAOS FILES.

2. AT LECTURE AT HOME OF 201-879961, WILLIAMS STATED THAT HE KNEW JKLANCE HAD ARRANGED ASSASSINATION MARTIN LUTHER KING. STATED THAT HE ALSO SUSPECTED JKLANCE INVOLVEMENT IN ASSASSINATION MALCOLM X BUT HE NOT AS SURE ABOUT THIS AS ABOUT ASSASSINATION KING.

3. WILLIAMS HAS HAD NO LUCK IN GETTING VISA FROM CHICOMS FOR PEKING VISIT. HE TOLD JEPYX/1 HE WANTED TO GO TO PEKING TO GET CHICOM COMMITMENT TO PLAN FOR UNIFIED EFFORT AMONG ALL COLORED PEOPLES TO FIGHT RACIAL DISCRIMINATION WORLDWIDE. HE NOW SENSES THAT HE GETTING SOMEWHAT OF RUNAROUND FROM CHICOMS AND THAT PEKING APPARENTLY NOT ENTHUSIASTIC ABOUT VISIT THOUGH STILL HAS HOPES OF BEING ABLE GO CHINA FROM NEW DELHI WHERE HE PROCEEDED FROM ETHIOPIA.

4. IN PRIVATE TALKS WILLIAMS DISPLAYED CURIOUSLY AMBIVALENT ATTITUDE TOWARD MARTIN LUTHER KING HE CLEARLY HARBORS RESENTMENTS OF KING'S RELATIVELY AFFLUENT BACKGROUND AS COMPARED WITH HIS OWN.

5. WILLIAMS HAD SOME CONTACT WITH ETHIOPIAN STUDENTS AND INTELLECTUALS CRITICAL OF REGIME AS WELL AS WITH SOME SOUTHERN SUDANESE AND THIS HAS OPENED UP HIS EYES TO PROBLEM OF INDIVIDUAL FREEDOM IN AFRICA. JEPYX/1 ASKED HIM HOW HE LOOKED AT PROBLEM OF FUTURE OF FREEDOM FOR INDIVIDUAL IN AFRICA AS COMPARED WITH FREEDOMS OF INDIVIDUAL BLACK AMERICANS AND HE ADMITTED THAT PROSPECTS FOR EXPANSION INDIVIDUAL FREEDOM IN AFRICA DID NOT SEEM GOOD AND THAT BOTH BLACK AMERICAN'S PRESENT STATUS AND PROSPECTS APPEARED SUPERIOR TO CONDITION AFRICANS ON THIS SCORE.

6. OVERALL JEPYX/1 EVALUATION WILLIAMS: "HE HAS A LOT TO LEARN AND THIS TRIP IS OPENING HIS EYES AND CONFRONTING HIM WITH FACTS AND IDEAS HE OTHERWISE COMPLETELY UNAWARE OF. HE IS LIVELY TO PROFIT FROM IT BECAUSE HE IS BASICALLY INTELLIGENT AND CAPABLE AND NOT JUST A NUT LIKE JOMO LOGAN."
GP-1.

SECRET
