```markdown
14-00000

104-10291-10013

| 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

STANDARD FORM 66

October 1949

APPROVED BY CIA FOR INCLUSION

IN FEDERAL PERSONNEL MANUAL

(See Chapter 295, Federal Personnel Manual)

Official Personnel Folder

448919

JDB 70-274 BCX 23

IMMEDIATELY AFTER USE

RETURN TO ARCHIVES & RECORDS CENTER)

SECRET

NOEL, JAMES A.

QUALIFICATIONS

14-00000

8-3-65

70-274

8-23

Mr. James A. Noel

2057 Flying Hills Lane

El Cajon, California 92020

Dear Mr. Noel:

I am very pleased to forward to you your Letter of Commendation from Mr. Helms and Certificate of Retirement.

Your service medallion has been ordered and, of course, will be sent to you as soon as it is received from the engraver. You should have it in approximately ten weeks.

Sincerely,

F. W. M. Janney

Director of Personnel

Enclosures

Distribution:

1 - Addressee

1 - D/Pers

1 - OPF

1 - ROB Soft File

1 - ROB Reader

CIA Letterhead

OP/RAD/ROB/EGraff:gln 14 May 1975

14-00000

2057 Flying Hills Lane

El Cajon, Calif., 92020

31706

Post Office Box 1925

Washington, D.C. 20013

Dear Mr. Noel:

I am responding to your letter of 27 November addressed to Mr. John F. Blake, former Director of Personnel.

Your request that your Certificate of Retirement and your Letter of Commendation from the Director be released to you was given very careful consideration. I am most sorry to advise that circumstances still prevail which preclude their release.

Sincerely,

F. W. M. Janney

Director of Personnel

Distribution:

1 - Addressee

1 - D/Pers

1 - OPF

1 - ROB Soft File

1 - ROB Reader

OP/RAD/ROB/EGraff:ble (18 December 1973)

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

SECRET

TO:

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE

INITIALS

1. CCS/CSB Mr. Biladeau 12/5/73

2. CH/44 Hqs

3. ROB 205 Magazine

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

FILE

INFORMATION

RETURN

Remarks:

Dick:

Would you please take another look at this one to see if we might now release letter and certificate.

Eleanor

His cover states has not changed. This is his Yearly letter

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.

ROB, 205 Magazine, x2847

UNCLASSIFIED

FORM NO. 237 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

1-67

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

14-00000

2057 Flying Hills Lane

El Cajon, Calif., 92020

November 27, 1973

Mr. John F. Blake

Director of Personnel

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C., 20505

Dear Mr. Blake:

I am writing to you personally and directly at the suggestion of my old friend and new neighbor, Don Marolius.

As the records will show, I retired the spring of 1971 after 40 years of Federal service, 24 of which were with the Agency and predecessor organizations.

At the time of my retirement a small ceremony was held presided over by Mr. Tom Karamessines and I was shown various items attesting to my length of service, dedication to duty etc. However, I was not permitted to take these items with me due to certain cover considerations which I admit have never been quite clear to me. I was told informally in the division that perhaps after a year the items would be forwarded to me. It will soon be three years and I have not yet received them.

I am sure I don't need to tell you how much these items mean to me and what they will mean to my sons in later years. Therefore I would appreciate hearing from you as to the status of these items. I am sure there are many other fellows in the same boat.

Anxiously awaiting your reply, I am

Sincerely,

James A. Noel

14-00000

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

FROM

Chief of Base, Los Angeles

SUBJECT

Retirement Letter & Certificate

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

Action: For your retention

Ref: USLS-416, dated 8 November 1971.

Forwarded under separate cover is the retirement letter and certificate of Cecil J. KLOBUKAR. KLOBUKAR has seen these documents and they are being returned per Reference instructions.

Attachment:

Letter & Certificate u/s/c

INFO

Chief, FR Division

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NON-QUALIFIED

HONOR QUALIFIED

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

ISOLOG/ADMIN

DISTRIBUTION:

1-C, FR w/att u/s/c

Lisle P. HILLQUIT

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

USLT-431

DATE

21 March 1972

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

FILE NUMBER

14-00000

August 25, 1971

Dear Tom -

I am taking advantage of Gene's coming visit to Washington to send you this little note.

We will be moving to the San Diego area the end of this month and hoped to be settled into our new home there by the time mid-September rolls around.

Tom, you will recall that at the time of my retirement you presented me with a letter from Dick, a certificate of service, and (I understood) a silver medallion. All of these items were then returned to be safely stored away until some future date not specified.

I am sure you can appreciate that these items mean an awful lot to me and eventually will mean a lot to my two sons. I realize and appreciate the need, because of cover reasons, for discretion with respect to displaying these items to friends, etc. At the same time I realize that as the years pass the chances of these items getting "lost" or falling between the chairs back home is very good. I do not want to lose them and it goes without saying that I would honor any restrictions that might be imposed in the event they are sent to me.

The outfit in past years has entrusted me with top secrets, with the management of unvouchered funds, with details of sensitive operations. Surely it can now trust me to use intelligent discretion in the safeguarding of these items.

I write about. I would appreciate it Tom if you would take this request into careful consideration.

14-00000

When I saw you last in Washington you promised one day you would be making a trip out to San Diego. I am holding you to that and hope it will be soon.

Lillian joins me in sending you our warmest regards. Don't forget - whereever I am you and the outfit have a sincere friend who is prepared to help out to the best of his ability.

Sincerely,

James A. Noel

14-00000

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: SA/ADDP

SUBJECT: Mr. James A. Noel

14 September 1971

1. Mr. James Noel was uninterruptedly employed by the Department of State from 1931 to 1968 From 1931 to 1944 Mr. Noel was a bona fide Foreign Service Officer. Since 1944 his Department of State employment was in cover status while he was with OSS, SSU, CIG and CIA. He ostensibly retired from the Department of State in 1968. Until his actual retirement from CIA in 1971, he had cover as a consultant for the Department of Army. Mr. Noel received a 35 year certificate and service pin from the Department of State in lieu of the usual CIA retirement documentation and awards. Mr. Noel retired under cover and continues to be administered in this manner.

2. Under current guidelines, personnel retiring from CIA under cover do not receive any CIA retirement documentation or awards since this would be inconsistent with the retention of cover in retirement status.

Erich W. Isenstead

Chief, Central Cover Staff

SECRET

14-00000

22 MAR 1971

Mr. James A. Noel

1807 Sebastian Drive

Burlingame, California 94010

Dear Jim:

As you reach the end of your active career of Government service, I want to join your friends and colleagues in wishing you continued success and satisfaction in your retirement.

You have been privileged throughout your more than forty years of service to your country to face the challenge of important responsibilities. The manner with which you have met this challenge should be a source of lasting pride and satisfaction to you.

May I extend to you, personally and officially, my sincere appreciation for the important work you have done and my warmest hopes that you will find full enjoyment in the years ahead.

Sincerely,

Richard Helms

Director

Distribution:

1 - Addressee

1 - DDCI

1 - ER

1 - C/EAB/OS

1 - D/Pers

1 - OPF

1 - ROB

*Concur:

1 - ROB Reader

Telephone Concurrence

16 March 1971

C/EAB/OS

OP/RAD/ROE/ERanochak:sl (16 March 1971)

* May be shown to Subject but must be retained in Agency files.

14-00000

TRANSMITTAL SLIP

DATE: 22 May 1970

TO: OP/TRB - John McCann

ROOM NO. BUILDING

REMARKS:

Would you be able to get the prior Federal Service file on this fellow. He's now a Career Agent with DOD and making retirement plans.

JAMES A NOEL 055292

SSN 083-36-2788

5/25/70 brequest samlate For RK

7/14/70 signs sent toute than

Gate Dipl file.

9/2/70 - ben P.S. se

9/8/70 - ben P.S. se

FROM: RAD/ROB/E. Graff

BUILDING Magazine

REPLACES FORM WHICH MAY BE USED.

14-00000

UNITED STATES CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, D. C. 20415

REQUEST FOR OFFICIAL FILES

DATE 25 MAY 1970

6-5-70

FILE SSN: 083-36-2388

NAME

NOEL JAMES A.

DATE OF BIRTH

19 MARCH 1911

TO:

National Personnel Records Center

General Services Administration

111 Winnebago Street

St. Louis, Missouri 63118

Please furnish the following material, needed by the Commission for the purpose shown below. The bottom part of this form is for your use as a transmittal. This material will be returned to you as soon as it has served its purpose. Any material classified under E. O. 10501 should be safeguarded and transmitted in accordance with the requirements of that order.

MATERIAL NEEDED:

Official Personnel File

Abstract of Federal Employment

Copies of any interviews held

Copies of interrogatories and replies

All copies of FBI reports of investigation

REMARKS: The official personnel folder for Mr. Noel is in the custody of the Division of Foreign Service Personnel Records, Department of State, Washington, D.C.

PURPOSE:

To: Division of Adjudication and Appraisal

Bureau of Personnel Investigations

U. S. Civil Service Commission

Washington, D. C. 20415

Request for consideration under C.S. Regulation 731.401

Request for consideration under C.S. Regulation 732.401

To answer Congressional or other complaints

For use in considering pending

examination.

Special Request

EMPLOYED: U.S. STATE DEPT.

FOREIGN SERVICE

ENSENADA, MEXICO & GUADALAJARA, MEXICO

26 JAN. 1931

DATE

SIGNATURE

6-18-70

OFFICIAL TITLE

PERSONNEL

IN 502

OCTOBER 1969

The material listed below is attached as requested.

Official Personnel File

Abstract of Federal Employment

Copies of any interviews held

Copies of interrogatories and replies

All copies of FBI reports of investigation

Johnson, Director

Bureau of Personnel Investigations

14-00000

SECRET

27 April 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Retirement Affairs Division

SUBJECT: Mr. James A. Noel

REFERENCE: Dispatch -USFT-1584, 19 March 1970

Attached is a copy of a dispatch from subject, now a career agent in DOD, in which he poses certain questions with respect to his retirement status based on former service with the Department of State. We forwarded the dispatch to Central Cover Staff, for action with the Department of State. We were informed that there is no record of subject's service in Mexico either with the Civil Service or the Department of State, since records have been destroyed.

Since subject's retirement plans are directly involved with the service claimed, it would be appreciated if his records could be checked. Perhaps the Records Center could be checked.

Attachment: As Stated

Virginia C. Lynch

Chief, DO Personnel & Training

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET

DISPATCH

Chief, Domestic Operations

FROM Chief of Base, San Francisco

SUBJECT Retirement Plan

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

INFO

Chief, FR Division

ISOLOG/ADMIN

REF: US73-860, 26 February 1970

1. Reference has been read and noted by subject and headquarters offer to assist him in preparing for retirement is greatly appreciated.

2. There is a matter in which Headquarters could be of assistance and which chief, reasonably, could influence decision on the part of subject to retire before his birthday in March 1971. It is this:

3. Subject was recruited from GOLD on 15 August 1944, to accept employment on 1 July 1941, with the understanding that he would receive credit for the amount of annual and sick leave accrued over a period of fourteen years. According to regulations or practices in effect at that time, subject was not paid for his annual leave but was told that both his annual and sick leave balance would be held in escrow and if he returned to GOLD employ in future the credits would be reinstated. Years ago, subject was assimilated into LNGOLD, and it is now his understanding that the situation has been reviewed and that the initial request of his that the individual's governmental leave could not be granted owing to the fact that there had been a "break in the continuity of

Distribution:

Continued

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

USFT-1634

DATE

19 March 1970

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

FILE NUMBER

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

service" as reflected by the papers submitted by GOLD to LNGOLD in connection with the integration project. The break in the continuity of service was completely fictitious but was entered into the employment record of subject by our cover people for some technical reason not clear to subject. Subject has been in continual government service from 26 January 1931 to date without a single break in service, as his personnel record will disclose. He realizes, of course, that he has long lost his annual leave credit with LNGOLD and the lost annual leave is therefore not a matter of contention at this writing. Rather, he is most interested in now ascertaining whether the 15% which he had when he resigned from GOLD in 1944 can be recovered and added to his sick leave balance now on file. Though Headquarters may feel that such recovery will not affect computing longevity for retirement purposes, the recovery of this sick leave could play an important part in subject's retirement plans. Consequently, he would greatly appreciate it if the appropriate headquarters officials would look into this matter at their earliest convenience.

4. Subject would also like to raise another matter relating to service with the State Department. Subject served from October 1933 to July 1941 at Mazatlan, Mexico, which was then designated by the GOLD as an "unhealthful post" for retirement purposes. Each year of duty at an unhealthful post entitled the employee to one and one half years of credit for retirement purposes. Subject would appreciate learning whether his service at Mazatlan during the period mentioned would, under present rules, entitle him to any retirement credit.

5. A ruling by Headquarters on the two points raised is respectfully requested.

Originated by:

William G. Boland

14-00000

SECRET

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

DATE PREPARED

29 July 1968

1. SERIAL NUMBER 2. NAME (Last-First-Middle)

055292 NOEL JAMES A

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

RESIGNATION

6. FUNDS

V TO V

CF TO V

ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

DDP/DOD

US FIELD

INTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS GROUP

SAN FRANCISCO BASE

14. POSITION TITLE

CHIEF OF BASE

EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED

DAY MONTH YEAR

03 08 68

7. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS NO CHARGEABLE

9129-0256

10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

SAN FRANCISCO, CALIF.

13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

0136.08

18. REMARKS

4. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

REGULAR

8. LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by Office of

Personnel)

12. POSITION NUMBER

0150

16. GRADE AND STEP

GS 16 6

17. SALARY OR RATE

26,640

Subject is reemployable.

1815 H. St.

NW.

WASH., D.C.

18A. SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL

Virginia C. Lynch, C/DO Pers. & Training

DATE SIGNED

18B. SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING OFFICER

DATE SIGNED

8/3/68

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19. ACTION 20. EMPLOY 21. OFFICE CODING

CODE CODE

22. STATION 23. INTEGREE 24. HDQTRS 25. DATE OF BIRTH

CODE CODE

26. DATE OF GRADE 27. DATE OF LEI

28. NTE EXPIRES 29. SPECIAL 30. RETIREMENT DATA

REFERENCE CODE

31. SEPARATION 32. CORRECTION/CANCELLATION DATA

DATA CODE TYPE

33. SECURITY 34. SEX

REQ NO.

35. VET PREFERENCE 36. SERV. COMP. DATE 37. LONG. COMP. DATE

CODE

38. CAREER CATEGORY 39.

CODE

40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO. FEGLI/HEALTH INSURANCE

41. CODE 42. LEAVE CAT. 43. FEDERAL TAX DATA 44. STATE TAX DATA

FORM EXECUTED CODE NO. TAX EXEMPTIONS FORM EXECUTED CODE NO TAX STATE CODE

45. POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION 46. OP APPROVAL DATE APPROVED

FORM 1152 USE PREVIOUS EDITION SECRET

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWNGRADING

AND DECLASSIFICATION

14-00000

SECRET

(When Filled In)

EMPLOYEE NOTICE OF RESIGNATION

FOR THE FOLLOWING REASON.

I RESIGN EFFECTIVE

DATE

08/03/68

MY LAST WORKING DAY WILL BE

DATE SIGNED

SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE

See attached

FORWARD COMMUNICATIONS, INCLUDING SALARY CHECKS AND BONDS, TO THE FOLLOWING ADDRESS (Number, Street, City, State, Zip Code)

1815 H. St.

NW.

Washington D.C.

INSTRUCTIONS

Items 1 thru 7 The initiating office should fill in each of the referenced items. Items 3 thru 7 and 9 thru

Items 9 thru 18a 18 require information, which pertains only to the action requested, and NOT to the current

status of the employee unless specified items remain unchanged.

Item 3 "Category of Employment" should show one of the following entries:

Regular

Part Time

Temporary

Temporary Part Time

Summer

Detail Out

Detail In

WAE

Consultant

Military

Item 9 "Organizational Designations" should show all levels of organization identifying the location of the position:

Major Component (Director, Deputy Director, etc.)

Office, Major Staff, etc.

Foreign Field or U.S. Field (if pertinent)

Division or Staff (subordinate to first line)

Branch

Section

Unit

Items 11 and 14 "Position Title" and "Occupational Series" should be the standard abbreviated title and

Item 15 corresponding occupational series in Handbook of Official Occupational Titles and Codes

for the duties actually to be performed by the employee. If different from the title and

series of the position occupied as shown on the most current edition of the Position Con

trol Register or Form 261, Staffing Complement Change Authorization, explain under Item

18-Remarks.

Item 18b Signature should be that of the official authorized to approve for the Career Service to which

the employee belongs. If more than one Career Service is involved, the gaining Career Servi

ice should approve and the other Career Service should concur in Item 18, Remarks.

ROUTING- The original only of this form will be forwarded to the Office of Personnel through the appropriate

Career Service official (s). In the case of requests specified in HB 20-800-1, which require advance

approval of or notification to the Office of Security or the Office of Finance, one copy only will

be sent to the Office(s) concerned.

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET

(When Filled In)

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

DATE PREPARED

19 April 1968

1. SERIAL NUMBER 2. NAME (Last-First-Middle)

055292 NOEL, JAMES A.

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

REMOVAL FROM CIA RETIREMENT AND

DISABILITY SYSTEM - VOLUNTARY

4. EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED 5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

DAY MONTH YEAR

05 05 68 REGULAR

6. FUNDS 7. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS 8. LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by Office of

V TO V NO CHARGEABLE Personnel)

CF TO V

PL 88-643 Sect. 203.

9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS 10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

DDP/DOD SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA

11. POSITION TITLE 12. POSITION NUMBER 13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, etc.) 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16. GRADE AND STEP 17. SALARY OR RATE

GS 16

18. REMARKS

18A. SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL DATE SIGNED

Virginia C. Lynch, C/DO Pers. & Training

18B. SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING OFFICER DATE SIGNED

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19. ACTION 20. EMPLOY 21. OFFICE CODING

CODE CODE

22. STATION 23. INTEGREE 24. HDQTRS 25. DATE OF BIRTH

CODE CODE

26. DATE OF GRADE 27. DATE OF LEI

28. NTE EXPIRES 29. SPECIAL 30. RETIREMENT DATA

REFERENCE CODE

31. SEPARATION 32. CORRECTION/CANCELLATION DATA

DATA CODE TYPE

33. SECURITY 34. SEX

REQ NO.

35. VET. PREFERENCE 36. SERV. COMP. DATE 37. LONG. COMP. DATE

CODE

38. CAREER CATEGORY 39.

CODE

40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO. FEGLI/HEALTH INSURANCE

41. CODE 42. LEAVE CAT. 43. FEDERAL TAX DATA 44. STATE TAX DATA

FORM EXECUTED CODE NO. TAX EXEMPTIONS FORM EXECUTED CODE NO TAX STATE CODE

45. POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION 46. OP APPROVAL DATE APPROVED

FORM 1152 USE PREVIOUS EDITION SECRET

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWNGRADING

AND DECLASSIFICATION

14-00000

SECRET

(When Filled In)

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

DATE PREPARED

12 OCTOBER 1967

1. SERIAL NUMBER 2. NAME (Last-First-Middle)

055292 NOEL, JAMES A.

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

REASSIGNMENT

4. EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED 5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

DAY MONTH YEAR

10 08 67 REGULAR

6. FUNDS 7. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS 8. LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by Office of

V TO V NO CHARGEABLE Personnel)

CF TO V

50 USC 403

9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS 10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

DDP/WE MADRID, SPAIN

FOREIGN FIELD

MADRID STATION

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF

11. POSITION TITLE 12. POSITION NUMBER 13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

CHIEF OF STATION 0399

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, etc.) 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16. GRADE AND STEP 17. SALARY OR RATE

GS 0136.08

16

18. REMARKS

T/O Change.

18A. SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL DATE SIGNED

Virginia C. Lynch, C/DO Pers & Training

18B. SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING OFFICER DATE SIGNED

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19. ACTION 20. EMPLOY 21. OFFICE CODING

CODE CODE

22. STATION 23. INTEGREE 24. HDQTRS 25. DATE OF BIRTH

CODE CODE

26. DATE OF GRADE 27. DATE OF LEI

28. NTE EXPIRES 29. SPECIAL 30. RETIREMENT DATA

REFERENCE CODE

31. SEPARATION 32. CORRECTION/CANCELLATION DATA

DATA CODE TYPE

33. SECURITY 34. SEX

REQ NO.

35. VET PREFERENCE 36. SERV. COMP. DATE 37. LONG. COMP. DATE

CODE

38. CAREER CATEGORY 39.

CODE

40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO. FEGLI/HEALTH INSURANCE

41. CODE 42. LEAVE CAT. 43. FEDERAL TAX DATA 44. STATE TAX DATA

FORM EXECUTED CODE NO. TAX EXEMPTIONS FORM EXECUTED CODE NO TAX STATE CODE

45. POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION 46. OP APPROVAL DATE APPROVED

FORM 1152 USE PREVIOUS EDITION SECRET

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWNGRADING

AND DECLASSIFICATION

14-00000

SECRET

7 APR 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR: James A. Noel

SUBJECT: Retirement Planning

1. The attached memorandum dated 29 May 1967 from the Director of Personnel concerns current Agency policy on retirement of personnel at age 60.

2. According to our records, you will achieve age 60 on 3/19/71 having completed 40 years 1 month of service. On this basis you would be scheduled to retire on 31 MARCH 1971.

3. If there are any questions relative to your status, please feel free to call Frank J. Dewald, Jr., of the Clan- destine Services Personnel Staff, extension 5476. We also urge you to contact the Retirement Branch, Office of Personnel, extension 3257 as soon as it is convenient for you.

Gerald E. Miller

DDP/OP

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR : James A. Noel

SUBJECT : Retirement Planning

1. As a participant in the CIA Retirement and Disability System, you will reach mandatory retirement at age 60. The prospect of retirement deserves serious thought and planning because of its impact on each of us and for this reason, we are taking this opportunity to provide you with this advance notice that according to our records you will be required to retire on March 1971.

2. Planning ahead can bring about, with each passing year, definite progress toward your retirement goals and the Agency is anxious to assist you in your retirement planning.

3. We would like to make available to you as much information as possible on the general subject of retirement, your annuity estimates, life and health insurance protection in retirement, opportunities for other employment, Social Security benefits, and other additional material which is available. The Agency feels that this type of information and advisory service should be made available and, hopefully, will be used by employees well in advance of the date of retirement.

4. Our Chief, Retirement Branch, on extension 3257, is available to discuss with you any aspect of your retirement planning and we encourage you to contact him.

Emmett D. Echols

Director of Personnel

ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY

14-00000

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Personnel

THRU: DDP/OP

SUBJECT: PCS Return Prior to Completion of Tour

of Duty - James A. Noel

REFERENCE: CSN-20-59, dated 17 November 1965

1. This memorandum contains in paragraph 2 a recom- mendation for the approval of the Director of Personnel.

2. Mr. Noel arrived in Madrid as the Chief of Station on 21 September 1961. After home leave, he returned to Madrid on 7 August 1964, for a second tour of duty which would normally be completed on 6 August 1966. We have been advised that upon completion of his current assignment, Mr. Noel will be assigned as Chief of the DODS field office in San Francisco, California. Since the officer now filling that position is required to leave in early September for another assignment, it is very desirable that Mr. Noel arrive in San Francisco about 6 September. Therefore, it is requested that Mr. Noel be permitted to leave Madrid on or about 1 July 1966. This will permit him to take some home leave and arrive at his new post in sufficient time to settle his family, which includes two school age children, and report for his projected assignment on schedule.

Edward Ryan

Acting Chief

Western Europe Division

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET

SUBJECT: PCS Return Prior to Completion of Tour of Duty

James A. Noel

CONCUR:

The recommendation in paragraph 2 is APPROVED:

(Director of Personnel

SECRET

GROUP 1

Excluded from automatic

downgrading and

declassification

14-00000

SECRET

(When Filled In)

QUALIFICATIONS UPDATE

READ INSTRUCTIONS CAREFULLY BEFORE COMPLETING, TYPE OR PRINT, AVOID USING LIGHT COLORED INKS

Now that your qualifications are a matter of computer record, they must be periodically updated. This is done auto-

matically for much information; however, some must be obtained directly from you. This form is for that purpose.

Section I must be completed in all cases. You need provide other information only if there have been changes since

you submitted your Form 444, "Qualifications Supplement to the Personal History Statement," or a previous update form.

If you are in doubt whether information has been previously submitted, enter it in the appropriate section. The signed

and dated form should be returned through administrative channels to the File Room, Office of Personnel, Room 5E-13

Headquarters, whether information is added or not.

Additionally, a Qualifications update may take place at any time there is information to be added or changed simply

by completing and returning an update form on your initiative.

SECTION I BIOGRAPHIC AND POSITION DATA

EMP. SER. NO. NAME (Last-First-Middle) DATE OF BIRTH

055292 NOEL James Arthur 19 March 1911

SECTION II EDUCATION

GRADUATE

HIGH SCHOOL LAST HIGH SCHOOL ATTENDED

San Diego Senior High School

ADDRESS (City, State County)

San Francisco, California

COLLEGE OR UNIVERSITY STUDY

NAME AND LOCATION OF COLLEGE OR UNIVERSITY

SUBJECT

MAJOR

YEARS ATTENDED (From-To)

DEGREE

YEAR

RECEIVED RECEIVED

NO. SEM/QTR.

HRS. (Specify)

IF A GRADUATE DEGREE HAS BEEN NOTED ABOVE WHICH REQUIRED SUBMISSION OF A WRITTEN THESIS, INDICATE THE TITLE OF THE

THESIS AND BRIEFLY DESCRIBE ITS CONTENT.

TRADE, COMMERCIAL AND SPECIALIZED SCHOOLS

NAME AND ADDRESS OF SCHOOL

STUDY OR SPECIALIZATION

FROM

TO

NO. OF MONTHS

OTHER NON-AGENCY EDUCATION OR TRAINING NOT INDICATED ABOVE

NAME AND ADDRESS OF SCHOOL

STUDY OR SPECIALIZATION

FROM

TO

NO. OF MONTHS

SECTION III PERSONAL DATA

1. PRESENT STATUS (Single, Married, Widowed, Separated, Divorced, Annulled Remarried) SPECIFY:

2. NAME OF SPOUSE (Last) (First) (Middle) (Maiden) 3. DATE OF BIRTH 4. PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State, Country)

Lillian Edith Bobbett 12 January 1911 Colorado Springs, Colorado

5. CITIZENSHIP 6. IF BORN OUTSIDE U.S.-DATE OF ENTRY 7. PLACE OF ENTRY

8. FORMER CITIZENSHIP (S) COUNTRY(IES)

9. DEPENDENT CHILDREN AND DEPENDENTS OTHER THAN SPOUSE

NAME DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH CITIZENSHIP PERMANENT ADDRESS

SECTION IV
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
64.
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.
72.
73.
74.
75.
76.
77.
78.
79.
80.
81.
82.
83.
84.
85.
86.
87.
88.
89.
90.
91.
92.
93.
94.
95.
96.
97.
98.
99.
100.
101.
102.
103.
104.
105.
106.
107.
108.
109.
110.
111.
112.
113.
114.
115.
116.
117.
118.
