104-10066-10010
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SIGNAL CENTER USE

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

STAFF DIRECTOR
CONF: INFO: FILE

DATE-TIME GROUP
161827Z

CITE
125981

DIRECTOR
EUR, IP/OMS, LA, OLC, D004, DOO/DO, ADO/ERO

LISBON, LONDON, MEXICO CITY
RYBAT UNINTEL RNVIEW

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER
NO INDEX

DISSEM BY:
RETURN TO PER

1. U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS WHO CURRENTLY INVESTIGATING CIRCUMSTANCES SURROUNDING ASSASSINATIONS OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY AND DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING HAS TOLD STATE THAT THEY INTEND TO PURSUE LEADS IN PORTUGAL, UK AND MEXICO RELATING TO JAMES EARL RAY, CURRENTLY SERVING TIME FOR KING MURDER. THEY BASING THIS INTEREST ON INFORMATION THAT RAY WAS IN LISBON BRIEFLY IN MAY 1968, SHORTLY BEFORE HIS APPREHENSION IN LONDON IN JUNE 1968.

2. MR. G. ROBERT BLAKEY, CHIEF COUNSEL AND STAFF DIRECTOR OF COMMITTEE SAYS SELECT COMMITTEE TOLD STATE THAT HE WANTS TO ESTABLISH "CORDIAL RELATIONSHIP" WITH APPROPRIATE PORTUGUESE NATIONAL POLICE AND HOPES TO ENLIST THEIR ASSISTANCE INCLUDING ACCESS TO THEIR FILES AND IN LOCATING AND INTERVIEWING POTENTIAL WITNESSES.

3. DEPARTMENT HAS SOLICITED EMBASSY SUGGESTIONS AS TO HOW BLAKEY SHOULD PROCEED.

DO NOT REPRODUCE

ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:

RETURN TO CIA

RELEASING OFFICER COORDINATING OFFICERS AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
CLASSIFICATION REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED E 2 IMPDET
CL BY: 06494

--- Page 2 ---

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

STAFF DIRECTOR
CONF: INFO: FILE

DATE-TIME GROUP
125981

CITE
INDEX
NO INDEX

DISSEM BY:
RETURN TO PER

4. WISH TO CALL ABOVE TO ADDRESSEES' ATTENTION IN EVENT [STATIONS] ARE SOLICITED FOR ADVICE OR ASSISTANCE. RTACTION IS COOPERATING FULLY WITH BLAKEY AND COMMITTEE INCLUDING ALLOWING THEM ACCESS TO DIRECTORATE RECORDS, AFTER SUITABLE SANITIZATION FOR SOURCES AND METHODS. HOWEVER, BELIEVE COMMITTEE'S EFFORTS TO INTERVIEW POLICE AND WITNESSES AND RESULTING USEFUL INFORMATION OBTAINED, IF ANY, IS LARGELY OVERT FUNCTION WHICH CAN BEST BE HANDLED BY LEGATTS OR OTHERS WHO WOULD ALSO BE IN A POSITION TO BE PUBLICLY QUOTED OR IDENTIFIED IF NECESSARY.

5. [STATIONS EXPECTED] TO PROVIDE EMBASSY BEST ADVICE IF SOLICITED BUT REQUESTED TO AVOID INVOLVING [STATION OFFICERS] IN NEGOTIATIONS EVEN IN THEIR [COVER] CAPACITIES. IF CIRCUMSTANCES SUCH THAT THIS UNAVOIDABLE, PLEASE ADVISE HQS BY CABLE SO THAT THE MATTER CAN BE APPROPRIATELY HANDLED WITH BLAKEY AND DEPARTMENT.

ORIG: O/SA/DO/O (SOVERN); COORD: OLC (CUMMINS), DC/LA (LAUDER); C/LA/DC/EUR/BC (C/EUR/IB (BERGER); AUTH: SA/DO/O (KATROSH); REL: DC/EUR (ESTES).
DATE: 14 NOVEMBER 1977
ORIG: MASOVERN
UNIT: O/SA/DO/
EXT: 1542

RELEASING OFFICER COORDINATING OFFICERS AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED E-2 IMPDET
