14-00000
104-10183-10262
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
PRIORITY DIR CITE SALV 5301
DYVOUR PERUEN AMMUG
REFS A. SALV 9296 (N 82314
DR 82999
N-82908
01
ACCORDANCE REFS COS AND LANGOSCH JUHILL
01
SIPRENDER IN COS OFFICE TO BRIEF HIM ON JAVE RECRUITMENT,
IMPORTANCE AND SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS. PEDAS BUCH
ED AND CREED ENTHAMIASTICALLY ONLY HE AND PRESIDENT WOULD
RECRUITMENT
PRESIDENT WOULD KNOW.
06
THEY WOULD MAKE NO RECORD OF IT.
LANGOSCH FOR TEL OUT B
FORTEL
BECAUSE VE 2 IS MOST IMPORTANT LOCAL TARGET.
OTHER COUNTRIES, IS POPULAR UNIVERSITY
LEADER,
WITH AVE
CE OF AND ACCESS TO CONNIE PARTIES SALV
CONTACTS, AS WELL AS AP MILITARY COMMITTEE, TRAVELS
A CO, PRAGUE, NEXT,
29.
YEARS OLD
ALIN PARTY; FOX YEARS
Loss of
COULD PRODUCE
HAS LEFT
SECRET
121BR

14-00000
MESSAGE
SECRET
BRANE CONTACT VE 2.
ACCEPTED WITHOUT QUESTION.
REMANDS, ORDERED ALL HIS FACILITIES AND LINCST
O KUZARK, CCS. AND LANGOSCH BELIEVE THERE WAS NO
SECURITY PROBLEM TO DATE.
HAVE
"DO NOT PLAY HIT ANY OTHER TARGETS SALV AT THIS TIME, EXCEPT
2 OP TOO IMPORTANT TO RISK DRAWING ATTENTION
TE KU PINCE OR RECRUITMENT EFFORTS. PLAN TO CONTINUE
JE AND I INTERROGATION AND RECRUITMENT EFFORT. HIS SILENCE AND
COLLABORATION IMPORTANT IN THEMSELVES BUT ALSO FOR FOREGOING REASON.
ACTEES HANDLE EXACTLY AS KURARY DISHES.
02
HAVE NOT SPECIFIED AMOUNT OF REMUNERATION TO JUNE 2 EXCEPT
THAT IT WILL INCLUDE PAYING COST OF FURTHER STUDIES OF BROTHER IN
WHATEVER COUNTRY MUTAPH CONSIDERING BEST FROM VIEWPOINT OF ADEQUATE
FOR INSTITUTE AS WELL AS FROM SECURITY STANDPOINT.
AFTER
GRADUATION BROTHER HAS SPECIALIZED IN [CANCER RESEARCH] 08
08
ESPECIALLY [FREE CANCER] NOW COMPLETING WORK AT ITED AND
EXPECTED RETURN SALV OCTOBER.
102
HAVE TOLD AVE 2 BROTHER MUST HAVE
SCHOOL AND OTTO ESTABLISH COMPETENCE IN APPLYING FOR
SAME PAYING
ASAP STREET SCHOOLS, HOSPITALS OR RESEARCH
THEN SHOULD APPLY AND WHERE PREFERABLY KUBARK
ITATE RAPID ACCEPTANCE, TOGETHER WITH SUGGESTED
OTHER SPEAKS ONLY SPANISH BUT HAS PALING
02
HAVE HOLD [3]
03
HAVE AND S
2 BROTHER MUST
SCHOLARSHIP ARE STRICTLY ON OUR KUBARK.
SECRET
(?)
121BR
