14-00000

104-10101-10134

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Manuel Aragoil.
CA/95
5852

TO: PARIS/LCPIPIT
5 December 1963.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
RRET
200-124-73/3
J.FO: MEXICO CITY
HOME DIRECTOR
INFO: CA 2, CA/PES
PALP
BIDORIC HREPITOME
HRF: MONT 8437 (IN 72721) RELATED MEAL
C
87036

FOR MEXI: HQS ARS TO REF SAID: A) AGREE WY
CU.FIHOLLED
RUU UNACCEPTABLE AS HOST FOR COSED IT) INTENT OF OCT LISEC LETTER WAS TO
OPEN POSSIBILITY MOVING EVENT ING NEW FUT NOT YET IDENTIFIED SITE, C) COTEC LETTER
WAS AUTHORIZED BY PT SUPERVISION COMMITTEE (SUP COM) MEETING WHICH BLAMED FEUU
FOR FAILURE HOLD EVENT AND TOLD COSEC TO SEEK ANOTHER SITE.

FOR PALP: FOLL SUMMARIZES IS UNDERSTANDING LATIN AMERICAN STUDY
(LASS) TACTICS DISCUSSED WITH KORNILOG

MOST STEP REGARDLESS WHETHER
LASS ULTIMATELY HELD IS SEIZING INITIATIVE ON SITE IN ORDER HOWOR SUP COM DECISION
THIS NOW ESPECIALLY IMPORTANT
AND
SET POSSIBLE INVITATION FROM UNFRIENDLY SITE.
IN STRE
AYOLA
MENS HOST DESIRABLE ZUST FRIM
IN THIS RESPECT KORNELOS AD AVZIA
RELEASING
ITS DEPARTURE EUR. BRIEF HIM ON LASS
KR INVITATION ACT AS HOST
CONTROL AND
SUPPORT
ASSUMING MEXI INVITE LASS CAN BE HELD IF POLL CONDITIONS SAT:
A)
PARTICIPATION MINIMUM 7 DEMOCRATIC UNIONS WITH CLEAR EVIDENCE
RS WILL BOYCOTT SEMINAR

SECRET.
15963

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000
ORIG
UNIT:
EXT
1
DATE:

TO
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF:
INFO
TO
☐ INDEX
BEC
☐ NO INDEX
☐
IN. NO
PAGE TWO
CITE DIR
ROUTING
DEFERRED
ROUTINE
87036

B) ENOUGH COORDINATION WITH UFUCH TO AVOID THEIR ACTIVE HOSTILITY LASS
COSEC AND PREVENT FORCING THEM INTO CLOSER ALLIANCE WITH LABEATHOOD
ON OTHER
C) LIKELIHOOD THAT LASS CAN BE USEFUL FOR EXPRESSION DEMOCRATIC
ECONOMIC QUESTIONS AND DEVELOPMENT GROUNDWORK NECESSARY FOR INC TACTICS.
D) EVENT DOES NOT CONFLICT WITH STATION OPERATIONS.

4. LASS SHOULD NOT BE HELD IF ALL OR ANY PARA 3 CONDITIONS FAIL. PERTAIN AND
ALSO IF:
A) EARLY EVIDENCE WELL ORGANIZED EXTREMES OF UNTERACTION (POSSIBILITY
RAISED BY VEHEMENCE FEUU RESPONSE COSEC LETTER REPORTED IN REF.)
B) PALP HQS JUDGEMENT THAT TIME EFFORT AIMED SUBSTANTIALLY HOLDS EVENT
UNTERPRODUCTIVE DIVERSION RESOURCES FROM OTHER ELEMENTS HREPITOME PROGRAM,
HOT OF INC TACTICS, OR HARMFUL KURARK LATC COUNTERACTION.

5. IF PARA 4 SITUATION UNFOLDS ONE COULD WITHDRAW INVITATION ON GROUNDS
INADEQUATE PARTICIPATION (ASSUMING BOYCOTT) OR CONTINUE AS HOST BUT
FOR POLITICAL REASONS REQUIRE POSTPONEMENT LASS.
SUNDRY

6. FOR PALP: PARA ONE BRIEFING CORDERO WHICH CONTINENT PALP RECEIPT
MENTS. SHOULD HE
UNDERSTAND CARDIO CALLE PARA 2-5 THINKING SO THAT ONE

RELEASING OFFICER
ATTIOFRS
GROUP I
82 CREF
To
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy No

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

IBRE INVITATION ACT AS HOST INCLATER, AWARENESS OF AND COMMITMENT
TO ALL CONTINGENCIES. MOREOVER, CORDERO SHOULD BE ASSURED CONTINUING COSEC
SUPPORT LITERACY SEMINAR AND DESIRE HOLDING THAT EVENT AT EARLIEST DATE CONVENIENT

7. FOR MEXI: HQS BELIEVES IT UNLIKELY THAT PARA 3 CONDITIONS CAN BE MET
ALTHOUGH POSSIBLE THAT THIS EVENT COULD BE USEFUL HQS DISPATCH WILL INCLUDE
BACKGROUND AND DETAILS LASS STRATEGY.
SINCE CORDERO MAY LEAVE EUR SHORTLY
REQUEST COMMENTS TO PALP ASAP.

RELICA
OFFICER
WH/CA Scott Holloway
WH/3/MEX
BER (in draft)
NAMN:

REPRODUCTION BY
OF MESSAGE
MRD CHABLE
erior
