14-00000
104-10171-10020

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

Chief of Station, JMWAVE
INFO
FROM: Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
SUBJECT: DRE Internal Codes Sources and Companion
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES:
A. BARR-0270
B. WAVE-1220 (not sent DIR)

ACTION: MIJN
DISTRIBUTION:
3 - JMWAVE w/1 att.
3 - WHD w/1 att.
ROM: Chief of Bang, IMBAR
JMZIP/KUTUBE/KUDESK/KUSODA
ALL

DATE DISPATCHED: 7 Feb 1962
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: UPKA-1
HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER: 19 - 120 - 19

KAID
UFG
MARKED FOR H
MICROFILMED
OCT 21 1968
DOC. MICRO. BER.
NO FURTHER PROCESSING REQUIRED
CALLY QUAL
HEADQUARTERS DE
CAR JUDGE ODUNG
ABSTRACT
MICKONUM
REFERENCE TO D 14-130/18
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce
61BR

1.  Forwarded under separate cover per reference B request are Subject codes and related information. Please note that the second code does not contain the "ll" of the Spanish alphabet as does the first code. If accessable, sources should be contacted for code-check.

2.  In submitting the information the three DRE representatives requested to be interviewed jointly. Spokesman for the group was Adolfo BARRO Garcia. A fourth refugee, Rafael SANTANA Alvares, entered POPRINE with the DRE representatives.

a. Adolfo BARRO Garcia aka TITO DPOB - 30 Sep 1943, Quemado de Son Cuines, Las Villas. Subject was a student until April 1961. He is a member of the Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil (DRE) in Sagua la Grande, Las Villas and is the regional coordinator for the DRE in the area comprised of Corralillo, Rancho Veloz, Quemado de Cuines, Isabela de Sagua, Sitiesito, Sitio Grande, Cifuentes, Amaro, En Crusijada, Calabasete de Sagua. The DRE has approximately 1000 men in this area but they lack arms and other equipment. A sending and receiving set (radio) has been installed at Isabela de Sagua, Las Villas. Bernardo la MADRID aka FAUSTINO is the present coordinator in Sagua la Grande, Las Villas. The purpose of their trip to PBPRIME is to contact Manuel SALVAT in Miami, Florida. They plan to return to Cuba.

b. Fernandez FARCO Hernandez aka ADAT DPOB - 21 Aug 1943, Sagua la Grande, Las Villas.

c. Manuel Antonio ALZUGARAY Perez aka FLECTOR DPOB - 18 Jan 1943, Santa Clara, Las Villas.

---

14-00000

SECRET

d. Rafael SANTANA Alvares DPOB - 7 November 1932, Las Villas. Subject was a chauffeur (taxi-driver) and plans to be at 7750 Normandy Drive, Apt. 2, Miami, Florida, while in PUPRIME. He stated that he resided at Bermasa No. 210, Havana, Cuba. Though he was not a member of any clandestine group, he assisted the MRR group in Caibarien and just recently assisted others to leave the country. Subject and the aforementioned persons departed Cuba on board the Cuban BLANCA ESTRELLA owned by INRA but operated by Subject's brother Israel SANTANA Alvares, who dropped them at Anguila and returned to Cuba to bring others out that were supposed to meet them, but they missed their connections. Subject's group departed from Isabela de Sagua, Las Villas 24 January 1962 at approximately 2400 hours.

On 22 December 1961 a group of approximately twenty militiamen and men from the ORI were drinking in various bars and displaying the Communist flag. Anyone who appeared to be unsympathetic was beaten. They also went to the homes of some who were suspected of being anti-Castroites and would beat them also. They beat up approximately twenty persons. This took place in Caibarien, Las Villas. Subject was one of many arrested between 22 and 26 December. When they were taken to a restaurant across from the C-2 office, Subject managed to escape. The other three men that came with him on the boat managed to hide him until they made good their escape by boat. Subject lists the following as G-2 agents:

*   Antonio OBREGON Correa, Mayor of Caibarien, Las Villas
*   One TOYO (nickname) is the head of the C-2 in Caibarien
*   (fnu) VILJASON is the assistant to TOYO
*   Evaristo HERRERA, who also works on a boat transhipping sugar from Cayo Frances to Caibarien, Las Villas
*   Roberto Rojos aka ESPONJO
*   Luciano BETAJA, Juanito BETAJA and four other brothers
*   Guillermo SANTANA, Andres SANTANA, Lorenzo SANTANA

Subject further stated that Pedro MONTERO, Alejo MONTERO and Eduardo MONTERO are active members of the MRR group in Caibarien, Las Villas. Francisco ROBLE is the active coordinator for the MRR in this area. Andres and Guillermo GONZALEZ (fishermen) are informers for the C-2 in Caibarien. They will propose that they help Cubans get out of the country. When all preparations are set up, the fishermen inform on those wanting to leave. The same applies to Jose (Pepe) MIRO, Evelio GARCIA and Lado COMA, all of Caibarien, Las Villas. Subject also stated that the 381st and 382nd Battalion of militia are presently in Caibarien, Las Villas. Subject states he is willing to return to Cuba and work for the underground. (Source Comment: If this subject is to be used in any manner, please be reminded that he claims to have escaped from the C-2. He may be trying to infiltrate the groups here or he may be trying to find out how the DRE operates in the Las Villas zone.)

End of Message

---

14-00000

SECRET

DRE INTERNAL CODES

First Code they will use is the following:

*   Banda de 40 meters
*   7,500 kilocycles
*   Broadcast times 6:30 am or 8:30 pm Las Villas

Clave Leon

Agente - 13 (identified only as Elidio, radio technician).

The code name to be used when transmitting will be GUERRILLERO

|      |      |      |      |      |      |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| A  | ARADO 000-70 | DIA  | N  | LIBRE LOMA 90 | 000-23  |
| B  | LUNA 0023  | LUZ 00-14  | O  | SAPO  | CAIMAN  |
| C  | CARRO 123-9  | P  | 8-180 00-78  | Q  | GATO SILLON 51-3  |
| D  | COTORRA 109-18  | R  | 802-3  | S  |      |

CODE FOR NUMBERS:

|      |      |      |      |      |      |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| 1.  | 345-20  | 2.  | 893-104  | 3.  | CANON -00  |
| 4.  | 657-6  | 5.  | 00-2150  | 6.  | ALCATRAZ  |
| 7.  | SICLON  | 8.  | 2000-17  | 9.  | 56-00  |
| 0.  | 34-18  |      |      |      |      |

PUNTO ENTRE PALABRA Y PALABRA

Second Code to be used--they will use one code one day and the other the next.

*   Same band
*   Same frequency
*   Same time

Code's name "FUEGO" to indicate which code is being used.

Agente - 13 Las Villas

The same code name GUERRILLERO will be used when transmitting

|      |      |      |      |      |      |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| A.  | 124  | H.  | PALOMA  | O.  | PEZ  |
| B.  | CIELO  | I.  | 654  | P.  | 93.2  |
| C.  | LUNA-LLENA  | J.  | 39  | Q.  | 00-61  |
| D.  | CAIMAN  | S.  | 17-23  | R.  | 125  |
| E.  | 172  | L.  | 43-4  | V.  | 000-4  |
| F.  | BURRO  | M.  | 180-9  | Y.  | PIANO  |
| G.  | 840  | N.  | 14-63  | Z.  | CAIMAN  |

PUNTO ENTRE PALABRA Y PALABRA

---

14-00000

SECRET

Places that they can deliver arms and equipment or other materials:

CAYSAL - (ALACRAN)
ANGUILAS - (LUNA LLENA)
ROQUE KEY - (LOCOMOTORA)

Code for numbers:

|      |      |      |      |      |      |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| 1.  | TIBURON  | 2.  | 963  | 3.  | 1,500  |
| 4.  | 10,000  | 5.  | CANOT  | 6.  | JOSE  |
| 7.  | FIERRO  | 8.  | RATON  | 9.  | MOTOR  |
| 0.  | 21  |      |      |      |      |

Whenever making any phone calls they will use the following codes:

LLAMAR A SRA. MARGO SALADO A ISABELA DE SAGUA, LAS VILLAS DE PARTE DE JUAN ANTONIO ORTEGA EN MIAMI-AL HABLAR: RECUERDOS A NIÑOS Y PADRES.

ESTOY HABLANDO - GATO SAL

PINTANDO - ROQUE KEY

RECIBI CARTAS TAL DIA - PARA RECOJER
