14-0000

104-10107-10195,

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DANIEL FLORES

---

14-0000

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

OGC 75-4191
13 November 1975

Personal and Confidential

The Honorable Barnard F. Jennings
Senior Judge, Circuit Court for
Fairfax County
4000 Chain Bridge Road
Fairfax, Virginia 22030

Dear Judge Jennings:

An employee of this Agency who falls within that special category
of employees that members of my office have previously discussed with
you has been summoned for jury duty at Circuit Courtroom #6, Fairfax
County Courthouse, commencing 17 November 1975. It is my understanding
that you believe such employees should not serve on a jury.

The employee is identified by a copy of his jury summons returned
under separate cover and, as previously agreed, we ask that this letter
and the name of the employee not be joined together. Mr. Edmund Cohen
of my office will be pleased to explain the circumstances further if you
desire. He can be reached at the following number: 351-5648.

We appreciate your efforts on our behalf.

Sincerely,

John S. Warner
General Counsel

OGC: ECohen: aam

Distribution:

Original - Addressee (delivered by courier 11/13/75)

JURY DUTY
1 - EC signature file
1 - Chrono

NOTE: Per GMBreneman's call to Mrs. Chesby,
Judge Jenning's secretary, Mr. Daniel Flores
has been excused from jury duty. Sandy called
Mr. Flores with this message.

Alyce 11/14/75

---

14-0000

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
SUBJECT: (Optional)
Daniel Flores
Jury Summons

FROM:
Frank Stewart
OS/EAB
DATE
11/7/75

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)
1. OGC
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11. OS/EAB
4E 33
12.
13.
14.
15.

EXTENSION
NO.
7720
7007-
6-75-4073

RECEIVED
DATE
7 NOV 75
11/7/75

FORWARDED
OFFICER'S
INITIALS

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

To 1.
Request OGC action Re
attached.

FORM 610
3-62
USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL
INTERNAL
USE ONLY
UNCLASSIFIED

---

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

OUTSIDE ACTIVITY APPROVAL REQUEST

COMPLETE AND FORWARD ORIGINAL AND 2 COPIES TO EXTERNAL ACTIVITIES BRANCH
DATE 7 November 1975

TO: DIRECTOR OF SECURITY; ATTN: EXTERNAL ACTIVITIES BRANCH
THRU: (Staff, division or office head and security officer, where assigned)
Chief LA/COG
Chief L Security
FROM: Daniel Flores GS-12

COMPONENT ROOM NO. AND BLDG. PHONE
LA/COG 3D5325 7144

1. FULL DESCRIPTION OF OUTSIDE ACTIVITY FOR WHICH APPROVAL IS REQUESTED INCLUDING NAMES OF ORGANIZATIONS OR INDIVIDUALS
CONCERNED. DATES. LOCALE. ETC. (Refer to HR 10-7 before completing)

On 29 October 1975 I received a summons from the Circuit Court
of Fairfax County, Virginia to serve on jury duty beginning
17 November 1975 for two months.

I am presently under Department of State cover (nominal). Request
Guidance.

2. REMARKS BY REQUESTOR

IN ENGAGING IN THE REQUESTED ACTIVITY, I WILL MAKE NO REFERENCE TO OR DISCUSS
MY CIA ASSIGNMENTS OR DUTIES. I (WILL, WILL NOT) BE IDENTIFIED AS EMPLOYED BY CIA
FOR THE FOLLOWING REASONS:

SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING EMPLOYEE

3. COMMENTS AND CONCURRENCE OF STAFF, DIVISION OR OFFICE HEAD

CONCUR:

DATE 11/7/75

SIGNATURE OF OPERATING OFFICIAL

FOR COMPLETION BY EXTERNAL ACTIVITIES BRANCH AND RETURN OF ORIGINAL TO EMPLOYEE

DATE:

SECURITY APPROVAL HAS BEEN (GRANTED, DENIED)
FOR THE ACTIVITY CONTEMPLATED BY THIS REQUEST.

(FOR) CHIEF, SECURITY SUPPORT DIVISION

FORM 879
3-75
USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

---

14-0000

COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA

To an order of the Circuit Court of Fairfax County, Virginia, received on
October 20, 1975, YOU ARE HEREBY SUMMONED TO APPEAR for jury service for the
term beginning at 8:30 A.M. on the 17th day of November, 1975 in Circuit Courtroom
#6, 2nd floor, Fairfax County Courthouse, 4000 Chain Bridge Road, Fairfax, Va 22030.

If any questions you may have will be answered when you report on that date.
If an emergency precludes you from reporting as directed above, please call the Clerk of
Court's office at 691-2227 or 691-2228.

Any correspondence relating to this summons should be directed to the Chief Circuit Court Judge of
Fairfax County and not to the courthouse and be prepared
Please clock your mileage from your home to the
to provide to the Clerk of Court your roundtrip mileage for reimbursement purposes.

/s/
WARREN T. BURSON, SHERIFF
Cities of
Fairfax and Falls Church
