```
To: [10433-10167]

[2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

4/13/68

CODE
TELETYPE
URGENT

TO LEGAT SANTO DOMINGO
FROM DIRECTOR FBI

RE: MURKIN
ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

1 - Mr. Rosen
1 - Mr. G. C. Moore
1 - Mr. Griffith
1 - Mr. Atkinson

VIA TELETYPE
12320th
APR 11 1968
ENCIPHERED

REURTELS NUMBERS TWO AND FOUR DATED APRIL EIGHT LAST.
PERTINENT DATA IN RETELS WAS INCORPORATED INTO LEM AND
FURNISHED WHITE HOUSE, ATTORNEY GENERAL AND INTERESTED
GOVERNMENT AGENCIES BY LETTER APRIL TEN INSTANT.
IN VIEW OF NATURE AND ENORMITY OF ALLEGATIONS MADE BY
HERNAN HENRIQUEZ LORA CONCERNING THIS MATTER, LEGAT MUST ENDEAVOR
TO VERIFY OR DISPROVE SUCH ALLEGATIONS.

PHOTOGRAPH OF ONE HERNAN HENRIQUEZ LORA, ALSO KNOWN AS
HERNAN HENRIQUEZ URENA LORA, BORN OCTOBER TWENTY FOUR, FIFTEEN,
AT SAN DIEGO, CUBA, OR SANTIAGO DE CUBA, CUBA, BEING FORWARDED
SEPARATELY. REC-444-3826-1-498
BUREAU FILES REVEAL ABOVE INDIVIDUAL IS DOMINICAN CITIZEN
AND HIS PARENTS WERE MAX AND GUARINA HENRIQUEZ.

APR 12 1968

Foreign Liaison Unit (route through for
1 - 105-168197 (H. Rap Brown)
1 - 100-446080 (S. Carmichael)
054938 (Hernan Henriquez Lora)

MAIL ROOM
COM TEL

---

13-00000

TELETYPE TO LEGAT SANTO DOMINGO
RE: ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

THIS INFORMATION WAS CLASSIFIED "SECRET" BY CIA.
CIA ON AUGUST NINE, SIXTY SIX, ADVISED IT HAD NOT HAD ANY
OPERATIONAL INTEREST IN HERNAN HENRIQUEZ LORA
AND ITS FILES.
INDICATED HE HAS "VERY UNSAVORY REPUTATION."
ADDITIONAL PERTINENT INFORMATION CONCERNING HENRIQUEZ LORA
WILL BE FORWARDED BY AIRTEL.

NOTE:
Legat in retels reported Henriques Lora had
volunteered a third party had over heard a conversation in
Santo Domingo between two Dominican communists in which
it was alleged that Stokely Carmichael and H. Rap Brown
advocated the death of Martin Luther King and King's
assassination would benefit the cause of black violence.

---

13-00000

4/13/68

CODE
TELETYPE
URGENT

TO LEGAT SANTO DOMINGO
FROM DIRECTOR FBI

RE: ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.
MURKIN

1 - Mr. Rosen
1 - Mr. G. C. Moore
1 - Mr. Griffith
1 - Mr. Atkinson

VIA TELETYPE
12320th
APR 11 1968
ENCIPHERED

REURTELS NUMBERS TWO AND FOUR DATED APRIL EIGHT LAST.
PERTINENT DATA IN RETELS WAS INCORPORATED INTO LEM AND
FURNISHED WHITE HOUSE, ATTORNEY GENERAL AND INTERESTED
GOVERNMENT AGENCIES BY LETTER APRIL TEN INSTANT.
IN VIEW OF NATURE AND ENORMITY OF ALLEGATIONS MADE BY
HERNAN HENRIQUEZ LORA CONCERNING THIS MATTER, LEGAT MUST ENDEAVOR
TO VERIFY OR DISPROVE SUCH ALLEGATIONS.

PHOTOGRAPH OF ONE HERNAN HENRIQUEZ LORA, ALSO KNOWN AS
HERNAN HENRIQUEZ URENA LORA, BORN OCTOBER TWENTY FOUR, FIFTEEN,
AT SAN DIEGO, CUBA, OR SANTIAGO DE CUBA, CUBA, BEING FORWARDED
SEPARATELY. REC-444-3826-1-498
BUREAU FILES REVEAL ABOVE INDIVIDUAL IS DOMINICAN CITIZEN
AND HIS PARENTS WERE MAX AND GUARINA HENRIQUEZ.

APR 12 1968

CIA ON APRIL SEVENTEEN, SIXTY TWO, ADVISED ABOVE HENRIQUEZ
LORA WAS CITIZEN OF DOMINICAN REPUBLIC WHO HAD BEEN TRAVELING ON
CUBAN PASSPORT NUMBER ONE ONE TWO SEVEN DATED JANUARY TWENTY FIVE,
FIFTY NINE. IN ONE NINE SIX TWO HE RESIDED AT ANTONIO MAURA TEN

Foreign Liaison Unit (route through for
1 - 105-168197 (H. Rap Brown)
1 - 100-446080 (S. Carmichael)
054938 (Hernan Henriquez Lora)

MAIL ROOM
COM TEL

---

13-00000

TELETYPE TO LEGAT SANTO DOMINGO
RE: ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.
MADRID, SPAIN.
ACCORDING TO CIA, HE HAD BEEN INVOLVED IN BOTH
PRO-CASTRO AND ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES IN MADRID DURING PRECEDING
TWO YEARS AND WAS SUSPECTED OF BEING A MEMBER OF CUBAN G-TWO.
THIS INFORMATION WAS CLASSIFIED "SECRET" BY CIA.

CIA ON AUGUST NINE, SIXTY SIX, ADVISED IT HAD NOT HAD ANY
OPERATIONAL INTEREST IN HERNAN HENRIQUEZ LORA AND ITS FILES
INDICATED HE HAS "VERY UNSAVORY REPUTATION."
ADDITIONAL PERTINENT INFORMATION CONCERNING HENRIQUEZ LORA
WILL BE FORWARDED BY AIRTEL.

NOTE:
Legat in retels reported Henriques Lora had
volunteered a third party had over heard a conversation in
Santo Domingo between two Dominican communists in which
it was alleged that Stokely Carmichael and H. Rap Brown
advocated the death of Martin Luther King and King's
assassination would benefit the cause of black violence.

---

13-00000

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum

TO: Mr. D. J. Brennan, Jr.
FROM: S. J. Papich
DATE: April 17, 1968
SUBJECT: MURKIN

Richard Ober, Central Intelligence Agency (CIA),
furnished the following to the Liaison Agent on April 17, 1968:

A CIA source, characterized as being very reliable,
advised that on or about April 15, 1968, an individual identi-
fying himself as Gerald Lee Richards, a U. S. seaman, called
at the Tokyo, Japan, office of the National Maritime Union and
asked to be signed on a ship as soon as possible. (It should
be noted that reference is being made to the office of the U.S.
National Maritime Union.) He was asked to furnish his local
address in Tokyo, and he refused to do so. He became very
agitated and then left. So far he has not returned to the
aforementioned office. CIA's source stated that Richards
answers the general description of the suspect in the instant
case as reported in newspapers.

Richards volunteered information indicating that
he applied for seaman's papers in San Pedro, California, on
June 16, 1964, and that he registered as a member of the
National Maritime Union in San Pedro on February 21, 1968.
He has Social Security number 562-46-5078 and U. S. Coast
Guard identifying document Z2711-782. He was born April 8,
1937, in Missouri (town not given). CIA's source described
him as 5'10"; 155 pounds; brown hair, receding hairline on
both sides; a scar, not prominent, about two and one half
inches long across the center of his forehead. His most
outstanding characteristic was his grin, described as "dis-
concerting and resembling a grimace."

Ober advised that this same information has been
given to our Legat, Tokyo. CIA is charging through laudable
sources in Tokyo to establish the whereabouts of Richards.

If this lead washes out, CIA would like to be advised.

ACTION:
The above information is being directed to the
attention of the Civil Rights Section of the
General Investigative Division.

SJP:clb

Mr. McGowan (Long)
Liaison
Mr. Papich

---

13-00000

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum

TO: Mr. W. C. Sullivan
FROM: Mr. J. A. Sizoo
DATE: April 22, 1968
SUBJECT: MURKIN

At 6:35 pm 4/22/68, John Mapother, Clandestine Service,
Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), furnished the following
information to Night Supervisor James F. McGuire by telephone:

CIA sources in Panama have reported two American citizens
are being detained in Panama City, Panama, at the request of the
Costa Rican authorities. Allegedly, they are being detained in
connection with the assassination of Martin Luther King. These
individuals are identified as Tom Wolman, born 7/17/44 in New York.
Wolman has Passport Number J085474, issued 1/29/68, and his
permanent residence is shown as 30 Larrys Lane, Pleasantville,
New York. The other individual is identified as Douglas Harry
Hulbard, Passport Number 330926. Hulbard is described as a former
soldier who has returned to Panama to be married. CIA did not
have any further descriptive data regarding Hulbard.

These two individuals were traveling in a Chevrolet,
License Number 23GH19, Motor Number 13 387 13 113711. The vehicle
and license plates could not be further described by CIA. According
to CIA, Wolman's passport indicates he had entered and departed
El Salvador and Honduras on 4/17/68; Nicaragua on 4/18/68.

Mr. Mapother advised he has no indication why the Costa
Rican authorities have requested the detention of the above-
described individuals. Further, he does not know of any factual
connection of these individuals with the King case. He said CIA
sources were trying to develop this matter further. He also
advised that CIA would send the FBI a written communication
concerning this matter on 4/23/68.

At 9:10 pm 4/22/68, Norman Poulin, CIA, orally advised
that a check had been made with the Costa Rican authorities and
determined that Costa Rica has no information regarding the above-
mentioned individuals; that Costa Rica did not request Panamanian
authorities to hold these individuals, that they have no request
from any American authorities to detain them; and that they have no knowledge of any connection between these individuals and
the assassination of Martin Luther King. Poulin indicated that
the entire information may be a complete hoax; however, CIA will
advise FBI if any additional data comes to their attention.

ACTION:
The above information was orally furnished to Mr. Helgeson,
General Investigative Division.

JFM:chs (7)

Mr. Sullivan
Mr. Rosen
Mr. Helgeson

Mr. J.A.Sizoo
Mr. Papich
Mr. J.F.McGuire

APR 24 1968

---

13-00000

Memorandum to Mr. Sullivan
RE: MURKIN

the assassination of Martin Luther King.
indicated that
the entire information may be a complete hoax; however, CIA will
advise FBI if any additional data comes to their attention.

ACTION:
The above information was orally furnished to Mr. Helgeson,
General Investigative Division.

---

13-00000

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum

TO: Mr. W. C. Sullivan
FROM: J. A. Sizoo
DATE: 4/28/68
SUBJECT: MURKIN

Norman Pulin, Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), advised
this date that a German doctor, Klaus Steer, German Director,
Scientific Department, Africa, E. Merck Aktiengesellschaft,
Karmstady, Germany, had advised the American Embassy, Addis Ababa,
Ethiopia, that he believed he had seen an individual whom he
thought to be Eric Starvo Galt at the Bristol Hotel, Lagos,
Nigeria, on the afternoon of 4/23/68. Because he thought the
individual looked like Galt he made an effort to get some
information concerning him. He found he was registered at the
hotel as Joe Musgaque, Room 403, receipt number D52138,
account number 08325. The doctor did not know if Musgaque had
registered at the hotel as an American. In conversation with
Musgaque the doctor learned that Musgaque was employed by the
Wilder Oil Company (address unknown) and was en route to Warri
Oil Field, Nigeria.

Bufiles contain no references to Joe Musgaque or the
Wilder Oil Company.

Mr. Pulin, CIA, was advised that Bufiles contain no
references to Joe Musgaque or Wilder Oil Company.

ACTION:
None. For information. This is being referred to
the General Investigative Division.

JHK:brr (8)

Mr. Sullivan
Mr. Rosen
Mr. McGowan
Mr. McDonough
Mr. Kavanagh

Mr. Sizoo
Mr. G.C. Moore

REC-31-2461

---

13-00000

Airtel
4-29-68

TO: SAC, Washington Field
FROM: Director, FBI
SUBJECT: MURKIN

1 - Mr. Hudson

On 4-28-68, a representative of CIA advised the
Bureau that a German doctor, Klaus Steer, German Director,
Scientific Department, Africa, E. Merck Aktiengesellschaft,
Karmstady, Germany, had advised the American Embassy,
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, that he believed he had seen an
individual whom he thought to be Eric Starvo Galt at the
Bristol Hotel, Lagos Nigeria, on the afternoon of 4-23-68.
The individual was identified as Joe Musgaque, who is
reportedly an employee of the Wilder Oil Company (address
unknown).

Washington Field, check passport records for any
identifying data concerning Musgaque; and also attempt to
determine through the Department of State any information
concerning the Wilder Oil Company, which reportedly is
operating in Nigeria. If no information available in
State Department records regarding the Wilder Oil Company,
determine whether State Department can obtain this information
from the Nigerian Embassy.

Handle immediately.

1 - Memphis (info)

FJH:jlb

NOTE: See memorandum from J. A. Sizoo to W. C. Sullivan
dated 4-28-68, captioned "Murkin" JHK:brr.

APR 30 1968

---

13-00000

Mr. D. J. Brennan, Jr.
S. J. Papich
May 22, 1968

COMMUNIST PARTY OF COLOMBIA
INTERNAL SECURITY – COLOMBIA

ACTION:
This information will be checked out by the
Soviet Section for any significant indicators relating to
the movement of funds through Soviet intelligence channels.

This information and enclosure are also being
directed to the attention of the General Investigative Division
in the event we desire to check any identified currency utilized
by James Earl Ray against the attached listing.

Enclosure

SJP:clb

Mr. Branigan
Mr. Wannall
Mr. McGowan
Murkin File
Liaison
Mr. Papich

DEC 3 1968

---

13-00000

Mr. D. J. Brennan, Jr.
S. J. Papich
May 23, 1968

COMMUNIST PARTY OF COLOMBIA
INTERNAL SECURITY - COLOMBIA

The Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) previously
has furnished information concerning the arrest of two indi-
viduals in Colombia who clandestinely brought into the country
a large sum of U. S. currency slated to be delivered to the
Communist Party of Colombia.

On May 21, 1968, Thomas Karamessines, Deputy
Director of Plans, CIA, made available the enclosed list of
serial numbers of the currency recovered by Colombian officials.
It should be noted that the first digit in each listed number
designates the particular denomination (1-$1; 2-$5; 3-$10;
4-$20; 5-$50; 6-$100).

ACTION:
This information will be checked out by the
Soviet Section for any significant indicators relating to
the movement of funds through Soviet intelligence channels.

This information and enclosure are also being
directed to the attention of the General Investigative Division
in the event we desire to check any identified currency utilized
by James Earl Ray against the attached listing.

Enclosure

SJP:clb

Mr. Branigan
Mr. Wannall
Mr. McGowan
Murkin File
Liaison
Mr. Papich

DEC 3 1968

---

13-00000

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum

TO: Mr. E. S. Miller
FROM: W. A. Branigan
DATE: November 29, 1973
SUBJECT: COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE ASSASSINATIONS
MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING

On November 21, 1973, Mr. Raymond Rocca of the
Central Intelligence Agency personally delivered the attached
press release noting that the captioned committee was sponsoring
a two-day conference at Georgetown University on November 23 and
24 in commemoration of the Tenth Anniversary of President John F.
Kennedy's death. Mr. Rocca particularly noted that former
Special Agent William Turner was scheduled to be the moderator
of a panel dealing with unique investigative techniques. In the
program Turner is identified as a former FBI Agent, author of
numerous books on investigative techniques. Among others
appearing on the program are Fred Cook, Mark Lane, Harold Weisberg,
all of whom who have been outspoken critics of the FBI.

The Central Intelligence Agency, according to Mr. Rocca,
was concerned over the appearance of their ex-employees
Victor Marchetti and George O'Toole.

Mr. Rocca advised that his Agency would have coverage
of the conference and that he would be happy to pass along any
data developed by their coverage.

ACTION:
For information. Anything of pertinence received
from Mr. Rocca will be made a matter of record. A copy of this
memorandum has been designated for the personnel file of
ex-Agent Turner.

WAB:hke

Enclosure
Personnel File of William Turner
Mr. E. W. Walsh
Mr. E. S. Miller
Mr. W. A. Branigan

DEC 3 1973

---

13-00000

JOHN FENSTERWALD, JR.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE ASSASSINATIONS
1520 10th STREET, N. W.
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20006
(202) 232-1152

ROBERT SMITH
DIRECTOR OF RESEARCH
JAMES Z. COURSEL

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:

In observance of the tenth anniversary of President Kennedy's death,
the Committee to Investigate Assassinations is sponsoring a two-day
Conference at Georgetown University on November 23rd and 24th. A
brochure describing the Conference and its program is attached. As
you will note, several of the Nation's prominent writers and investi-
gators of the assassinations of the past decade will speak.

While a number of different points of view on the subject will be
represented, there is general consensus that the Executive Branch has
failed to make known all the relevant facts of the assassinations.

We believe that the Congress must ultimately take the initiative if
the public is to learn all of the facts, and that Watergate has shown
us that Congress' action depends largely on disclosures by an informed
press and other news media.

A press pass will be available for you at the Conference registration
desk. For further information, please contact:

Ms. Andrea Wyatt
Conference Coordinator
(202) 232-1152

---

13-00000

COME SHARE THE FINDINGS
OF THE NATION'S EXPERTS
AT A TWO DAY CONFERENCE

THE LAST THREE PRESIDENTIAL
ELECTIONS HAVE BEEN DECIDED BY
BULLETS:

1964 result decided by the assassination of
President John F. Kennedy
1968 result decided by the assassination of
Senator Robert F. Kennedy
1972 result decided by the near-assassination of
Governor George Wallace

SPONSORED BY THE COMMITTEE TO
INVESTIGATE ASSASSINATIONS

TO BE HELD AT:
GEORGETOWN
UNIVERSITY

DECADE OF
ASSASSINATIONS
1963 - 1973

GASTON HALL
Nov. 23-24, 1973

WHAT is the evidence?
WHO fired the fatal shots?
WHY has there been such a concerted effort
to withhold the facts?
WHO was really behind the assassinations?

COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE ASSASSINATIONS
1520 16th Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. (202) 232-1152

JOHN F. KENNEDY • SYLVANUS OLYMPIO
ABDUL KARIM KASSEM • MEDGAR EVERS
"NGO" DINH DIEM • JIGME DORJI • ADIB AL SHISHAKLI
PIERRE NGENDANDUMWE
HASSAN ALI MANSOUR • MALCOLM X • VIOL-
LIUZZO • MARIO MENDEZ MONTENEGRO
ABUBAKAR BALEWA • J.T.V. IRONSI • AGUINES
HENDRIK VERWOERD • TRAN VAN VAN
GEORGE LINCOLN ROCKWELL • CHE GUEVARA
MARTIN LUTHER KING • ROBERT F.
KENNEDY • EDUARDO MONDLANE
MBOYA • A.A. SHERMARKE
WALLACE • SALVADORE ALLENDE

---

13-00000

1963 - 1973
PROGRAM

FRIDAY - NOVEMBER 23

9:00 LATE REGISTRATION -
10:00 Early Registrants pick up passes.
10:00 WELCOME:
Mr. Bernard Fensterwald, Jr., Executive
Director, Committee to Investigate
Assassinations
Mr. Norman Mailer, Author and Forwarder
of The Fifth Estate

11:00 CURRENT STATUS OF PROMINENT
ASSASSINATION CASES:
JFK CASE - Mr. Robert P. Smith, Director
of Research, Committee to Investigate
Assassinations
RFK CASE - Mr. Robert Hanson, Attorney,
present counsel for Sirhan Sirhan
KING CASE - Mr. James Lesar, Attorney,
present counsel for James Earl Ray
WALLACE CASE - Mr. Romild Van Doren,
Newsman, Author, researcher into the
background of Arthur Bremer
ROCKWELL CASE - Ms. Meredith Rode,
Professor at Federal City College,
Authority in killing of George Lincoln
Rockwell

1:30 UNIQUE INVESTIGATIVE TECHNIQUES:
Mr. William Turner, Moderator - Former
FBI Agent, Author of numerous books
on investigative techniques
Mr. George O'Toole - Former CIA Agent,
Free-Lance Writer, expert on the PSE
(Psychological Stress Evaluator)
Mr. Robert Saltzman - Computer Engineer,
lecturer on the Warren Commission
Report

FRIDAY - Continued

12:30 BREAK FOR LUNCH

2:00 MEDICAL AND PHYSICAL EVIDENCE:
Mr. Josiah Thompson, Moderator -
Professor at Haverford College, author of
Six Seconds in Dallas
Dr. Cyril Wecht - Professor of Law and
Forensic Medicine at Duquesne
University; Coroner of Pittsburgh, Pa.
Ms. Sylvia Meagher - Attorney, UN Official,
author of Accessories After The Fact
Mr. Roger Hanson - Attorney, counsel to
Sirhan Sirhan
Mr. Herbert MacDonnell - Professor of
Criminalistics, Corning University; expert
in case of Fred Hampton
Mr. Mark Lane - Attorney, author of Rush
To Judgment and Executive Action

6:00 BREAK FOR DINNER

8:30 WARREN COMMISSION REPORT: FACT
OR FICTION
A slide show and lecture by Mr. Robert
Saltzman

SATURDAY - NOVEMBER 24

9:30 ASSASSINATIONS AND THE MEDIA:
Mr. John Henry Faulk, Moderator -
Humorist and Author of Fear On Trial
Mr. Robert Kaiser - Author of RFK Must
Die
Mr. Donald Freed - Co-Author of Executive
Action
Mr. Harold Weisberg - Author of Frame Up
Mr. Ted Charach - Author of Second Gun
Mr. Peter Noyes - Author of Legacy Of
Doubt
Mr. Fred Cook - Author of numerous books
and articles

12:30 BREAK FOR LUNCH

2:00 THEORIES OF CONSPIRACY:
Mr. Richard Sprague, Moderator -
Computer expert and author
Dr. Richard Popkin, Professor at Washington
University; author of The Second Oswald
Col. Fletcher Prouty - Former Liaison
Officer between Pentagon & CIA;
author of The Secret Team
Mr. Robert K. Brown - Former Special
Services Officer; expert in attempts on
life of Castro
Mr. Earl Golz - Reporter for Dallas Morning
News, expert on Organized Crime
Mr. Victor Marchetti - Former CIA Agent;
author
Mr. Peter Dale Scott - Professor at
Berkeley; Author of The War Conspiracy

5:00 INDIVIDUAL WORKSHOPS WITH THE
SPEAKERS -
Question and Answer Sessions

6:00 FINI

---

13-00000

BJ documents
Forwarded toia
for review
```