14-00000

ACTION

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
Action Required: FYI.

1. OPERATIONAL ACTIVITY

A. Preparations were underway in early November to dispatch AMTRUNK-13 to Madrid in mid-November to cement the recruitment of AKTRUNK-19. These plans fell through when the Madrid Station notified Headquarters and WAVE that their workload would not allow sufficient case officer time to handle AMTRUNK-13 in Madrid at this time. WAVE agreed to postpone AMTRUNK-13's trip to Madrid several weeks until Madrid Station's workload abated somewhat.

B. The prospects of finalizing the recruitment of ANTRUNK-19 increased however with the receipt at WAVE of another open letter from AMTRUNK-19, this one mailed from Mexico City in mid-November. In ANTRUNK-19's first letter, mailed from Montreal in mid-October, he suggested using a friend in Mexico City as a cut-out to initiate a channel of communications between himself and AMTRUNK-13. In his second letter, AMTRUNK-19 stated that he had made the necessary arrangements with his friend in Mexico. Although WAVE, Headquarters and MEXI traces on ANTRUNK-19's friend, IDEN A, were fragmentary, Mexico Station stated that IDEN A was well-known to one of its PBRUMEN assets who vouched for IDEN A's loyalties. WAVE intends to send an innocuous letter to AMTRUNK-19 in AMTRUNK-13's handwriting to keep the channel with A-19 alive. AMTRUNK-19 appears eager to see AMTRUNK-13 again and has stated in both letters that he has considerable information to discuss in detail. It is well realized that this open letter channel is far from ideal but it is hoped that in early January 1965 AMTRUNK-13 can re-contact AMTRUNK-19 and provide him with a system of S/W.

Attachment: USC
IDEN Sheet

Distribution:
3 - Addressee, w/att. USC

DATE TYPED
10 Dec 64
DATE DISPATCHED
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
UFGA-19045
HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER
19-6-84/3-1

---

14-00000

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
UFGA-19045

CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

as well as debrief him thoroughly and levy PI and MHAPRON requirements upon him.

C. In mid-November after the postponement of AMTRUNK-13's Madrid trip, preparations began to launch Operation AMTRUNK X in early December. This operation would attempt to re-organize the ratline to and from Havana and the ANTRUNK infil area for the future use of infiltrated MHAPRON recruiters and other agent assets as necessary. Secondary objectives are to bring into the infil area a cache of weapons and explosives for AMTRUNK-10/AMLASH-1 and to teach a system of S/W to one or more assets in the area. The team is to be composed of the same four individuals who participated in Operation AMTRUNK IX in October 1964: AMAGREE-1, Team Leader; AMAKA-1, Radio Operator; and AMTRUNK-16 and -20, Guides. It was decided to shelve the V-20 as the Intermediate Craft (IC) for this operation and substitute a 17' Johnson boat with twin 75 hp. outboard motors which could maneuver through shallower water and which could be more easily camouflaged. The basic reason for this decision was the fact that December through February are the low-water months in the AMTRUNK operational area. During this shallow water season, the heavier, wider V-20 can only be used in the deeper and more heavily-guarded infiltration canals.

D. Through the combined efforts of AMICE-14, the AMTRUNK P/A, and AMAGREE-1 and AMAKA-1, four radio operator candidates, to be trained for future use in PH operations, were recruited during the reporting period.

E. Recruiting for MHAPRON infiltration candidates continued during the reporting period. One prospective infiltree was recruited during the month of November and the case officer was active in assessing and debriefing two other candidates. It is hoped that by March 1965 one or more of these candidates will be trained and prepared for infiltration for clandestine MHAPRON recruiting. In large measure this will depend upon the success of Operation AMTRUNK X in re-organizing the ratline to and from Havana.

F. S/W Message No. 13 was sent to ANTRUNK-11 in response to his Message No. 15 in which he stated that both OWVL receivers were now in his possession. WAVE Message No. 13 to AMTRUNK-11 gave directions for the disposition of the OWVL receivers and the activation of OWVL contact with both AMTRUNK-11 and ANTBUNK-10.

2. INTELLIGENCE REPORTING
None

3. OPERATIONAL EXPENDITURES
Salaries:
ANICE-14 $400.00
AMAGREE-1 300.00
AMAKA-1 250.00
AMTRUNK-13 300.00
AMTRUNK-16 225.00
AMTRUNK-20 200.00
$1,675.00

Mileage (AMICE-14 and AMAGREE-1): $202.40
Household Expenses: 61.97

GRAND TOTAL--—~ $1,939.37

CLASSIFICATION | | PAGE NO.
FORM
5.60
USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

---

14-00000

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
UFGA-19045

CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

4. PROJECTED PLANS

Primary tasks to be accomplished are the mounting of Operation AMTRUNK X in early December, the dispatching of AMTRUNK-13 to Madrid to finalize the recruitment of AUTRUNK-19, and the staging of another contingent of MHAPRON recruiters for infiltration in March 1965.

CLASSIFICATION | PAGE NO.
FORM
5.60
USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

---

14-00000

SECRET

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT
TO UFGA-19045

IDEN Sheet
IDEN A
Dr. Francisco BORGES
M. Escobedo No. 692-16
Mexico 5, D. F.

SECRET
