```markdown
[104-10182-10004] [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS - STAFF MEMBERS

14-00000

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: WIROGUE
201-233477
VOL. II
INCLUSIVE DATES:
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:
ROOM:
DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE RECEIVED:
DATE RETURNED:
REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME): DAN HARDWAY
SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL: Dan Hardway

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

---

14-00000

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, OS/Alien Affairs Staff
ATTENTION: Mr. Pennington
SUBJECT: Extension of Time in for SOI Agent AEASPIC,
CI/OA No. C-73532.
REFERENCES: SR/DOB Memorandum 163, dated 12 March 1959.
SR/DOB Memorandum 1730, dated 1 September 1959.

1.  It is requested that an extension of time be arranged through your office to allow REDSOX agent AEASPIC, who entered this country (black) 20 April 1959, to remain in the United States until about 20 April 1961. It is not envisaged that Subject will be required to remain in the US throughout the entire period; however, such an extension will afford adequate time for implementation of operation AESENTINEL.

2.  Close supervision as regards personal and social contacts of AEASPIC will, of course, be continued by an SR/DOB staff officer, until such time as Subject re-enters training when his status will revert to that as outlined in Reference B (supervision by a staff officer on a 24-hour basis).

3.  Subject is available at the convenience of your office should his visits to Immigration and Naturalization Offices be deemed necessary to effect this arrangement.

4.  For any further information please contact Fred Kirkpatrick on Ext. 8331.

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - addressee
1 - 201 file
1 - SR/DOB chrono

MICHAEL RAE
Chief, SR/DOB

201-233477

---

14-00000

SECRET

March 1960

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Status Report

Safehouse Branch assisted SR/DOB Case Officer Fred Kirkpatrick in formulating cover under which AESENTINEL agent AEASPIC could function and thus be released from 24-hour custody. AEASPIC was documented under the name David Durward and was so registered by Alien Affairs Staff. AEASPIC carries a cover letter issued by Alien Affairs to this effect.

SR/DOB Case Officer Fred Kirkpatrick was documented (see below) under the name Fred K. Komer, a self-employed manufacturers representative, presently engaged, with David Durward, in adapting certain American automatic coin-operated vending machines to the French market, in particular in the Paris area. Mr. Durvard is serving as Mr. Komer's engineer/technical advisor.

This arrangement has to date worked entirely satisfactorily, and it is hoped will continue to function until about mid June, when aforementioned cover arrangement should be discontinued owing to resumption of operational training. For further information, please contact Fred Kirkpatrick on Ext. 8331.

1.  New York driver's license No. 3068221, Aug. 13, 1957 issued in the name of Fred Karl Komer, 290 Concord Dr., River Edge, N. J.

2.  Social Security No. 056-04-2165 issued in the name of Fred Karl Komer

3.  United States Fidelity and Guaranty Company, Balt., Md., issued in the name of Fred Karl Komer, 290 Concord Dr., River Edge, N.J.

---

14-00000

15 March 1960

Extension of time granted for AESENTINEL agent AEASPIC whereby subject may remain legally (Immigration/Naturalization cognizant) until 20 October 1960.

Information relayed to SR/DCB by Alien Affairs Staff representative Mr. Pennington.

FRED KIRKPATRICK, SR/DOB

201-233477

---

14-00000

DISPATCH

TO: Chief of Station, Rio de Janeiro
INFO: Chief of Base, Sao Paulo
FROM: Chief, WHD
SUBJECT: REDWOOD/ADACRE - Accommodation Address
ACTION REQUIRED: See below.
REFERENCES: SAOP-1036, 2 October 1959

DATE: 3 March 1960
(201-233477)

CHECK ONE:
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED BY QUALIFIED HQ DESK ONLY

In connection with paragraph 2 of reference, effective immediately it is requested that letters sent to Timothy K. Rancifer for insertion in the local mail system be sent instead to the following address:

True name of Lucian W. Fabsik
American Consulate General SP
APO 676, New York, New York

Distribution:
4 - Headquarters
2 - Rio de Janeiro
2 - files

STL

David C. Higby

---

14-00000

Translations of David's letters being done by WE/France Desk
Nick Letzou, WE/France
George Boublik, 1108 J (our contact re translations)
1100 J.

201-233477

---

14-00000

Accommodation Address for David:

David De Fanaskhet
c/o Jan Pilsudski
Caixa Postal 11734 (Lapa)
Sao Paulo, Brazil

Pseudo: The name and APO for (live).
Mahoney 169557-4
Murray 8191
1212 Barton Hall, WH/2B
Our contact w/ WH/2B re David's mail to and from Brazil
Paul Hagglo
Agency
AFO 676
New York, New York

New Accommodation Address for David: Eduardo Callo
Caixa Postal 11744 (Lapa)
San Paulo, Brasil

Paul A. Magalo
American Consulate General, SP
APO 676, c/o Postmaster
New York City, New York

201-233477

---

14-00000

Madame Colette HOMERIKI
30, rue Cabanis
PARIS 14°
FRANCE

Eduardo CALLO
Sao Paulo
Caixa postal 11744
BRASIL

201-233477

---

14-00000

Sao Paulo, le 29 fevereiro 1960

Ma Cocotte cherie,

Voici la deuxième lettre que je t'écris. D'ailleurs il n'est pas seulement à toi que j'ai envoyé des lettres, mais aussi à mon frère, au toubib et mon ex-belle soeur, et aussi aux gens proches que j'étais avant de vous quitter voici un an passé de colà trois mois environ. Je n'ai jamais recu aucune réponse à l'adresse que j'avais donnée ! J'espère que cette fois j'aurais plus de chance car il doit y avoir certainement une raison quelque-part. Comme c'est la mode ces temps-ci, soit l'avion qui portait mes lettres s'est écrasé quelque-part, soit celui qui rapportait les réponses a fait de même, ou en vérité il n'y a jamais eu de réponses pour une raison qui m'échappe. Il est possible aussi que le pays ou même on les envois s'est écrasé, parait que chez les Jivaros ils aiment de temps à autre se vouloir se payer une bouteille d'Airwick que d'y mettre le nes.

Je suis revenu seulement hier d'une promenade de dous mois dans le nord du pays. C'est plein de serpents et de possilier. Parmis les bresiliennes il y en a de vraiment chouettes et de moins chouettes (aussi. Il faut y gouter pour comprendre. Je parle évidemment des brezilienne des grandes villes, parce que quand on quitte la ville, ca fait plutôt Vesinet ea on aurait ce

Il fait un pou chaud ss temps-ci, c'est l'ôté pour cot hemisphere, et quand il pleut c'est de la vapeur qui vous descend sur le dos, mais avec un bon ventilateur, une douche froide et des boissons glacées, on arrive à ne pas fondre completement. Je n'ai rien à faire en France, mais tu sais bien ma Cocotte que je pense toujours à vous, où que je me trouve, aussi mon idée est-elle de faire un saut pour vous y voir,més no serait-ce qu'ian instant,dana que cela me sera possible.

Que s'est-il passe chos vous depuis mon depart. Annik a du retrouver Titi, madame Bebert Monestier a certainement demena-gee. Nelly se met-elle toujours les doigts dans le nes? Membo ronchonne t'elle toujours. Et toi que fais-tu? Jeai oublié le nom du chien noir..ab out, Opi lo pisseur.

Et bien voilà, maintenant nous allons parlor serieusement penso que cotto lettre va t'apporter de bonnes nouvelles, mais ne le ferais que si je suis certain d'avoir une reponse. Quand je l'aurai Je t'enverral de l'argent d'abord pour te depanner et en suite parceque je vous aime, toi et les tiens Dès que locontast sera retabli je vous feral parvenir ou te feral parvenir tous les mois de quoi vous aider substantiellement et peut-stre plus.

Ce que je te demands on echange c'est:

10 d'envoyer aux personnes que j'ai eitdes plus haut, juste un petit mot pour donner mon nom et ma nouvello adresse exacte-Bent comme celle-ci. Ni plus ni molas

20 de demander Annick, Hina ot'd Holly de m'ecrire al elle le veulent bien, cotte lettre etant aussi pour chacune d'elles et alles doivent certainement savoir combien cela me ferait plai-air.

Batro temps les jours passerent et je viendrat vous voir, probablement on novembre ou en decembre.el jo ne se ca pen la gueule en route, les pierres sont un peu pointues sur le ene min oh je auta. Alors vous passaral beau, beanasup,tol Home Anniak, Hics, static Nelly.

---

14-00000

Eduardo CALLO
Coixa rental 11724 (Lepa)
Sao Paulo
Brasil

---

Dearest,

Here is the second letter that I'm writing you. As you know, it's not only to you that I sent letters but also to my brother, to the doctor, and to my former sister-in-law, and also to the people with whom I stayed before leaving you a year ago bout I wrote from here as soon as I could, that is, three months from that time. I never received any reply at the address I gave? I hope that this time I will have become luckier for there must certainly be some reason somewhere. As frequently happens these days, either the plane which was carrying my letters had an accident somewhereas or the one which was bringing back the answers did the same thing (i.e. had an accident), or, morning truth, there never was an answer for some reason that escapes me. It is possible also that the mail went up in smoke. The givaros like to start fires from time to time.

I told you lots of interesting things about the countries that I've had a chance to visit, having been almost everywhere, but, since I don't like to repeat the same things riveral timic, you will find out nothing if I do not get an answer to this lettertoo.

I just returned yesterday from a two month trip to the north of the country. It's full of snakes and Brazilian women. Among the Brazilian women there are really cute ones and less cute also. You have to taste them to understand. Evidently, I'm speaking of the Brazilian women of the large cities, because when one leaves the city its more like Vesinet and one's reaction would be to buy a bottle of Airwick rather than stick his nose there.

It's been rather hot lately. this hemisphere, and when it rains the steam goes down your back. But with a good fan, a cold shower, and iced drinks, one manages not to ment compectely.

Pere nothing to do in France, but you can be Honey that I'm always thinking of you wherever I may be. Therefore, my intention is to take a short trip to see you, even if only for a moment, as soon as this is possible.

What's happened among you since my departure. Annik must have found Titi again, Madame Bebert Monestier ha: surely moved out. Does Nelly still put her fingers in his nose? Does menice still gremble? And you, what are you doing? I forgot the name of the black dog och.. yas, Opi the pisses.

Well, now we are going to speak seriously and I think this litter is going to bring you good news, but I will not de se unless I'm sure of an answer. When I get one, I will send you some monegate tidi you over and them because I love you, you and yours. How Once contact is reestablished I will send you (plural) or rather I will send you (singular) every month enough to help you substantially and perhaps more. What I ask in exchange is:

1) to send to the people I've mentioned above, just a little note giving my name and my new address exactly like this one. Weither more nor less.

2) to ask Annick, Nince, and Hilly to write if they will, this letters being alse for each of them; and they must surely know how happy this will make me.

In the meantime the days will pass and I will come to see you, probably in November as unless I kill myself on the way, the rock are rather sharp the road I'm taking. Then I kiss you very very much, you, Annick, Mina, and my little Melly.

(signed: Edward)

---

14-00000

VIA AIR MAIL

Mr. Robert P. Hache
P. O. Box 8028
South West Station
Washington 24, D. C.
U. S. A.

27 Oct 1959.

Dear Bob

Received your first letter today.
Will take care of the matter. Enclosed
find some envelopes which I think are
very colorful and might be an addition
to your collection.

Paul

---

14-00000

Dear Paul,

25 Feb 60

Enclosed is one letter from David informing all concerned of change post office box to: Eduardo Callo, Caixa Postal 11744 (Lapa) Sao Paulo, Brasil. It is dated 29 February, so please forward just after that date. Thanks very much for you help.

Sincerely,

(this letter forwarded to Brasil for remailing 25 Feb. 1960 at 1300 hours).

201-233477

---

Office Memorandum

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

DATE: 11 February 1960
FROM: Special Contracting Officer
SUBJECT: Beneficiary, designation of
Mr. David TZITZICHVILI

1.  In accordance with the terms of my current affiliation with the United States Government, it is my understanding that in addition to monthly salary, bonus and other benefits, I am entitled to five thousand dollars in ($5,000.) death benefits payable to a designated beneficiary, providing my death occurs during the performance of my mission or as a direct result thereof.

2.  I therefore designate the following person as beneficiary to receive the sum of five thousand dollars ($5,000.):

Colette HOMERIKI
30 Rue Cabanis
Paris 14, France

Relationship: Friend

David Tzitzichvili

201-233477

---

14-00000

M. MCHENRY
MANAGER

THE CHESAPEAKE AND POTOMAC TELEPHONE COMPANY
930 H STREET. NORTHWEST
WASHINGTON 1. D. C.

February 10, 1960

TELEPHONE
METROPOLITAN 7-9900

Mr. David Durvard
1164 19th Street,
Washington, D.C.

Dear Mr. Durvard:

In order to provide adequate telephone service in your vicinity, it has become necessary for us to make certain rearrangements of telephone equipment. These rearrangements will result in some changes of subscribers' telephone numbers.

We sincerely regret that your telephone is among those affected.

The change will take place during April, 1960, and your new telephone number will be Federal 8-1263. Before the change one of our representatives will call on you and place a cover card on your telephone.

Dove's new Office # is Federal 8-1263
Apt. # is not Changing

At your request, of course, your telephone number does not appear in the Directory. However, to cause you minimum inconvenience, we will refer all of your calls from the old number to the new number for a reasonable period of time. If you should not receive satisfactory service, please call our Business Office.

Thank you for your understanding and cooperation.

Cordially,

J. M. McHenry
Manager

201-233477

---

The cover address of the establishment for David's employment:

Fred K. Komer (employer)
290 Concord Drive
River Edge, New Jersey

---

DATE: 22 JAN 62
TO: DIRECTOR
FROM: SAO PAULO
INFO: CI, CI/OPS, FI, WH 4, S/C 2
SUBJECT: REDWOOD AEACRE

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
ROUTING:
ACTION: SR 6
REC: 23
SECT: ROUTINE
PRIORITY: OPERATIONAL
CITE: SAOP 1120
REF: HBPW 2021

1.  BASE WOULD LIKE TO GIVE UP POST OFFICE BOX 11734 NOT LATER THAN 15 FEB.

2.  INSTRUCT AGENT SOONEST TO USE FOLLOW ADDRESS IN FUTURE: ANY NAME, CAIXA (ALSO RVCD CAXXA) POSTAL 11744 (LAPA) SAO PAULO BRAZIL.

END OF MESSAGE

25 JAN 1960

201-233477
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

---

MEMORANDUM FOR: SR/DCB Finance Office
SUBJECT: Request for Operational Advance

18 January 1960

Safehouse Branch/OL has requested the remaining four months rent in advance for the living quarters of AESENTINEL agent AFASPIC. Under the stipulations of the agreement with the agent, this rent is to be paid by AEASPIC. The terms of the lease specify $147.50 a month payable on the 1st day of the month. The lease began 1 November 1959, and will run until 30 June 1960, a period of eight months. The first four months rent ($590.00 for November thru February) have been paid from money credited to AFASPIC.

Fred Kirkpatrick, SR/DOB Case Officer will draw an advance from SR/DB Finance of $590.00 for the four remaining months rent. This sum will be deducted from AEASPIC's monthly salary (i.e. $147.50 a month for the period March thru June 1960).

APPROVED:
Chief, SH/DOB

FRED KIRKPATRICK

---

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, SR/DCB
ATTENTION: Alien Affairs Staff
SUBJECT: Personal Status of SDC3 Agent
AEASPIC (David DURVARD)

14 January 1960

Please be advised that SR/DCB Agent, AEASPIC, is being closely supervised by SR/DCB as regards his personal and social contacts.

2.  He is at present residing in a Washington, D.C. apartment under the name David Durvard. This apartment was obtained by Safehouse Branch and fully approved and checked by the Office of Security.

3.  Safehouse Branch has also obtained an office some five blocks from his living quarters. This office site has also been approved and checked by the Office of Security. AEASPIC is at present engaged in his office, doing unclassified work to keep him occupied. He is being visited, by an SR/DOB Case Officer, in a regular weekly basis (and/or as the necessity arises).

MICHAEL RAE
Chief, SR/DCB

FK/vat

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee
1 - Subj's. File
1 - Chrono

201-233477

---

14-00000

MEMORANDUM FOR: Office of Communications
SUBJECT: Evaluation of Code of SR/DOB REDSOX Agent

December 1959

It is requested that the attached encoded message and the code which it represents be evaluated.

The code represents the attempt of a REDSOX agent to formulate a worthwhile method of cryptography. It is therefore assumed that this message will prove of some interest to the Office of Communications.

Message:

The following details are furnished concerning the encoded message:

1.  The message will be in the English language.

2.  The key to the code is contained in the text of the encoded message.

3.  It would be appreciated if a cryptographer or other representative of your office could interview subject agent, provided his code indicates he has an aptitude for this work.

4.  For further information, please contact Mr. Fred Kirkpatrick on Ext. 8331.

MICHAEL RAE
Chief, SR/DOB

Att: message
PC/gc

Distrib:
O & 1 - add. w/1 copy of att.
1 - SR/DOB w/o *
1 - SR/DOB chrono

---

14-00000

November 1959

ATTN: Chief, SR/DOB
SUBJECT: Safehouse No. 297 Req. 59-23 - CCD SH-143
TO: Chief, Safehouse Branch/OL
Mr. Edward H. Sanner, Jr.
SSD #206920
FROM:
Requisition: Your request for domestic safehouse (Req. 59-23) routed to us via the Central Cover Division (CCD SH-143) has been met by the property and in the manner herein described. Said property to be utilized per requirements set forth in the requisition has been approved by the Office of Security (SSD 206920).

Property: A furnished efficiency apartment located at 940 25th Street, N. W. Apt. 202, Washington, D. C.

Lessor: John Safer,
Lessee: Mr. Powell Browning, Jr., a Security-cleared attorney-at-law with offices located at 3145 R. Street, N. W., Washington, D. C. office Telephone FE 3-5081.

By virtue of a Memorandum of Agreement, exclusive rights of tenancy has been assigned to the Agency. Accordingly, Mr. Browning is the nominal lessee while indirectly the Agency is the actual lessee and responsible for full and strict compliance with the terms of the lease. Questions or problems involving relationships of the lessee cut-out and the lessor, neighbors, police, et al will be handled through the lessee cut-out (Mr. Browning) acting under the control and direction of the Safehouse Branch.

Lease: Original lease is on file in the Safehouse Branch. Terms of the lease are $147.50 per month payable on the 1st day of the month. The lease begins 1 November and runs until 30 June 1960, a period of 8 months.

Cover Story: Mr. Powell Browning, the lessee cut-out, has ostensibly leased the apartment in order to assist a foreign client to obtain housing because of the mans language difficulty and in his inability to comprehend the provisions of a lease. Mr. Browning has therefore signed the lease in the clients behalf.

Case Officer: Mr. Edward H. Sanner, Jr., Ext. 8331.

Financial Arrangements: Rent, utilities, and service will be paid by the lessee cut-out, Mr. Browning. Any unusual or abnormal matters properly belonging or chargeable to the lessee should be taken up with and approved by the Safehouse Branch.

Pursuant to the stipulations of R 45-1025, the financial commitments of the lease were approved by the Chief, Real Estate & Construction Division/OL. In compliance with arrangements made between the Comptroller and the Director of Logistics we have advised the former regarding this acquisition.

HALTOR C. CARROLL

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - Addressee
1 - CCD/NC
1 - SSD/OS & File 297

---

14-00000

David DURVARD
ENGINEER TECHNICAL ADVISOR
POTOMAC HOUSE
940 25TH ST, N. W.
WASHINGTON DC.

Federal 8-1263
on 16 December 1959
FEDERAL 8-3077

---

14-00000

1.  Chief of Base, Sao Paulo
2.  COS, Rio de Janeiro
3.  WH
4.  WH Mailroom
5.  RI
6.  SR/IO Attn: Lois Ogle
7.  SR/DOB
8.  Chrono

GEORGE F. LIPSIUS

201-233477

---

MEMORANDUM FOR: Contract Personnel Division
SUBJECT: VIROGUE/1 Contract (Formerly AEASPIC)

Effective date:
Termination:
Compensation:
Housing:
Medical:
Insurance:
Bonus:
Termination:

Effective date:
Termination:
Compensation:
Housing:
Medical:
Insurance:
Bonus:
Termination:

1.  VIROGUE/1 file shows the following:
    a.  Effective date:
    b.  Termination:
    c.  Compensation:
    d.  Housing:
    e.  Medical:
    f.  Insurance:
    g.  Bonus:
    h.  Termination:

2.  This contract will have to be prepared for signing prior to 18 November 1960.

3.  For further information, please contact Mr. Daniel R. Hiesciur, X8284.

(Signed) Glenn D. Fields
Glenn D. Fields
Acting Chief, Africa Division

201-233477

---

SECRET

CERTIFICATE

November 1959

This is to certify that I, David TZITZICHVILI, fully understand, and agree to abide by, all provisions concerning the change in my personal status and release from 24-hour custody as explained to me this date.

Primary restrictions are as follow:

*   The use only of David DURVARD identity.
*   Travel restrictions limited to Washington D.C. area
*   Obtaining or attempting to obtain a driver's permit
*   Purchase, directly or indirectly, of an automobile
*   Obtaining or using any charge or credit purchase plan
*   Room-mates (Not to include visitors)
*   Any illegal activity

I fully understand that the provisions of my current contract with the United States Government and the provisions of the Secrecy Agreement which I have signed are both still applicable, and will remain so during the period 6 November 1959 to 1 July 1960 or until cancelled by the United States Government.

I further understand that any violation of the instructions which I have received, either verbal or written, will be just cause for the termination of my contract and such further action as may be deemed appropriate by my superiors.

David Tzitzichvili

WITNESS:

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
NAME: Michael Rae
TITLE: Chief, SR/DCB

201-233477

---

FROM: Chief of Base, São Paulo
TO: Chief of Station, Rio de Janeiro
INFO: Chief, SR
SUBJECT: REDWOOD/ARACRE - Servicing accommodation address
ACTION REQUIRED: See Paragraph 2 below
REFERENCES:
a. DIR 45223, 21 September 1959
b. HBPA-3747, 12 October 1959

As outlined in reference a, the postal address requested for use by an individual servicing accommodation address is referred to in reference b. To date he has written three letters giving this as his return address. Subject has indicated he does not anticipate voluminous correspondence; however such answers as he does receive will be serviced through this address. Therefore, it is requested the address be serviced as soon as is conveniently possible and at least on a weekly basis beginning with the week of 11 October 1959.

Distributions:
1 - COB, Sao Paulo
1 - COS, Rio de Janeiro
2 - WH
1 - WH Mailroom
1 - RI
1 - SR/IO Attn: Lois Ogle
2 - SR/DCB
1 - Chrono

GEORGE F. LIPSIUS

201-233477

---

MEMORANDUM FOR: Contract Personnel Division
SUBJECT: VIROGUE/1 Contract (Formerly AEASPIC)

1.  VIROGUE/1 file shows the following:
    a.  Effective date:
    b.  Termination:
    c.  Compensation:
    d.  Housing:
    e.  Medical:
    f.  Insurance:
    g.  Bonus:
    h.  Termination:

2.  This contract will have to be prepared for signing prior to 18 November 1960.

3.  For further information, please contact Mr. Daniel R. Hiesciur, X8284.

(Signed) Glenn D. Fields
Glenn D. Fields
Acting Chief, Africa Division

201-233477

---

