104-10007-10345
(2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992)

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: Warren Commission Testimony - Selected Excerpts Document Number 988-927 BD

SECRET

FROM: Chief, CI/R&A

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)
1. Chief, AF 7 C 32
2. Chief, EE 3 D 3107
3. Chief, FE 5 D 3107
4. Chief, NE 6 D 3107
5. Chief, WE 4 B 4405
6. Chief, WH 3 B 4403
7. DDP 3 C 2016
8. CI/R&A 2 C 17

EXTENSION: 7468
DATE: 23 Dec. 1964

DATE RECEIVED: 24 Dec. 1964
DATE FORWARDED: 24 Dec. 1964

OFFICER'S INITIALS: JW.
30 DEC 1964
30 Dec
31 DEC 1964
29 JAN 1965
24 December 1964
Feb 65

COMMENTS:
For Coordination
DEFERRED
RID PROCESSING SOR
PLEASE INDICATE HA
[ ] Retain in 1
Indees
[ ] Destro
Integrated ins
1. Records
Required.
If Retention of
Desk Working
This Box H
NOTE: This Document
Hot Be
s the
‘Anside
of the CS Recus Syston Dali the
Desired Hanching Churid Gove
and the Document Rete ID.
For Signature and Release
BY HAD
PLEASE CALL
Dadin
X6623
E
13. R
G156
BI
WFA
For Printing 20
2
1248
14.
BUTTRACT
15.
RID

for FOIA Review on SEP 1976

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES
FYI
PROCESSING
ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED
HEADQUARTERS DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
ABSTRACT
MICROFILM
ACCOMPLISHED

1. The Warren Commission's Report on the assassination of President Kennedy focused attention on the magnitude of the problem involved in the protection of the Chief Executive. As you know, it is our responsibility, overseas and in headquarters, to render every support possible to the Secret Service in the conduct of its statutory responsibilities in the United States, and especially when the President travels abroad.

2. The circumstances confronting the Warren Commission produced discussion and testimony on various aspects of the problem of Presidential protection and on interagency operational cooperation, which normally do not find their way into the public domain. These include the acquisition and dissemination of information, consultation, coordination, and operational interchanges. I believe you will be interested in the attached extracts of testimony given before the Warren Commission by U.S. intelligence and security officials. Pertinent portions have been side lined. I commend these materials for reading by all officers in positions of senior responsibility in headquarters and overseas.

Document Number 988-927BD.
FLETCHER M. KNIGHT

DATE TYPED: 23 Dec. 1964
DATE DISPATCHED: 2 FEB 1965
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: Book Dispatch No. 4726
HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER: 100-300-12

ORIGINATING OFFICE: CI/R&A
OFFICER: Raymond G. Rocca
TYPIST: gwh

ROUTING OFFICER'S NAME: RIDVAN
COORDINATING OFFICE SYMBOL: E/R+A.
RELEASING OFFICER'S SIGNATURE: Michard

HQ COPY DISPATCH

Distribution For
Book Dispatch No. 4726

AF Division
Abidjan
Accra
Addis Ababa
Algiers
Bamako
Brazzaville
Bujumbura
Conakry
Dakar
Dar-es-Salaam
Freetown
Kampala
Khartoum
Lagos
Leopoldville
Lome
Lusaka
Mogadiscio
Monrovia
Nairobi
Pretoria
Rabat
Salisbury
Tananarive
Tripoli
Tunis
Yaounde

The above listing has been reviewed in the AF Division.

(Initials)

EE Division
Athens
Bern
Frankfurt
Nicosia
Vienna

The above listing has been reviewed in the EE Division.

(Initials)

FE Division
Bangkok
Djakarta
Hong Kong
Honolulu
Kuala Lumpur
Manila
Melbourne
Okinawa
Rangoon
Saigon
Seoul
Taipei
Tokyo
Vientiane
Wellington

The above listing has been reviewed in the FE Division.

(Initials)

NE Division
Aden
Ammani
Ankara
Baghdad
Beirut
Cairo
Colombo
Damascus
Jidda
Kabul
Karachi
Kathmandu
Kuwait
New Delhi
Tehran

The above listing has been reviewed in the NE Division.

(Initials)

Distribution For
Book Dispatch No. 4726

WE Division
Brussels
Copenhagen
The Hague
Helsinki
Lisbon
London
Luxembourg
Madrid
Oslo
Ottawa
Paris
Paris/LCPIPIT
Reykjavik
Rome
Stockholm

The above listing has been reviewed in the WE Division.

(Initials)

Distribution For
Book Dispatch No. 4726

WH Division
Asuncion
Bogota
Buenos Aires
Caracas
Georgetown
Guatemala City
Kingston
La Paz
Lima
Managua
Mexico City
Montevideo
Panama City
Paramaribo
Port-au-Prince
Port of Spain
Quito
Rio de Janeiro
San Jose
San Salvador
Santiago
Santo Domingo
Tegucigalpa

The above listing has been reviewed in the WH Division.

(Initials)

Headquarters Distribution for
Book Dispatch No. 4726

DDP 2
ADDP 1
C/OPSER 1
C/TSD 1
C/CA 1
C/CCS 1
C/SOD 1
C/CI 1
C/FI 2

C/AF 1
C/AF/1 1
C/AF/2 1
C/AF/3 1
C/AF/4 1
C/AF/5 1
C/AF/6 1

C/EE 1
C/EE/G 2
C/EE/K 1
C/EE/SA 1

C/FE 2
C/FE/CH 1
C/FE/HULA 1
C/FE/JKO 1
C/FE/PMI 1
C/FE/TBL 1
C/FE/VNC 1

C/NE 1
C/NE/1 1
DC/NE/AA
C/NE/4 1
C/NE/5 1
C/NE/6

C/WE 1
C/WE/1 1
C/WE/2 1
C/WE/3 1
C/WE/4 1
C/WE/5 1
C/WE/BC

C/WH 1
C/WH/1 1
C/WH/2 1
C/WH/3 1
C/WH/4
C/WH/5
WH/COPS 1
WH/POA 1
WH/POB 1
WH/Plans 2

CI/R&A 1
CI/LIA 1
CI/OPS/AF 1
CI/OPS/EE 1
CI/OPS/FE 1
CI/OPS/NE 1
CI/OPS/SS 1
CI/OPS/WE 1
CI/OPS/WH 1

RID 2

Originated by: Chief, CI/R&A, Ext. 7468/23 December 1964
