```markdown
Tfroa-10332-10074 [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

SUMMARY OF AUGUST 1996 REVIEW BOARD ACTIONS ON
SECURITY CLASSIFIED HSCA TESTIMONY OF
JOHN SCELSO
(180-10131-10330)

| Page; line | Board Action | Modification detail | Date/Sub.Lang. |
|---|---|---|---|
| 19; 9, 11, 22 | Review | 05/1997, "CIA Employee." |  |
| 52; 5-6 | Protect | Protect first four words of line 5; release rest of line. | 10/2017, "Operational Details." |
| 52; 11 | Release | (see release on p.141) |  |
| 52; 21 & 23 | Release & Release |  |  |
| 53; 6 | Release |  |  |
| 55; 25 | Protect |  |  |
| 56; 4-7 | Modify | Release line 4; protect all of line 5; release lines 6 & 7 | 10/2017, "Describes technical operation." |
| 56; 19-23 | Modify | Postpone from 4th word in line 19 through the third word in line 21; release rest of lines 21-23 | 10/2017, "Describes intelligence operation in Mexico City." |
| 56; 25 | Protect |  | 10/2017, "Describes intelligence operation in Mexico City." |
| 57; 2 | Protect |  | 10/2017, "Describes technical operation." |
| 57; 4-7 | Protect |  | 10/2017, "Describes individuals." |

---

13-00000

| Page; line | Board Action | Modification detail | Date/Sub.Lang. |
|---|---|---|---|
| 57; 10-11 | Modify | Release line 10, postpone 1st, 2nd, and 4th - 6th words on line 11. | 10/2017, "Describes intelligence operations." "Describes a group of people." |
| 57; 14 | Release |  |  |
| 57; 17-19 | Protect |  | 10/2017, "Describes technical operation." |
| 57; 20-23 | Modify | Protect last three words on line 20; release lines 21-23. | 10/2017, "Describes intelligence operation." |
| 57; 24 | Protect |  | 10/2017, "Describes intelligence operation." |
| 58; 2-3 | Protect |  | Release 2017, "Describes intelligence operation." |
| 64; 18-21 & 22 | Release |  |  |
| 68; 13 | Protect | Scelso language and identifier. |  |
| 83; 14-15 | Protect |  | 10/2017, "Describes individual." |
| 83; 18 | Protect |  | Release date 08/2006; "Crypt." |
| 83; 22-23 | Protect |  | 10/2017, "Describes meeting." |
| 83; 25 |  | Release 2017, "No suitable substitute language" |  |
| 84; 1-2 |  | Release 2017, "No suitable substitute language" |  |

---

13-00000

| Page; line | Board Action | Modification detail | Date/Sub.Lang. |
|---|---|---|---|
| 84; 7-11 | Protect |  | Release 2017, "No suitable substitute language" |
| 84; 13-14 |  |  |  |
| 84; 17 | Protect |  | 10/2017, "No suitable substitute language." |
| 84; 19 | Protect |  | 10/2017, "Describes technical operation." |
| 85; 10 | Protect |  | Release date 08/2006. "crypt" |
| 85; 19 | Protect |  | "crypt" |
| 86; 12 | Protect |  | Release date 08/2006. |
| 86; 15 | Protect |  | 10/2017. "describes personnel" |
| 87; 8 | Protect | Scelso language and date. |  |
| 91; 6-7 | Protect |  | Release date 08/2006. "description." |
| 106; 11 | Protect |  | Release date 08/2006. "crypt" |
| 140; 20 | Release |  |  |
| 140; 23 | Protect |  | Release date 08/2006, "Operational Detail" |
| 141; 5-6 | Release |  |  |
| 141; 9 | Protect |  | Release 2017, "CIA Installation in Western Hemisphere 17" |

---

13-00000

| Page; line | Board Action | Modification detail | Date/Sub.Lang. |
|---|---|---|---|
| 181; 13 | Protect | Scelso date. Sub.lang. "location". |  |
| 185; 10-11 | Release |  |  |
| 185; 20 | Release |  |  |
| 185; 22-24 | Release |  |  |
| notes/index: p. 1 | Review | 05/1997 "CIA Employee." |  |
|  |  | CIA team disk 8\ scel_act.wpd |  |

---

13-00000
SECRET
27 September 1996

MEMORANDUM FOR: Executive Director
Assassination Records Review Board

FROM: John F. Pereira
Central Intelligence Agency

SUBJECT: Reconsideration of Releases in Scelso
Testimony and Lopez Report

(We request that this memorandum be returned to CIA
once the Board has completed its deliberations on the issues
discussed below.)

1. (S) Issue. This memo is to request that the JFK
Board reconsider its decision to release certain information
contained in the HSCA testimony of John Scelso and in the
Lopez Report. Specifically CIA requests that the phrases
"political action program" (pg. 64 Scelso Testimony, pg.
177, 178 Lopez Report); "Mexican police" (pg. 85 Scelso
Testimony); and "is exposed by Agee in his book" (pg. 141
Scelso Testimony) be postponed from release. We also offer
some suggestions for substitute language which we believe
will not detract from the JFK assassination story, yet still
protect the information at issue.

I. Mexican Political Action Program

"We were running, at that time, a vast political action
program in Mexico City to try to swing Mexico around from
its Leftist direction to a middle of the road direction and
it succeeded. I don't know whether you informed yourself
about the magnitude of our political action program there at
the time -- absolutely enormous"

(Scelso, 64; Lopez, pp. 177, 178)

2. (S) From the early 1950's to the mid-1960's,
Mexico City Station conducted a political action campaign to
minimize leftist influence on and within the Mexican
Government. The campaign utilized student groups, a front
group of progressive businessmen, and Catholic lay group
writers and operatives in political action and media
placement efforts. The Station currently does not have a
political action program designed to influence Mexican

CL BY 2224130
CL REASON 1.5(c)
DECL ON X1
DRV FM LOC 3-82
LIA 3-82,HUM 4-82
SECRET

---

13-00000
SECRET

SUBJECT: Reconsideration of Releases in Scelso
Testimony and Lopez Report

politics, nor has it undertaken such activity anytime in the
recent past. Nevertheless, any public confirmation by the
U.S. Government of those activities would risk an adverse
reaction. Such adverse reaction would impact on current
Mexico City Station operations and be harmful to U.S.
interests.

3. (S) As has been described to the Board in previous
briefings by the Mexico branch chief, Mexicans guard their
sovereignty carefully. Nothing will infuriate them more
than allegations of CIA meddling in their internal politics.
In fact, earlier this year, the Mexican Government postponed
a visit to Mexico by the DCI for fear that it might be
perceived (and exploited) by the Mexican media and political
opposition as the CIA being called in to assist with
handling the problem of the Peoples' Revolutionary Army.

4. (S) The fact that the CIA activity to which the
Mexicans would object occurred more than 30 years ago will
not lessen the reaction. Release of the Scelso comments
would risk an adverse reaction from the Mexicans, which
would likely include calls for an examination by the Mexican
Government of current CIA activities. This could lead to
increased scrutiny of Station operations and personnel and
could jeopardize our unilateral activities. It could also
have a chilling effect on activities conducted jointly with
the Mexican services, who will be reluctant to engage in
programs that could become subject to public scrutiny and
political debate.

5. (S) Furthermore, the fact that these statements
were made by Scelso amounts to an official confirmation of
the underlying facts, making it very difficult for CIA to
protect the same or similar information from further release
in the future. Speculation in books, articles, and other
publications, or disclosures by Congress are often perceived
by the public as evidence that that information is in the
public domain and therefore is no longer classified. The
CIA has nevertheless been able to legally protect the
information from unauthorized disclosure. The courts have
held that because there has been no official confirmation,
(i.e. declassification by the appropriate CIA official) the
CIA may continue to protect from release the
the information at issue even when there has been widespread
public discussion on the issue in question.

6. (S) In this case, should there be a question raised
as to the classification status of documents on the
political program referred to by Scelso, it would be
difficult to convince a court that such information had not
been declassified because of the release by the Board.
Scelso was a long-time CIA employee who was in charge of the
investigation by the Agency into the assassination of the

SECRET

---

13-00000
SECRET

SUBJECT: Reconsideration of Releases in Scelso
Testimony and Lopez Report

President, and his testimony was taken under oath, with the
knowledge of the Agency, and in a classified setting.
Furthermore, the attached letter to Louis Stokes, Chairman
of the Select Committee on Assassination from former Acting
DCI Frank Carlucci also indicates that Scelso was acting as
an official of the CIA. The DCI states that any classified
testimony made by Agency staff before the Committees would
be considered "authorized provision" of the information.
This was to ensure that "all persons respond fully and
truthfully" to the Committee. Carlucci's letter, especially
taken together with the first few pages of Scelso's
testimony, make it clear that Scelso was speaking as an
official of the CIA.

7. (S) A court would, therefore, probably find that
Scelso's statements were not just merely speculation by a
former Agency employee, but in fact, were official
confirmation of the political action program. Anything
suggesting official confirmation of classified information
would lead a judge to the conclusion that the information at
issue had been declassified by the CIA. This would make it
very difficult for CIA to continue to protect this
information from unauthorized disclosure. When confusion
arises as to the classification status of information, it
could lead to complicated legal proceedings and protracted
and unnecessary litigation at great expense to all parties.

II. Liaison with Mexico

"We did not have any source of Cuban employees. We only had
Mexican police. We had a whole reporting set up there with
that, two of them, who watched things like that. (Scelso pg.
185).

8. (S) Release by the Board of Scelso's comments about
the Mexican police in conjunction with surveillance coverage
of the Mexico City airport could similarly have a chilling
effect on our current liaison relationship with the Mexicans.
The Station has worked, and continues to work, with liaison
against compatible targets, including tracking the arrival
and departure at the Mexico City airport of targets of
interest. Although the targets have obviously changed since
the time that Scelso is speaking of, these surveillance
operations are ongoing. The success of these current joint
operations could be threatened by any revelation today of
Mexican cooperation with the CIA in the past.

9. (S) CIA objects to this release on similar grounds
as stated in the prior section - disclosure of the Scelso
comments would constitute official acknowledgment by CIA of
the assistance provided by Mexican liaison to the Agency.
Such acknowledgment could affect not only current operations

SECRET

---

13-00000
SECRET

SUBJECT: Reconsideration of Releases in Scelso
Testimony and Lopez Report

described above, but also result in reluctance by Mexican
liaison to provide similar assistance in the future. The
Mexican Government would likely be subject to criticism by
groups and individuals opposed on nationalism and
sovereignty grounds to such close cooperation with the U.S.
Government and, even more so, with the CIA. The continued
success of CIA cooperation with the Mexicans, whether it be
with the President, the intelligence service, or the police,
depends on the fact that those relationships are, and
continue to be, secret.

10. (S) CIA requests that the Board continue to
withhold this phrase from release and substitute in "other
sources" or something similar to this. Omitting the fact
that the airport information was obtained from Mexican
counterparts would probably leave the impression that the
information was obtained unilaterally. Although this still
presents some risk to national security, it does achieve
some level of protection to the Station's equities with
liaison.

III. Phillip Agee

(S) "That is, the variety and number of telephone
taps, surveillance teams, photo operations and other
technical operations is exposed by Agee in his book. That
exceeds anyplace else that we had in the world by a lot..."
(Scelso, pg. 141)

11. (S) CIA objects to the release of the highlighted
phrase because, for reasons described in Section 1, it
amounts to official CIA confirmation of the existence of a
teltap operation conducted jointly with the Mexicans and
with close collaboration with the President of Mexico. As
this Board is well aware, CIA has consistently requested,
the protection of liaison involvement in this teltap
operation. As the Board has agreed with CIA's position on
this matter, the only issue is whether this statement
reveals what we have agreed meets the criteria for continued
protection under the JFK Act.

12. (S) For the Board's convenience, several relevant
pages from Agee's book (Inside the Company: CIA Diary) are
attached. These pages explain in great detail the teltap
operation and the fact that it was conducted jointly between
the CIA and the Mexicans. Although such disclosures by
former employees are disturbing, they do not amount to
official confirmation of the underlying information.
Standing by itself, Agee's book can be dismissed by the
Agency as speculation, and do not compromise CIA's ability
to keep the information classified. Scelso's testimony,
however, amounts to official confirmation of Agee's book,

SECRET

---

13-00000
SECRET

SUBJECT: Reconsideration of Releases in Scelso
Testimony and Lopez Report

and does effect the Agency's ability to protect the
information from further release. Equally troubling is the
fact that Scelso's testimony could be read to confirm not
only what is accurate in Agee's book, but also what is
inaccurate.

12. (S) Furthermore, the language used by Scelso is
clear. The use of the phrase "exposed by Agee in his book"
does not allow for any other interpretation except that
Agee's description of the teltap is accurate. If Scelso had
used other language, such as "has been written about
elsewhere", the existence of the joint teltap operation
would be protected. We request that the Board protect the
phrase as it is and use the above substitute language. Such
substitute language would not alter the story of the JFK
Assassination, yet would still allow for the protection of
the joint operation.

13. (S) While the connection between Agee's book and
Scelso's testimony may at first seem attenuated, anyone
involved in the review process conducted by this Board will
know that it is not. Many individuals follow the decisions
of this Board closely, and Agee's writings about the CIA are
also well known. It is to be expected that those who read
the Scelso report would then turn to Agee's book.

John F. Pereira

SECRET

---

13-00000
SECRET
From the Desk of Linda C. Cipriani

NOTE FOR: J. Barry Harrelson
FROM: Linda C. Cipriani
DATE: 09/26/96 12:22:04 PM
SUBJECT: Agee Memo - New draft

Here it is... with Jeremy's improvements. Please read it carefully as I had to rush through this. Some of Jeremy's comments were slight
wording changes so as not to offend "the Board" so you may not notice much change. The biggest substantive change was on my FOIA
section (I have skillfully crafted this section to avoid the use of that four letter word!). Please note there is one more paragraph now
because I did add a bit about Scelso being an "official". And don't forget to attach to Stokes-DCI letter which I will fax back to you.

Have fun and let me know if you need help.

AGEEMEMO.DOC

CC:

SECRET

---

13-00000
SECRET
23 August 1996

Note For: Fred Wickham, DO
Eleanor Neiman, DO
Mike Luce, DO/Mexico
Valerie Patterson, DO/EA
Christine Hegeman, DO/EA
Linda Cipriani, OGC

From: J. Barry Harrelson, CSI/HRG
Subject: Meeting with ARRB Staff

1. Thursday afternoon I met with Dave Marwell,
Executive Director for the ARRB, and two of his staff,
Jeremy Gunn and Mary McAuliffe. I briefed them on the four
releases in the Lopez Report and Scelso Testimony that had
been identified as potential appeal items, and on the
Agency's concerns re the Australian documents. I requested
that the Board reconsider the release of the statements on
Mexico City political action programs, Scelso's comment on
Agee, the reference to the Mexican Police as a source and
Warrenton as site of the Agency's Record Center.

2. Marwell agreed to send a "staff recommendation" to
the Board recommending that they delay the release of these
four items to hear additional evidence from the Agency. The
rest of the Lopez Report and Scelso Testimony would be
released on schedule. If the Board accepts the staff's
recommendation, the four items will be addressed at the next
Washington meeting (27 September). If the Board rejects the
staff's recommendation, then we have the option of appealing
to the President. Marwell and Gunn seemed confident that
the Board would agree to delay the release.

3. Gunn requested that the Agency's additional
evidence on these four items (if provided in writing) be to
the ARRB staff by 23 September. The Agency can also brief
the Board members at the 27 September meeting. As I
understand it, DO/Mexico (Mike L.) will be preparing
evidence memos on "political action programs" and "Mexican
police" issues and OGC (Linda C.) will take the lead on
Agee. I will contact the DR/IRO (Don Hatch) on the Warrenton
issue.

4. Concerning the Australian documents, Marwell agreed
to delay Board action until the 16 October meeting. The
Agency's proposal on these documents should be sent to the
ARRB staff as soon as possible.

CL By: 611637 CL REASON: 1.5(c)
DECL ON: X1
DRV FM: MULTIPLE
SECRET

---

13-00000

Testimony of then Retired DO officer
John SCELSO (pseudonym)
to the HSCA, 16 May 1978

|  |  |
|---|---|
| political action program | P.64 |
| largest teltap coverage; 30 lines | PP. 52,53,56,57 |
| "is exposed by Agee in his book" | P. 141 |
| coverage of the airport addition to (Mexican Police being a liaison relationship, it shows our access to airport control items | P. 185 |

The phrase, if released, could tie together what we've been trying to protect - primarily a joint teltap with the Mexicans and close collaboration with the President of Mexico. It also gives credence to the many allegations of Agee, which the Agency has neither confirmed nor denied.

Please review the attached pages as determined by the Assassinations Records Review Board members fellow highlighted passages are as CIA submitted information to the Board; redacted Bracketed passages FYI as Board upheld deletions

---

13-00000
300 7TH STREET, S.W.
REPORTERS BUILDING, WASHINGTON, D. C. 20024 (202) 554-2345

1-64

been handled in any different manner?

Mr. Scelso. It would have been in the case of dissemination of information about him, but I do not think that any operational action would have been taken to apprehend him or to contact him or to try to force him back to the United States.

Mr. Goldsmith. What about in terms of -- how would the dissemination have been treated differently?

Mr. Scelso. Well, it simply means that we would have disseminated any additional information that we got.

Mr. Goldsmith. Did Headquarters ever criticize the Mexico City station for failure to send this information?

Mr. Scelso. No. That was not because we were trying to go easy on them, it is simply because it is in the nature of the business. What you are trying to do is engage, as I used to say, in important illegal manipulations of society, secretly.

We were running, at that time, a vast political action program in Mexico City to try to swing Mexico around from its Leftist direction to a middle of the road direction and it succeeded. I do not know whether you informed yourself about the magnitude of our political action program there at the time -- absolutely enormous.

We were trying to follow the Soviets and all the satellites and the Cubans. At the same time, the main thrust of the Station's effort was to attempt to recruit Russians, Cubans and satellite people.

SECRET

---

13-00000
300 7TH STREET, S.W.
REPORTERS BUILDING, WASHINGTON, D. C. 20024 (202) 554-2345

1-52

Mr. Scelo. Yes.

Now, why did they not report everything they found out?

Mr. Goldsmith. Answer your own question.

Mr. Scelo. The telephone center envoy was manned by principally Mexican supervision of an American, or Mexican-American. These people were just inundated with information and apparently did not extract this and transmit it back to Washington.

The later contacts with the Cuban Embassy, and so on, which only were divulged after the assassination. It is an enormous problem. Mexico had one of the biggest and most active telephone intercept operations in the whole world and the job of processing this material is just impossible.

Mr. Goldsmith. Let's go through this step by step, although I was not going to do this at this time. I am going to modify the line of inquiry somewhat.

Do you know how many telephone intercepts there were in the Mexico City station?

Mr. Scelo. How many lines were being tapped?

Mr. Goldsmith. Yes, at the Cuban and then at the Soviet.

Mr. Scelo. I think there are about 30 lines being tapped altogether. That is just the number that sticks in my mind.

Mr. Goldsmith. Thirty meaning a total of thirty from both the Soviet and the Cuban?

Mr. Scelo. And various security suspects.

SECRET

---

13-00000
300 7TH STREET, S.W.
REPORTERS BUILDING, WASHINGTON, D. C. 20024 (202) 554-2345

1-53

Mr. Goldsmith. Would the security suspects to related to the Soviet or Cuban?

Mr. Scelo. Some of them were American Communists living there whom we tapped at the specific request of J. Edgar Hoover.

Mr. Goldsmith. Of those thirty lines how many, at your best estimate, would have been for the Soviet and Cubans?

Mr. Scelo. However many outside telephone lines they had.

Mr. Goldsmith. You think just about every outside phone?

Mr. Scelo. I think they tapped all the outside lines.

Mr. Goldsmith. How certain of that are you?

Mr. Scelo. Well, this is just based on my recollection, going back 15 years.

Mr. Goldsmith. In any event, your earlier comment was that the telephone surveillance operation in Mexico City was one of the most extensive in the world?

Mr. Scelo. Yes. And of course, they taped a great deal which they could not exploit. They could not later listen to it; they did not have time. They used to listen to it sort of spottily, you see, and attempt then to exploit what was the most important.

Mr. Goldsmith. Your answer to my earlier question as to why the information on Oswald was not sent to the

SECRET

---

13-00000
300 7TH STREET, S.W. REPORTERS BUILDING, WASHINGTON, D. C. 20024 (202) 554-2345

1-56

(Pause)

Mr. Scelo. Yes.

Mr. Goldsmith. I have a few questions to ask you on that. This refers to the envoy operation that was the joint operation conducted by the Mexicans and the Americans and I believe this indicates that there were 30 lines, in fact, connected at one time, so that your early testimony was, in all likelihood, accurate.

I am going to have to ask you also to read the section marked number 3, Oswald coverage.

Mr. Scelo. What is that report, if I may ask?

Mr. Goldsmith. This is taken from the 1977 Inspector General Report.

Mr. Scelo. I see.

Mr. Goldsmith. Please read the section marked Oswald Coverage through to the end of the paragraph on page 162.

(Pause)

On page 161, the section where it says: "Oswald Coverage.

In mid-62, the Mexican officer in charge of the envoy, the joint tap operation, asked the American officer at the envoy listening post for the telephone numbers of the Soviet, Cuban and satellite embassies in anticipation of possible coverage.

The question I have for you is as follows. It would seem, from the earlier paragraph, that the liaison operation

SECRET

---

13-00000
300 7TH STREET, S.W. REPORTERS BUILDING, WASHINGTON, D. C. 20024 (202) 554-2345

1-57

was already in effect, so why would it have been necessary for the Mexican officer in charge to ask the American officer for the telephone numbers?

Mr. Scelo. The Mexicans were probably tapping other things at that time, not these targets. They were tapping other Mexicans, and so on. We had our own unilateral tap operations --

Mr. Goldsmith. I understand that.

Mr. Scelo. -- on those important targets.

Mr. Goldsmith. So, are you saying that prior to 1962 the liaison operations with the Mexicans did not cover the Soviet, Cuban and satellite embassies?

Mr. Scelo. That is what that says. I do not really recall. That would have been in mid-'62. That was just about the time I was coming onboard in the Mexico desk. And I do not recall what the previous status was.

I do recall that they certainly did ask -- they suddenly disclosed the intent to tap certain lines. We were tapping unilaterally.

Mr. Goldsmith. It indicates that the liaison operation had taps on 30 lines. If it was not the Soviet, Cuban and satellite embassies, it makes us wonder what it could have been.

Mr. Scelo. Mexican politicians and security suspects; Mexican Communist Party people. There were three or four or

SECRET

---

13-00000
300 7TH STREET, S.W. REPORTERS BUILDING, WASHINGTON, D. C. 20024 (202) 554-2345

1-141

Mr. Goldsmith. Is the Mexico City's station's operations one of the most sensitive of all of the stations at the Agency?

Mr. Scelso. It was then. That is, the variety and number of telephone taps, surveillance teams, photo operations and other technical operations is exposed by Agee in his book. That exceeds anyplace else that we had in the world by a lot. There is no other station in the world that has that good operations.

Then came Caracas. That got to be real good. Nothing like it in Europe.

Mr. Goldsmith. I would like to draw your attention to a cable which, unfortunately, I do not have with me. The cable is referred to in Book 5 of the Senate report, written by Thomas Karamessinas to the Mexico City station in which he indicated and said the arrest of Sylvia Duran would jeopardize U.S. freedom of action.

Do you remember that cable?

Mr. Scelso. Yes.

Mr. Goldsmith. Do you know why it was sent?

Mr. Scelso. At that time, we were not sure that Oswald might not have been a Cuban agent, and the arrest of a foreign consular person was quite a serious matter under international law.

Although Sylvia Duran was a Mexican citizen, I believe, nevertheless, I did not think -- Karamessinas may not have

SECRET

---

13-00000
Appendix 1
Alphabetical and numerical listing of CIA employees, agents and collaborators and organizations controlled, financed and influenced by the CIA

ACOSTA VELASCO, JORGE Nephew of Ecuadorean President, Jose Maria Velasco. Minister of the Treasury and Minister of Government. Informant and political-action agent of the Quito station.

AGENCIA ORBE LATINOAMERICANO. Feature news service serving most of Latin America. Financed and controlled by the CIA through the Santiago, Chile, station.

AGRIBUSINESS DEVELOPMENT. INC. (LAAD). Provided cover for CIA officer Bruce Berckmans, q.v.

AGUERRONDO, MARIO. Uruguayan Army colonel and former Montevideo Chief of Police. Close station liaison collaborator.

AIR AMERICA. CIA-Owned airline for paramilitary operations, mainly in the Far East.

ALARCON, ALBERTO, Guayaquil businessman and Liberal Party activist. Principal agent for CIA student operations in Ecuador. Cryptonym: ECLOSE.

ALBORNOZ, ALFREDO. Ecuadorean Minister of Government (internal security). Close collaborator of the Quito station.

ALLEN, JOHN, CIA operations officer at Camp Peary training base, formerly assigned in the Near East.

ALLIANCE FOR ANTI-TOTALITARIAN EDUCATION. Propaganda mechanism of the Montevideo station.

ALMEIDA, WILSON. Publisher and editor of Voz Universitaria, q.v., a university student newspaper. Propaganda agent for the Quito station.

ALONZO OLIVE, RAUL. Cuban engineer in sugar industry. Member of commercial delegation to Brazil and Uruguay. Recruited by the CIA in Montevideo before return to Cuba.

AMADOR MARQUEZ, ENRIQUE. Labour and political-action agent of Guayaquil base. Minister of Economy.

AMAYA QUINTANA, ENRIQUE. Leader of the Peruvian Movement of the Revolutionary Left (MIR), recruited in Guayaquil as a penetration agent. Resettled by the CIA in Mexico.

AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE, COUNTY AND MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES. The US member of the Public Service International

---

13-00000

INTERNATIONAL FEDERATION OF PETROLEUM AND CHEMICAL WORKERS (IFPCW). The ITS for this industry set up originally by the CIA through the US Oil Workers International Union.

INTERNATIONAL FEDERATION OF PLANTATION, AGRICULTURAL AND ALLIED WORKERS (IFFSAW). The international trade secretariat for rural works. Used by the CIA for labour operations.

INTERNATIONAL FEDERATION OF WOMEN LAWYERS. Organization used by the CIA for propaganda operations.

INTERNATIONAL POLICE ACADEMY. CIA-controlled police training school under AID cover in Washington DC. Formerly the Inter-American Police Academy founded in Panama by the Panama station.

INTERNATIONAL POLICESERVICES SCHOOL. CIA training school for police in Washington under commercial cover.

INTERNATIONAL STUDENT CONFERENCE (ISC). See COORDINATING SECRETARIAT OF NATIONAL UNIONS OF STUDENTS (COSEC).

INTERNATIONAL TRADE SECRETARIATS. A generic description of the international trade-anion organizations having as members the national unions of works in a particular industry. There are 15-20 ITS's most of which have been used by the CIA for labour operations. Some have headquarters in Europe, others in the US but close relations maintained with the ICFTU in Brussels.

INTERNATIONAL TRANSPORT WORKERS FEDERATION (ITF). The international trade secretariat for transport industries. Used by the CIA for labour operations. See JOAQUIN (JACK) OTERO.

JACOME, FRANCINE. Austrian married to Ecuadorean. Quito agent who wrote ver letters Luis Toroella, q.v., and served as transcriber and courier for telephone-tap operation. Cryptonym: ECDOXY.

JARAMILLO, KIME. Velasquista leader and Quito station penetration agent.

JAUREGUI, ARTURO. Secretary-General of the Inter-American Regional Labor Organization (ORIT), q.v., in Mexico City. CIA agent.

JAUREGUIZA Mondeo police commissioner in charge of movements of a-domiciled population. Montevideo station liaison collaborator

JONES, BERKE Agent of the Montevideo station used in operation to break the under system of the Embassy of the United Arab Republic (Egypt)

KARAMESSINES, THOMAS Assistant Deputy Director for Plans and later Deputy Director for Plans.

KAUFMAN, WALTER J. Chief of Mexico branch of Western Hemisphere Division.

KINDSCHI, JACK. CIA operations officer in Stockholm using non-official cover of Washington DC public relations firm Robert Mullen Co. Assigned to Mexico City with same cover.

KING, COLONEL, J. C. Chief of the Western Hemisphere Division of the DDP.

KLADENSKY, OTTO, Quito Oldsmobile dealer and station agent for intelligence on the Czech diplomatic mission. Also the cutout to Re