```markdown
14-00000
104-10220-10028

[2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

OUTGOING MESSAGE

CONF: INFO: FILE
CIR 115000

TO: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION/WASHINGTON, D.C./GENERAL INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION

SECRET--WARNING NOTICE - SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED - NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS

CIR-316/03605-77

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATION INTO THE DEATH OF ORLANDO LETELIER; INFORMATION ON THE ORGANIZATION OF CORU

REFERENCE: FIRCI6312/03290-77, 7 OCTOBER 1977

1. THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION PERTAINS TO INDIVIDUALS MENTIONED IN REFERENCE. THIS INFORMATION IS BEING MADE AVAILABLE TO ASSISTANT UNITED STATES ATTORNEY EUGENE M. PROPPER.

2. THIS AGENCY HAS NO INFORMATION ON ROBERTO CARRERAS, AN ARGENTINE NATIONAL WHO WAS IDENTIFIED AS A FORMER EMPLOYEE OF THE GULF AND WESTERN CORPORATION AT THE FALCONBRIDGE PROJECT, DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (SIC) AND WHO IS CURRENTLY EMPLOYED BY "EL ROSARIO" MINE. HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: IN DECEMBER 1976 THE SAME SOURCE WHO PROVIDED PARAGRAPHS 2 - 6 OF REFERENCE REPORTED THAT EULALIO FRANCISCO "FRANK" CASTRO PAZ AND ROLANDO OTERO HERNANDEZ TRAVELLED AT LEAST TWICE TO LA ROMANA TO SEE ALVARO CARTA, CUBAN BORN PRESIDENT OF GULF AND WESTERN AMERICAS, TO SEEK ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE. (SANTO DOMINGO STATION COMMENT: CARTA NOW HAS A TOP JOB WITH GULF AND WESTERN IN CORAL GABLES, FLORIDA.)

3. RUBEN SOTO IS PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH THE SOTO PREVIOUSLY IDENTIFIED TO YOU AS ONE OF THE BEST FRIENDS OF U.S. ARMY MAJOR JUAN ARMAND MONTES. SOTO, THE OWNER OF "LA FRANCESA" BAKERY (PASTRY SHOP) AND A CUBAN EXILE, IS KNOWN TO BE CLOSE TO ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA AND FRANK CASTRO.

A SOURCE OF UNDETERMINED RELIABILITY REPORTED IN LATE 1976 THAT HE WAS TOLD BY A CUBAN EXILE IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC THAT A DELEGATION OF LOCAL CUBANS, AMONG THEM RUBEN SOTO, WAS SOLICITING MONEY FOR CUBAN RIGHTIST ACTIVITIES.

ONE RUBEN SOTO HAYET, WHO WAS BORN IN ISLA DE PINOS, CUBA, ON 21 SEPTEMBER 1937, WAS A MEMBER OF BRIGADE 2506 AND WAS A CANDIDATE TO RECEIVE PARAMILITARY TRAINING FROM THIS AGENCY IN EARLY 1962. THERE HAS BEEN NO AGENCY CONTACT WITH SOTO HAYET SINCE THEN.

IN 1963 ONE RUBEN SOTO AULET, POSSIBLY IDENTICAL WITH RUBEN SOTO HAYET, WAS DESCRIBED AS A FORMER 2506 BRIGADE MEMBER WHO WAS AN EXECUTIVE MEMBER OF THE MOVEMENT FOR REVOLUTIONARY RECOVERY (MRR).

4. IN DECEMBER 1976 THE SOURCE OF PARAGRAPHS 2 - 6 OF REFERENCE REPORTED THAT IN JULY OR AUGUST 1976, DURING A MEETING OF A GROUP OF CUBAN EXILES AT THE PIZZA RESTAURANT IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, ARMANDO CABALLEROS, OWNER OF THE RESTAURANT, SPOKE OPENLY ABOUT PLANS TO ASSASSINATE "UN GRAN FUNCIONARIO AMERICANO" IN COSTA RICA. HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: PLEASE SEE CIOL-0445-78, 23 DECEMBER 1976, WHICH PROVIDED YOU WITH INFORMATION ON TERRORIST PLOTTING OF CUBAN EXILES AND INFORMATION RELATING TO THE ACTIVITIES OF U.S. ARMY MAJOR MONTES. IN RELATION TO THE PARAGRAPH TWO MEETING, SOURCE REPORTED THAT THE PARTICIPANTS DISCUSSED THE FACT THAT FORMER SECRETARY OF STATE KISSINGER MET IN EITHER MEXICO OR COSTA RICA WITH "AN IMPORTANT FIGURE IN THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT NAMED HART" (PROBABLY ARMANDO HART DAVALOS). KISSINGER WAS LABELED A TRAITOR AND PLANS WERE DISCUSSED TO ASSASSINATE HIM IN SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA. THE PERSON CHARGED WITH COORDINATING THIS ACTION WAS PETER (OR PEDRO) MARTINEZ. SOURCE BELIEVED THAT MARTINEZ RESIDED IN MIAMI. THE PLAN WAS NOT CARRIED OUT BECAUSE THE "CIA FOUND OUT" AND "AN IMPORTANT EXILE," IDENTIFIED AS MANOLO REYES, WHO ALSO LIVED IN MIAMI, OBJECTED AND THREATENED TO ADVISE A PROMINENT POLITICIAN.

201-0284805

ONE ARMANDO CABALLERO PARODI, WHO WAS BORN IN HAVANA ON 10 JULY 1941, WAS A FORMER MEMBER OF THE 2506 BRIGADE. HE WAS TERMINATED BY THIS AGENCY IN MAY 1963. IN LATE 1963 THERE WAS INTEREST IN USING CABALLERO IN TEACHING INFILTRATION TECHNIQUES BUT THERE IS NO INDICATION THAT HE WAS CONTACTED IN THIS REGARD.

5. THIS AGENCY HAS NO INFORMATION ON DANILO GONZALEZ, IDENTIFIED AS PRESIDENT OF THE CUBAN CLUB IN SANTO DOMINGO, OR ON LOCAL EMPLOYEES OF THE AMERICAN EMBASSY IN SANTO DOMINGO, JOSE RENE ROMAN, JOSE JEREZ OR FRANKLIN POLANCO.

6. JORGE ALONSO PUJOL IS PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH JORGE ALONSO-PUJOL BERMUDEZ WHO WAS BORN IN HAVANA ON 20 JULY 1923. HE IS THE SON OF FORMER CUBAN VICE PRESIDENT GUILLERMO ALONSO-PUJOL, WHO SERVED DURING THE ADMINISTRATION OF CARLOS PRIO. ALONSO-PUJOL RECEIVED TRAINING FROM THIS AGENCY DURING 1961 AND WAS CAPTURED AT THE BAY OF PIGS. HIS FATHER PURPORTEDLY PAID $100,000 FOR HIS SON'S RELEASE. HOWEVER, AT THE TIME THE RANSOM WAS EFFECTED, THERE WAS CONSIDERABLE SPECULATION AMONG EXILES IN THE MIAMI AREA THAT HIS FATHER DID NOT PAY THE RANSOM BUT HAD MADE A DEAL WITH THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT FOR ALONSO-PUJOL TO UNDERTAKE PRO-CASTRO PROPAGANDA IN LATIN AMERICA IN EXCHANGE FOR HIS FREEDOM. ALONSO-PUJOL WAS ARRESTED IN MIAMI IN JUNE 1970 ON NARCOTICS-RELATED CHARGES: IT IS BELIEVED THAT THE DRUG ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION MAY HAVE ADDITIONAL PERTINENT INFORMATION ON JORGE ALONSO-PUJOL BERMUDEZ.

7. THIS AGENCY HAS BEEN UNABLE TO POSITIVELY IDENTIFY ERNESTO HERNANDEZ BASED ON THE LACK OF PERTINENT BIOGRAPHIC INFORMATION.

8. PABLO MARTIN IS THE PEN NAME USED BY AVENOL FRANCO, WHO IS ALSO KNOWN AS FRANCISCO AVENOLL FRANCO, WHO MAY NOT BE IDENTICAL WITH THE MARTIN MENTIONED IN REFERENCE, WAS BORN IN HAVANA ON 26 JUNE 1936. FRANCO HAS SERVED AS PROPAGANDA SECRETARY FOR THE CUBAN EXILE ORGANIZATION "JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA" AND WAS EDITOR OF THE ANTI-CASTRO PUBLICATION "AMIGO DEL PUEBLO" AS OF MAY 1968.

9. FRANK TEIRA IS POSSIBLY IDENTICAL WITH FRANCISCO ANTONIO TEIRA ALBERFONSO WHO WAS BORN IN HAVANA ON 12 JULY 1934. TEIRA IS A FORMER CUBAN INTELLIGENCE OFFICER WHO JUMPED SHIP IN PANAMA IN JULY 1969 AND REQUESTED ASYLUM. HE HAS APPEARED BEFORE THE U.S. SENATE COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY AND HAS GIVEN TESTIMONY RELATING TO THE COMMUNIST THREAT TO THE U.S. VIA THE CARIBBEAN.

10. THIS AGENCY HAS BEEN UNABLE TO POSITIVELY IDENTIFY LUIS ROSS BASED ON THE LACK OF PERTINENT BIOGRAPHIC INFORMATION.

11. JOSE AGUILA IS POSSIBLY IDENTICAL WITH JOSE RAMON FLORENCIO AGUILA CALIMANO WHO WAS BORN IN LAS VILAS, CUBA, ON 27 OCTOBER 1932. AGUILA HAS LONG BEEN IDENTIFIED AS AN INFORMANT FOR DOMINICAN INTELLIGENCE.

12. ONE A. WILFREDO BLANCO DEL CASTILLO, BORN IN GUINES, CUBA, ON 4 FEBRUARY 1943, WAS SCHEDULED TO RECEIVE PARAMILITARY TRAINING FROM THIS AGENCY IN EARLY 1961. THIS AGENCY HAS NO ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON A. WILFREDO BLANCO DEL CASTILLO.

13. LEVI MARRERO IS PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH LEVI C. MARRERO ARTILES WHO WAS BORN IN HAVANA ON 5 OCTOBER 1910. MARRERO HAS BEEN ACTIVE IN THE REVOLUTIONARY PARTY OF THE PEOPLE (PRP) SINCE ITS FORMATION IN COSTA RICA IN NOVEMBER 1972.

14. THIS AGENCY HAS BEEN UNABLE TO POSITIVELY IDENTIFY JOSE LUIS PRADO BASED ON THE LACK OF PERTINENT BIOGRAPHIC INFORMATION.

15. ANDRES SARGEN IS PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH ANDRES NAZARIO SARGEN WHO WAS BORN IN LAS VILAS, CUBA, ON 11 MARCH 1926. NAZARIO IS A LONG TIME ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVIST AND SECRETARY GENERAL OF THE CUBAN EXILE ORGANIZATION "ALPHA 66."

16. JORGE MAS CANOSA IS PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH JORGE LINCOLN MAS CANOSA WHO WAS BORN IN SANTIAGO DE CUBA ON 21 SEPTEMBER 1939. MAS WAS RECRUITED BY THIS AGENCY IN MARCH 1961 TO PARTICIPATE IN THE BAY OF PIGS INVASION. HE HAS NOT BEEN USED BY THIS AGENCY IN ANY OPERATIONAL CAPACITY SINCE THE BAY OF PIGS. MAS HAS BEEN ACTIVE IN THE CUBAN REPRESENTATION IN EXILE (RECE) GROUP. IN JANUARY 1966 HE WAS THE SUBJECT OF A DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE INQUIRY REGARDING CERTAIN INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN A HIT-AND-RUN RAID CONDUCTED IN THE HAVANA HARBOR AREA IN NOVEMBER 1965.

17. JUAN PEREZ FRANCO IS PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH JUAN EDUARDO PEREZ FRANCO WHO WAS BORN IN HAVANA ON 28 JANUARY 1928. PEREZ RECEIVED PARAMILITARY TRAINING FROM THIS AGENCY IN LATE 1960 AND WAS ACTIVE IN THE 2506 BRIGADE. AGENCY RELATIONSHIP WITH PEREZ WAS TERMINATED IN JANUARY 1962.

18. FREDDY LUGO IS PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH THE FREDDY LUGO WHO WAS ARRESTED IN 1976 IN CONNECTION WITH THE CUBANA AIRLINER CRASH.

19. GERMAN LOZANO IS PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH GERMAN RICARDO LOZANO WHO WAS ARRESTED ALONG WITH FREDDY LUGO IN 1976.

20. THIS AGENCY HAS BEEN UNABLE TO POSITIVELY IDENTIFY FERNANDO BUENO BASED ON THE LACK OF PERTINENT BIOGRAPHIC INFORMATION.

21. GENERAL JUAN NEPOMUCENO FOLCH PEREZ, AIR ADVISOR TO THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH, WAS BORN IN PUERTO PLATA, DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, ON 3 AUGUST 1926. FOLCH HAS SERVED AS SECRETARY OF STATE FOR THE DOMINICAN AIR FORCE AND MORE RECENTLY AS AIR FORCE CHIEF OF STAFF. IN LATE MAY 1972 USDAO, SANTO DOMINGO, REPORTED THAT FORMER CHIEF OF THE CUBAN NATIONAL POLICE, GENERAL MANUEL BENITEZ VALDEZ, HAD VISITED THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC IN AN EFFORT TO SELL, TO THE DOMINICANS, ARMAMENT AND SPARE PARTS FROM A U.S.-BASED FIRM WHICH BENITEZ WAS REPRESENTING. BENITEZ HAD CONTACTED TWO DOMINICAN GENERALS, ONE OF THEM BEING FOLCH. USDAO COMMENTED THAT FOLCH'S ASSOCIATION WITH CUBAN EXILES AND ARMS SALESMEN HAD BEEN THE SUBJECT OF PREVIOUS CORRESPONDENCE DURING 1972 AND THAT FOLCH WAS ALLEGEDLY INVOLVED WITH MILITANT CUBAN EXILE GROUPS, SUCH AS "ALPHA 66," DURING 1962-1963.

22. ACCORDING TO A USUALLY RELIABLE SOURCE, IN LATE DECEMBER 1965 ONE VIRGILIO POU WAS IDENTIFIED AS A MEMBER OF A RIGHTIST GROUP WHICH WAS ORGANIZED TO COUNTER THE SPREADING OF INFLUENCE BY FORMER "CONSTITUTIONALISTS" IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC. THE GROUP WAS RESPONSIBLE FOR PLACING PLASTIC EXPLOSIVE AT THE GRAVESITE OF LT. COLONEL RAFAEL TOMAS FERNANDEZ DOMINGUEZ IN SANTIAGO, DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, IN MID-DECEMBER 1965 IN AN APPARENT ATTEMPT TO MURDER COLONEL FRANCISCO CAAMANO DENO, WHO WAS ATTENDING A CEREMONY IN HONOR OF FERNANDEZ. THE GROUP WAS UNSUCCESSFUL IN ITS ATTEMPT TO DETONATE THE EXPLOSIVE.

23. FRANK CABRAL IS PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH DR. FRANK CABRAL CALCAGNO WHO WAS BORN IN SANTO DOMINGO, DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, ON 4 FEBRUARY 1942. CABRAL SERVED AS CIVILIAN ADVISOR TO PRESIDENT JOAQUIN BALAGUER FROM 1970 UNTIL HIS ARREST IN LATE JUNE 1974 AS A RESULT OF THE DISCOVERY OF NUMEROUS WEAPONS AND TELTAP EQUIPMENT IN HIS HOME. CABRAL HAD USED HIS RESIDENCE AS A CENTER OF OPERATIONS WHILE RUNNING HIS OWN INTELLIGENCE NETWORK. CABRAL WAS SENT INTO EXILE AND RETURNED TO THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC FROM SPAIN IN JULY 1975. HE HAS SERVED AS SECRETARY GENERAL OF THE DISSIDENT FACTION OF THE DEMOCRATIC QUISQUEYAN PARTY (PQD).

24. MAJOR JUAN POU CASTRO, MORE COMMONLY REFERRED TO AS JUAN POU, JUNIOR, IS PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH THE BROTHER OF MAJOR JOAQUIN ANTONIO POU CASTRO. THIS AGENCY HAS NO ADDITIONAL BIOGRAPHIC DATA ON JUAN POU. HOWEVER, HIS BROTHER JOAQUIN, WHO WAS BORN IN SANTO DOMINGO ON 1 MARCH 1935, GAINED NOTORIETY BY "NEUTRALIZING" TERRORISTS WHEN HE WAS ASSOCIATED WITH THE SPECIAL OPERATIONS GROUP, MILITARY INTELLIGENCE SECTION (J-2) OF THE DOMINICAN ARMED FORCES.

25. IN APRIL 1966 ONE COLONEL PAULINO REYES (DE) LEON, WHO IS PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH THE REYES MENTIONED IN REFERENCE, WAS ONE OF THREE DOMINICAN MILITARY OFFICERS WHO WAS CALLED TO SANTO DOMINGO TO BE QUESTIONED ABOUT HIS INVOLVEMENT IN THE ALLEGED PLOT TO ASSASSINATE GENERAL JOSE MORILLO. PREVIOUS INFORMATION FROM 1965 INDICATES THAT JOSE PAULINO REYES DE LEON, WHO WAS BORN ON 5 MAY 1932 IN LA VEGA, DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, WAS COMMANDER OF THE NATIONAL POLICE IN SAN FRANCISCO DE MACORIS.

26. AN FBIS ITEM FROM JULY 1966 IDENTIFIES ONE CAPTAIN FELIPE E. ROJAS LOPEZ AS AN AIDE WITH THE INTER-AMERICAN DEFENSE BOARD. THIS AGENCY HAS NO ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON ROJAS LOPEZ. (SANTO DOMINGO STATION COMMENT: SOURCE WAS NOT POSITIVE THAT ROJAS ATTENDED THE MEETING.)

27. ONE MAJOR DARIO L. DIAZ GIL, WHO WAS BORN IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC ON 19 DECEMBER 1936, IS A MEMBER OF THE DOMINICAN AIR FORCE PARACHUTE BRIGADE.

28. ANA MARGARITA (DE) WINDT IS THE WIFE OF EULALIO FRANCISCO (FRANK) CASTRO PAZ.

29. IN MAY 1977 OUR MEXICO CITY FIELD STATION IDENTIFIED WINFRED E. HODGEN AS THE PARTNER OF FRANK CASTRO. THE STATION ADVISED THAT IN EARLY 1977 HODGEN GAVE A PHONY CHECK FROM A MIAMI BANK IN THE AMOUNT OF $23,000 TO A DOMINICAN MONEY CHANGER (FNU) SANTANA. SANTANA STATED THAT HE HAD CHANGED "MANY MANY" DOLLAR CHECKS INTO DOMINICAN PESOS FOR HODGEN/CASTRO AND THIS WAS THE FIRST PHONY CHECK. SANTANA ALSO SAID HE BELIEVED HODGEN WAS HIDING IN GUATEMALA. IT IS BELIEVED THAT THE FAA MAY HAVE ADDITIONAL PERTINENT INFORMATION ON WINFRED E. HODGEN.

30. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION DEVELOPED BY THIS AGENCY ON EULALIO FRANCISCO CASTRO PAZ, ROLANDO OTERO HERNANDEZ, ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA AND GUILLERMO NOVO SAMPOL HAS BEEN FORWARDED TO YOU IN PREVIOUS CORRESPONDENCE.

31. THE ABOVE INFORMATION WAS ACQUIRED BY CIA PURSUANT TO ITS RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE COLLECTION OF INTELLIGENCE ON FOREIGN ASPECTS OF INTERNATIONAL TERRORIST ACTIVITY. THIS INFORMATION SHOULD NOT BE FURTHER DISSEMINATED WITHOUT PRIOR CONSULTATION WITH THIS AGENCY.

32. CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XGDS-1.2.A

"B" CODE TO FOLLOWING: 201-0292411 (SOTO-HAYET), 201-0284805 (CABALLERO), 201-0294335 (ALONSO-PUJOL), 201-0834598 (FRANCO), 201-0653347 (TEIRA), 201-0332287 (AGUILA), 201-0298826 (BLANCO), 201-0355380 (NAZARIO), 201-0297817 (MAS), 201-0285794 (PEREZ), 201-0355001 (FOLCH), 201-0878309 (CABRAL), 201-0842677 (POU, JOAQUIN), INDEX: MAJOR DARIO L. DIAZ GIL; WINFRED E. HODGEN, AND ANA MARGARITA DE WINDT, WIFE OF CASTRO PAZ (201-0742365).

ORIG: LA/AN/CH (BASHAW X1034); COORD: C/LA/AN (BEARDSLEY); C/LA/CAR (PALMER); C/LA/COG (LATRASH); AGC/DDO (GOLDIN); C/LA/OPS (DISTEFANO); SA/C/LA (STURBITTS); AUTH: C/LAD (WARREN); REL: C/PCS/LSN/ID (KUHN).

DATE: 20 OCTOBER 1977
ALICE BASHAW
LA/AN/CH

C/LA/AN (BEARDSLEY)
C/LA/CAR (PALMER)
C/LA/COG (LATRASH)
AGC/DDO (GOLDIN)
C/LA/OPS (DISTEFANO)
SA/C/LA (STURBITTS)
C/PCS/LSN/ID (KUHN)

FBI DOCUMENT

DATE: 21 JULY 1977
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
SUBJECT: UNKNOWN SUBJECTS; EXPLOSION IN CAR DRIVEN BY ORLANDO LETELIER - VICTIM (DECEASED)

FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (WASH., D.C.)

CABLE RE DIRECTOR

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED
ACTION UNIT

T 122443
EI A3 82
PAGE 01
IN 38 56 43
TOR:2621232 AUG 77
SAGO 37016

SECRET 2621292 AUG 77 STAFF
CITE SANTIAGO 37016
TO: BUENOS AIRES INFO DIRECTOR.

WNINTEL WAEXT FUDWELL
REF: MEMO OF 4 AUG 77 FROM LEGATT BUENOS AIRES FORWARDED BY TM

1. PLS PASS FOLLOWING COMMENTS TO LEGATT SCHERRER KEYED TO HIS REF MEMO ON DEBRIEFING OF ROLANDO OTERO HERNANDEZ:

1) NO STATION, DAO TRACES ON MAJOR (FNU) TORRES.

2) NO STATION TRACES MARCELO (MARCELLO) ESTOBEL OR ESTROBEL (PH). ONLY NAME CLOSE IS ONE MARIO ESTIBIL (SIC) MAHUIDA, WHO DESCRIBED IN FEB 72 AS A 1ST CLASS DETECTIVE WHO ENTERED THE SERVICE IN 1954.

3) NO STATION TRACES ALFREDO VILLAVACA.

4) THERE ARE SEVERAL PARACHUTE CLUBS IN SANTIAGO, BUT WE HAVE NOT YET IDENTIFIED ONE CALL "LOS SCORPIONES."

5) THIS PROBABLY A REFERENCE TO TOBALABA AIR STRIP, WHICH LOCATED ON SOUTHERN OUTSKIRTS OF SANTIAGO.

6) NO TRACES ON CAPTAINS JUAN WILLIAMS OR ALEJANDRO ROVEAL IN ADDITION TO THOSE PASSED YOU DURING YOUR RECENT VISIT HERE.

CROSS FILE COPY FOR 201-284811
DO NOT DESTROY

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED
ACTION UNIT

T 122443
EI A3 82
PAGE 02
IN 38 5643
TOR: 2621232 AUG 77
SAGO 37215

2. STATION CAN QUERY SOURCE FORMERLY IN DINA FOR INFO ABOVE NAMED PERSONS, BUT AT SOME SLIGHT RISK OF ALERTING GOC TO USG INTEREST. PLS ADVISE IF YOU WOULD LIKE US TO MAKE THIS QUERY.

3. FILE: 201-284811. E2 IMPDET

HOJA DE INDENTIFICACION PERSONAL

NUMERO 2731
Fecha de Nacimiento 18 Abril de 1941
Natural Mariana, Pinar del Rio - Habana
Fecha integro el grupos Sept. 1950
Especialista Oficina y armas cortas, pistola y revolver.
Nombre de sus Sres. Padres Rolando y Margot.
Nombre de su Sra. Esposa No.
Otros Observaciones: 1) ler. ano de Bachillerato, Restaurants 2 meses y bar de su padre 5 meses, Ayustamiento de Mariano 2 meses en 1957, Nov. 19 legal a cabo Russo
2) Catolica; 3) Ninguna 4) Gobierno que respeta el derecho de los ciudadanos y lleva (economia) Economia desarrollada al maximo 6) Ejercito, Aviacion Militar.
Directamente Kimi.

CLASMAROW REVIEW
Conducted On 22 mar 77

No. 2731
Nombre Otero Hernández Rolando
Estatura 5.8
Peso 150
Color Ojos Castaña Partes color del Pele Negro
Cicatricos visibles ninguna

RECORD DENTAL:
1 - 2 - 3 - 4 - 5 - 6 - 7 - 8 - 9 - 10 - 11 - 12 - 13 - 14 - 15 - 16
32 - 31 - 30 - 29 - 28 - 27 - 26 - 25 - 24 - 23 - 22 - 21 - 20 - 19 - 18 - 17
Dedos pulgaross Izquierdo Derecho

CLASIFICATION REVIEW
Conducted On 22 MAR 77

NAME: Rolando OTERO Hernandes
FILE: 2731
UNIT: 3264
COMMENTS: Airborne
SEATUR: Captured

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW
Cost: 22 Mar 77
CONFIDENTIAL

OTHERS
PETSAID 15 7771

HOJA DE INDENTIFICACION PERSONAL

NUMERO 2731
NOMBRE Y APELLIDOS Rolando Otero Hernandes
FECHA Y LUGAR DE NACIMIENTO 18 Abril 1941 Mariana Habana
ESTADO CIVIL SOLTERO
EDUCACION QUE POSEE GRADUADO PARA 10th GRADO - ALGUNA EXP EN OFICINA
PROFESION ESTUDIANTE
OTRAS APTITUDES EXP - COMERCIO poco INGLES - SE MANEJAR CARRO
EXPERIENCIA MILITAR Ninguna
FECHA DE SALIDA DE CUBA Y VIA QUE UTE.IZO (Ponga si salio logal o ilegal-
19 noviembre 1959 Key West- ELORIDA. LEGAL
FECHA DE LLEGADA A LOS ESTADOS UNIDOS Y EN QUE CONDICIONES LEGALES VIVIA ALLI
19-Noviembre 1959 - VIA LEGAL DE MEST - VISA DE ESTUDIANTE
INFORMACION DE UTILIDAD SOBRE COSAS QUE SEPA DE SU PAIS CONOCIMIETOS
de la cuidad de Pinar del Rio, y sus brista MILITARES
CARRETERAS ALREDEDORES, PLANTA ELECTRICA ets, ha
CARRETERAS. INTRE LEDORE
crsidad is " Maria" "ESTACIONES POLICIACAS etc:
ARRoya ARENAS, LA HABANA CENTRES principales EN PARTE

CLASIFICATION REVIEW
Conducted On 22 Mar 77

NUMERO 2771
PELOTON Y TEAM A
FECHA DE NACIMIENTO 18 Abril 1941
NATURAL Marianar del Rio Habana.
FECHA INTEGRO EL GRUPO Sept 1950
ESPECIALISTA Oficina
NOMBRE SUS SRS. PADRES Rolandi y Margot
NOMBRE SU SRA. ESPOSA No
NOMBRE Y EDAD SUS HIJOS No

AQUI SE PONDRA LAS VECES QUE HA SIDO JUZGADO

OTRAS OBSERVACIONES

FBI DOCUMENT

DATE: 13 JANUARY, 1977
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: COORDINATION OF UNITED REVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATIONS (CORU)

FBI FILE NO: 2-471 (MIAMI)

SECRET

THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CONCERNING THE SUBJECT OF THIS 201 DOSSIER HAS BEEN EXTRACTED FROM ANOTHER OFFICIAL DO FILE. PERSONS PERFORMING NAME TRACES ARE CAUTIONED THAT THE DOCUMENT FROM WHICH THIS EXTRACT HAS PREPARED CONTAINS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE SUBJECT AND SHOULD BE REQUESTED FROM IP/FILES.

201-0224311
201-0742365

LOC USA, FLA, MIAMI. SUBJ AF 201-0945645 LIST DE CORU WARS COORDINATION OF UNITED REVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATIONS IN TOUCH IN MIAMI

201-284811
E2 IMPDET CL BY 054979

CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET
(When Filled In)

Review of 201 File on U.S. Citizen
14 Dec 76

In accordance with the DDO's notice of 9 December 1974, I have reviewed the 201 file on OTERO, (surname) (201 number indicated below), and have determined that it can most accurately be categorized as indicated below:

Should be closed. (If this category applies, affix Records Officer stamp.)

Unwitting collaborator. OI Code A7. Explanation:

Witting collaborator. OI Code A1.

Potential witting collaborator; date opened: OI Code A2.

Former witting collaborator (relationship terminated). OI Code A3.

Potential witting collaborator never contacted. OI Code A4.

Counterintelligence case (i.e., involving a foreign intelligence or security service). OI Code A5.

All others. OI Code A6.

Signed P. Gresh
(name) (title)
This assignment of category has been entered into STAR.

Signed 2m
(initials)

This document is a permanent part of this file. 201-

E2 IMPDET CL BY 061475

201 PERSONALITY FILE ACTION REQUEST
(Please Type)

TO: IP/DMS Room CA-20 Tube Address: DW-6
FROM: 1. D
MOVA
LAN

2. Supplementary Explanatory Notes For Those Items with An Asterisk (*) Following the Item Number Are Contained On the Reverse Side

OFFICE DESIGNATION (05-6540)
DATE 9677
PHONE
TUBE ADDRESS (IP Use Only)
HOLD UNRESTRICTED 14 SP/CEU
OPEN 201 FILE
TYPE OF FILE CONTROL
HOLD 14 IP/CAU GIT OFSTRICT TO DESK
TYPE OF ACTION
TO DESK
AMEND 201
(Select Only One)
(Select Only One)
PERMANENTLY CHADLE
ADD CRYPTONYM
3. OINTER COSPTUNY (9) ONLY 15 SUPERSEDED CASPI
TO DESK
CRYPTOPEN ACTION HAS BEEN INDICATED
15 ITEM 1,
NEO COVPTONUM
CANCEL COMPTONUM
4.
Tove Mat (LAST) (First) AT (Middle)
B. 201 NUMBER
-
G. NAME VARIANTS AND TELECODES (For Type. Use A For Alias. V For Variant or AKA. Por Haiden)
TYPE: (LAST, ) (First) (Middle)
7. SEX 8. DATE OF DIDTH. 9. COUNTRY. PROVINCE. CITY/TOON OF DIR
IF CIRCA CHECE 90%
DAT MOOTH YEAR 10. CITIZENSHIP
(IP Uso Only) 11. OCCUPATION
U.S. NATALIZIN
12. INTELLIGENCE AFFILIATION(S) OF TARGET ORGANIZATION(3)
15. COUNTRY OF LOCATION 13. 01 CODE(S)
14. ACTION DES
JF Loo Only) 10. 10TEREST DESA
17. CITE FIELD ADDRESSEES TO RECEIVE INDER CARDO, 10. DOCUMENT SYMBOL.
(IP Uoo Only)) CODE
(IP Uoo Only) CODE
(IP Uoo Only) HUMBER DATE
DAY
YP 10. DESIDENCE GIVED IN OPENING DOCUMENT
10. SUMMARY TEXT FOR INDER DECODDS.
(100ort additional identifying and descriptive doto. Do not includo Cepploagoo. record docirod, provido opouso Dio dota Doro procodod by "Cudo B.")
11 000000
1. SIGNATURE OF DEQUESTED 22. SIGNATURE OF DIN STAFF COPS. 09
MIGHED AUTHORITY (SUBJECT US CITIZED 83. 201 GUNDER
I
0-19
**** 831...
NATIO
SECRET 18. - FOLT CL. BY: 00000P
(30-01)

OUTGOING MESSAGE

PRIORITY SANTIAGO INFO SAN JOSE, CARACAS.

ON 12 NOVEMBER 1976 THE "WASHINGTON POST" PUBLISHED AN ARTICLE BY JOE CRANKSHAW IN MIAMI WHICH REPORTED THAT FBI HAD BEEN TOLD OF A DINA PLOT TO USE CUBAN EXILES TO KILL LUIS ANDRES PASCAL ALLENDE AND ANNE MARIE BEAUSIRE. FOLLOWING ARE EXCERPTS FROM ARTICLE:

RICARDO MORALES, A VENEZUELAN INTEL OFFICIAL, REPORTED TO FBI THAT HE HAD BEEN TOLD OF A PLOT TO KILL PASCAL AND BRUSSIER BY ROLANDO OTERO. ACCORDING TO OTERO, HE WENT TO SANTIAGO IN EARLY FEBRUARY AND IDENTIFIED HIMSELF TO DINA OFFICIALS AS A FUGITIVE FROM THE U.S. AT DINA HQS, OTERO SAID HE WAS TOLD THAT THE SECRET POLICE SUPPORT THE CUBAN EXILES' CAUSE AND WOULD PROVIDE FUNDS AND ARMS FOR THEM IN RETURN FOR A "FAVOR." THE FAVOR WAS TO KILL PASCAL AND BRUSSIER IN COSTA RICA BEFORE 22 FEBRUARY 1976. OTERO QUOTED DINA SPOKESMEN AS SAYING BOSCH WOULD BE BACKUP IF OTERO FAILED IN THE MISSION. ACCORDING TO OTERO, HE REFUSED TO DO THE "FAVOR, LEFT CHILE AND TOLD MORALES. HE THEN RETURNED TO SANTIAGO AND WAS ARRESTED TWO WEEKS LATER.

BOSCH WAS ARRESTED ON 19 FEBRUARY ENTERING COSTA RICA WITH A FALSE PASSPORT AND CHARGED WITH PLOTTING TO KILL SECRETARY OF STATE HENRY KISSINGER, PASCAL AND BRUSSIER. NO TRIAL WAS HELD AND BOSCH WAS LATER DEPORTED. HE RETURNED TO SANTIAGO AND APPARENTLY REMAINED THERE UNTIL GOING TO CARIBBEAN TO ORGANIZE CORU.

C. INFO ON THIS ALLEGED DINA-CUBAN EXILE CONSPIRACY WAS SUPPRESSED DURING THE SEPTEMBER 76 FEDERAL BOMBING TRIAL OF OTERO IN JACKSONVILLE. WHEN OTERO STARTED TO TESTIFY ABOUT HIS ACTIVITIES IN CHILE, GOVT PROSECUTORS OBJECTED THAT INFO WAS IMMATERIAL TO BOMBING CHARGES. OTERO WAS FOUND INNOCENT. HIS TRIAL ON RELATED STATE CHARGES WAS TO BEGIN IN MIAMI ON MONDAY (6 NOV) BUT WAS ORDERED POSTPONED UNTIL EARLY 1977.

D. OTERO HAD LIVED IN FLORIDA UNTIL LATE DECEMBER 1975 WHEN HE WAS TOLD BY FBI INFORMANT THAT FBI WAS PREPARING TO HAVE HIM INDICTED ON BOMBING CHARGES. OTERO THEN WENT TO DOMINICAN REPUBLIC WHERE HE WAS ARRESTED AND PAROLED. WHEN MIAMI FEDERAL GRAND JURY RETURNED INDICTMENTS AGAINST OTERO, HE FLEW TO CARACAS WHERE STAYED WITH MORALES. INFO IN REPORTS ALLEGES THAT OTERO WAS TOLD THAT IF VENEZUELAN AUTHORITIES MOVED TO ARREST HIM, HE COULD RECEIVE ASYLUM WITH NEW CHILEAN AMBASSADOR. WHILE IN CARACAS, OTERO ALLEGEDLY TOLD MORALES THAT HE HAD COMMITTED THE BOMBINGS IN MIAMI AND MORALES PASSED THIS INFO TO FBI.

2. MUCH OF INFO ON PLOT TO KILL PASCAL AND BRUSSIER APPARENTLY TAKEN FROM 25 FEBRUARY 1976 FBI REPORT WHICH COULD COME FROM MORALES. MORALES WAS SOURCE OF NUMEROUS SECRET SERVICE REPORTS DURING KISSINGER VISIT TO CARACAS IN FEBRUARY 76 ON REPORTED ATTEMPT BY BOSCH TO KILL KISSINGER. ONE SECRET SERVICE REPORT INDICATED THAT MORALES HAD PROVIDED CARACAS LEGAL ATTACHE WITH RELIABLE INFORMATION IN THE PAST.

3.A. FILE: 201-284811, 201-299292. E2 IMPDET.

DATE: 12 NOVEMBER 1976
MARY GINN

OUTGOING MESSAGE

PRIORITY SANTIAGO

SECRET- WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND MCTHODS INVOLVED-HOT RELEATAGLE TO FORETGN NATIONALS

CIR-311/04246-76

SUBJECT: REQUEST FOR INFORMATION WHICH MAY HAVE BEEN OBTAINED BY FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION DURING INTERROGATION OF ROLANDO OTERO HERNANDEZ IN MAY 1976

1. THIS AGENCY WOULD APPRECIATE ANY PERTINENT INFORMATION REG