```markdown
14-20000 ™
[2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/ VOLUME: POSADA, LUIS CLEMENTE
201-300985
VOL. III

INCLUSIVE DATES: 
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: ROOM:
DELETIONS, IF ANY: THIRD AGENCY DOCUMENTS

DATE DATE
RECEIVED RETURNED REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

---

14-00000
Volume
closed
file in Vol TV

---

14-00000
SECRET
THIS SENT TO BE KEPT ON T
IT SHOULD ALWAYS BE TH
AGENT CHECK LIST

AGENT PSEUDO OR CRYPT
WKSCARLET-5
17 January 1972
POA
PRQ
9 March 1972
PRQ II
16 March 1972
COA
17 July 1972
MOC
1 February 1969
(Current)

PHOTO
AGENT PIN.

BRIEF PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION OF AGENT:
5'11", 175 pounds, black hair, green eyes. Erect posture.
has scar on palm of right hand.

ADDRESS:
HOME
Quinta Janet, Ave. Los Caribes, El Llanito, Caracas (Rent)
OFFICE WKSCARLET hos.
TELEPHONE: HOME 38 52 37 OFFICE
REGULAR CONTACT PROCEDURE:
Agent contacts the C/O by phone either at the office or at the C/O's home and
the meeting is set up by the hour agreed upon at the Safe House.

RE-CONTACT PLAN:
The agent will recontact the C/O through the above procedure. The C/O can call the
agent between 1900 and 2000 daily by Pagessy. Tel # 62.03.41/5 No. C 857. The agent
will then call the C/O at home.

EMERGENCY CONTACT PLAN: (To include meeting site, if possible a
double-talk description which agent will immediately recognize.
Please include all aliases used and circumstances under which
each used.)

The agent will call the Embassy and request "Eduardo", the new C/O will state that
he is a friend of Eduardo and that they can meet at the usual place at 6
hours. This means the Safe House. The agent will call in response to the Price y Pizzor. The
agent should not be contacted at home unless the C/O is fluent in Spanish. If so
the story again is that the C/O is a friend of "Eduardo" and that a meeting at the
usual place is requested.

SECRET
THIS GREEN SHEET INVALID AFTER 30 JUNE 1973
(and is to BE ARBED BY SPLES TRANSMISSION ficer)
NO FIELD DISSEMINATION

---

14-00000
CABLE SEC DISSEM.
PERSONNEL
AUTICS
3/108
ACTIONS
570
213859
SECRET
WH T
TOTAL COPIES
SECRE↑
FILE.
VR.
C/IP/AN, C/C1, C/FI, C/NARC
DSECURITY
PAGE 41-02
TBRI8413482 MAY 73
413432 MAY 73 STAFF
21054
CITE JARACHE 21834
TOIMEDATE DIRECTOR
RYGAŤ WKRALLY WKSCARLET
REF DIRECTOR 423768
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
AGENCY MESSAGE
-IN 96533
CARA
21864
SIE & CONY FIR
ME, FLEASE.
THANK YOU;
1. STEMERMAN HAS RESERVATIONS HOTEL CONTINENTAL
ALTAMIRA. LA CASTELLANA,
2. FILE: 75-2-16/3, 201-300985' E2 IMPDET
STEMERMAN'S SECRETARY NOTIFIED
ON
4 May 1973.
SECRET
CURONO
4 May 73
Jol. 300985

---

14-00000
OUTSO
MESSAGE
19:2
A
Азе
OMF 0
0
SECRET
STAFF
COMF:
INFO: FILE
0 No mass
Pro K11/3/
J741
OU
Gno
DESA DE
DIRECTOR
397839
DISSEM BY:
PB/38
ERSP = 103"
RYBAT PLYHABYSS WRRALLY WKSCARLET
REF: CARACAS 21722 (IN 891871*)
Vennisa sery
THANK YOU
Lille
FIRME PLEASE
NO HQS TRES DOMINGO-OBRERO OR "GUAJIRO" T OR RE S.
RONALD COỒN DON PROBABLY IEDENTICAL RONALDOM
CONDON GIL, BROTHER FRANCISCO CONDOM GIL, AKA FRANK
CONDON. WAS NEXSER BRIGADE 2506. ARRIVED MIAMI WITH RANSOMED
BRIGADE MEMBERS DECEMBER 1962. NO CURRENT INFO ON FILE.
3. SYLA CUERVO POSSIBLY IDENTICAL SYLA ROQUE CUERVO
CASTILLO, CUBAN EXILE NOW LIVING MIANI. SUBJECT BORN 29
OCTOBER 1920 SAN LUIS, PINAR DEL RIO, CUBA. ATTORNEY IN MINISTRY
OF LABOR AND MINISTRY OF TRANSPORTATION 1945-57. WAS ANTI-
BATISTA ACTIVITS, LATER JOINED VARIOUS EXILE GROUPS TO FIGHT
CASTRO. CLAIMS TO HAVE BEEN MEMBER BRIGADE 2506, ALTHOUGH NAME
NOT ON HIST THOSE CAPTURED AT PLAYA GIRON. CUERVO WAS
ACCUSED OF BEING LEADER OF GROUP MAKING "ANTI-U.S., PRO-NAZI, PRO-SOCIALIST:
PRO-COMMUNIST" STATEMENTS WHILE SECOND LIEUTENANT IN U.S. ARMY
DATE:
ORIG:
CONTINUED....
UNIT:
EXT:
LAG OFFICES
O OFFICERS
CLALDICATION
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
CHRONO
dating artus, & fi
E 2
CL BY: 1
IMPDET
18 apul 73.
201-3009851

---

14-00000
OUTGO! MESSAGE
SIGNAL CENTER
SECRET:
SENSE
COMF:
INFO: FILE
Van 0
Dawe SA
DIRECTOR
397839
DISSEM BY:
PB/38
CUBAN OFFICERS' TRAINING PROGRAM AT FORT BENNING DURING
1963-64. WAS LATER DESCRIBED AS ANTI-COMMUNIST BUT NOT PRO-U.S.,
AND AS OPPORTUNIST", NO MENTION IN HIS FILE OF GAS STATION
OR NARCOTICS INVOLVEMENT.
4. INDEX OBRERO, TORRES, CONDON, FILE 75-2-16/3, 201-
0300943, 201-0300985, E2 IMPDET.
END OF MESSAGE.
* Requested traces on subjects whom suspected narcotics trafficker
WKSCARLET-3 may have contacted in Miami 9-10 March 1973.
DATE: 18 April 1973
ORIG: Robert J. Austin
UNIT: W/3/e
EXT: 7271
C/SHD, Cearorcstwe Cro aens Outed erga: we OFOER
SECRET
E 2 IMPDET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
Cl BY: 064566

---

14-0000
SECRET
Chief, Wi Division
INFO
FROM
SUBJECT
Chiefs of Station, Buenos Aires, WH/Miami, Bogota & Rome
Chief of Station, Caracas
PEMASYSS/Luis Clemente POSADA Carriles
ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES
Reference: CARACAS-21349, 8 March 1973
PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
EUROHUB
1. Forwarded herewith is a copy of BNDD Report of Investigation
written by Jose A. MARIN, S/A assigned to the Miami Regional Office,
on 5 February 1973. The report concerns Luis Clemente POSADA Carriles,
aka "Babi and Humberto TRUEVA. CIT: CUBA AFRO MIAMI
REPORTED NARCOTIC TRAFFIC CONTACT IN USH OF SUBIET OF 201-030045 PEENDA.
2. Also forwarded is a copy of BNDD Caracas telegram 1686 of 26
February 1973 concerning POSADA; BNDD Hqs telegram 1554 of 12 March
1973 concerning the implication of POSADA as a narcotics trafficker and
his recent travel from Caracas; and BNDDilqs telegram 1602 of 8 March
1973 which summarizes the surveillance of POSADA and Camilo Vicente
CUSATI Cusati while the latter two were in Miami.
Attachment:
1. BNDD Report of Investigation, hw
E 2 IMPOSSIBLE TO DETERMINE
2. Three (3) Telegrams, hw
Distribution:
-3 - C,WID w atts
2 - COS, Buenos Aires, w atts
2 - COS, WH/Miami w atts
1 - COS, Bogota w atts
1 - COS, Rome w atts
19286
15 March 1973
CLASSIFICATION
RYBAT
SECRET
HOS FILE NUMBER
201-3000RS

---

14-00000
ATT 1
STATE
8 MAR 73
SECRET
2B-73-0001 LUIS POSADA CROSS FILE WITH HUMBERTO TRUEVA, GF
CARACAS 1981
ATT 2
DEA
12 MARCH 73
LIMITED OFFICIAL USE
LUIS POSADA AKA BAMBI BB-73-0001
BNDD1554
ATTS TO HVCA-19281

---

14-0000
DEA
12 MARCH 73
CONFIDENTIAL
LUIS POSADA AKA BAMBI 2B-73-0001
BNDD 1585 (MIAMI)

---

14-00000
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT
FILE, VR
ACTION NO
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
(When Filled In)
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
ROUTING AND OR INITIALS-SEEN BY
7
8
INTEL ZRWAHOO
SUPDATA ZRWAHOO FOR HEADQUARTERS LIMITED DISTRIBUTION
SIMILAR TO THAT OF HVC-6539. SOURCE: WKRALLY/
WKSCARLET-3 WHO IS HEADING THE TEAM. KNOWN TO
LIMITED NUMBER OF LIAISON OFFICIALS. NO INDEX.
THIS REPORT NOT COORDINATED WITH EMBASSY. CL BY
MICHAEL C. CHOADEN.
FILED: 920102
SHAVED TO CiviZcu pen Dig BEB8I2-
IW COMMENT: WHEN DISSEMINATED ADO CA, CI, CI/PS, CI/OPS, CI/IC AND SOD.
File: WKSCARLET-3
SECRET

---

14-00000
SECRET
CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY
INTELLIGENCE INFORMATION CABLE
DATE 10 MARCH 1973
IN 855811
PAGE 1 OF 3 PAGES
The following Intelligence information, transmitted from a CIA Field Station, requires review within the Clandestine Service be
fore being released outside the Agency. Pending results of this review, a copy is being provided for your advance information
THIS INFORMATION IS NOT TO BE INCLUDED IN ANY OTHER DOCUMENT OR PUBLICATION
DISTRIBUTION TO SDO
COUNTRY
VENEZUELA/COLOMBIA
DOI
EARLY MARCH 1973
SUBJECT
VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT DECISION TO CONDUCT
PROTECTIVE RATHER THAN INTELLIGENCE-GATHERING
OPERATIONS AT THE NEXT ROUND OF BORDER TALKS
BETWEEN COLOMBIAN AND VENEZUELA
ACQ
VENEZUELA, CARACAS FIELD NO. HVC-6597
(9 MARCH)
SOURCE
AN EXPERIENCED POLICE INVESTIGATOR WHOSE POSITION
GIVES HIM ACCESS TO INFORMATION ON MATTERS AFFECTING
THE INTERNAL SECURITY OF VENEZUELA. HE REPORTS
WITHOUT THE KNOWLEDGE OF HIS SUPERIORS. HIS
INFORMATION HAS BEEN FREQUENTLY CONFIRMED BY
INDEPENDENT SOURCES.
1. THE VENEZUELAN. GOVERNMENT HAS DECIDED NOT TO
E2 IMPDET CL BY 007622
SECRET
SECRET

---

14-0000
EDITIONS
855811
TDCS
WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED
PAGE 3 OF 3 PAGES
SECRET
(classification)
(dissem controls)
DISIP IS NO LONGER WELL EQUIPPED TO CONDUCT TECHNICAL
OPERATIONS BECAUSE THE DIRECTOR OF DISIP IN A FIT OF PIQUE
RECENTLY REPLACED THE MOST QUALIFIED DISIP TECHNICIAN,
THEREBY SERIOUSLY DAMAGING DISIP'S CAPABILITIES IN THIS
FIELD.) (FIELD COMMENT: HVC-6508, CSCI-316/00162-73, FROM
THIS SOURCE, GIVES BACKGROUND ON THE CODE OFFICER CASE.
HVC-6439, CSCI-316/00333-73, FROM THIS SOURCE, REPORTS
THE PREVIOUS VENEZUELAN PLAN TO MONITOR THE COLOMBIAN
DELEGATION.)
2. FIELD DISSEM: EMBASSY AT CARACAS. SENT TO
BOGOTA, ROME.
REPORT CLASS
SECRET/WARNING NOTICE-SNESITIVE INTELLIGENCE
SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED/NO FOREIGN DISSEM/
CONTROLLED DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD
CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. EXEMPT FROM GENERAL
DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE OF E.O. 11652 EXEMPTION CATEGORY
5B(2). IMPOSSIBLE TO DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICATION.
SECRET

---

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED
ADVANCE COPY
☐
ISSUED
SLOTTED
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
(When Filled in)
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY
S
6
7
8
DISSEN BY
ACTION UNIT
FILE, VR
ACTION NO
427
PER
RYBAT
PLINABYSS WKRALL WXSCARLET
REFS A. DIRECTOR 379454 KNOT SENT -BUEWOS: AIRES, BOGOTA)
B. CARACAS 21349 KNOT SENT BOGOTA) (-854073,
C. CARACAS 21298 (NOT SENT BUENOS AIRES, BOGOTA) (839442)
1. SUBSEQUENT REF C-LNAGON CARACAS REQUESTED VE
CONCERNED POSSIBILITY THAT EXPOSURE OUR KNOWLEDGE OF
ACTIVITIES WKSCARLET-3 AND HIS NARCOTICS ASSOCIATED COULD
PREJUDICE ONGOING INVESTIGATION, POSSIBLY COMPROMISE
THEIR SOURCES, AND PRECLUDE FULLER DEVELOPMENT OF HWHAT
COULD BE EVEN MORE REWARDING INVESTIGATION. ALL
FOREGOING BASED ON ASSUMPTION THAT WKSCARLET-3 COULD REACT
NEGATIVELY TO CONFRONTATION, REFUSE TO COOPERATE, OR,
PRETEND TO BE COOPERATIVE BUT CONTINUE HIS ILLICIT NARCOTICS ACTIVITIES.
SUCH FOREWARNING COULD CAUSE HE AND HIS ASSOCIATES TO GO UNDER GROUND,
OR AT LEAST BE MORE CIRCUMSPECT IN THEIR ACTIVITIES AND
CONTACTS, THUS MAKING INVESTIGATION MORE DIFFICULT.
201-300985
13 MAR 1973
SECRET

---

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
(When Filled in)
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY
S
6
7
8
DISSEN BY
ACTION UNIT
FILE, VR
ACTION NO
1428
PER
PAGE 2 CARACAS 21369 SECRET
2. WKSCARLET-3, ACCORDING LNAGON, SLATED TAKE OVER NARCOTICS.
NETWORK FORMERLY HANDLED BY LUIS PORFIRIO HERNANDEZ,
NOW INCARCERATED AND EUGENIO LEAL, POZO, NOW IN A NIAMI JAIL.
BY NOT ALERTING WKSCARLET-3 THAT WE AVARE HIS ACTIVITIES AND
LETTING HIM CONTINUE HIS ACTIVITIES UNSUSPECTING WE ARE ON TO
HIM, LNAGON HOPES THIS WOULD LEAD US TO EVEN BIGGER FISH,
SUCH AS A SOURCE OF SUPPLY.
3. STATION WELL AWARE DANGERS TO BKHERALD IN
CONTINUING RUN AGENT SUCH AS WKSCARLET-3, HOWEVER, TO
FURTHER INVESTIGATION CURRENT DRUG CASE WOULD LIKE ACCOMMODATE
LNAGON CARACAS AND THUS PLAN HOLD OFF CONFRONTING WKSCARLET-3
UNTIL LATTER'S RETURN FROM ROME. AT THAT TIME WILL REVIEW
STATUS OF CASE WITH LNAGON CARACAS AND MAKE DETERMINATION
THEN REGARDING TIMING CONFRONTATION. THIS CONNECTION REQUEST
HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS AND GUIDANCE REGARDING BALANCE OF
EQUITIES INVOLVED FOR LNAGON, BKHERALD, AND OVERALL ANTI
NARCOTICS EFFORT; STERILIZED SUBSTANCE OF ABOVE PARAGRAPHS
COORDINATED IN DRAFT WITH LNAGON.
4. FILE: 201-300985. E2 IMPDET.
SECRET

---

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
TOTAL COPIES
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY
S
6
7
8
DISSEN BY
ACTION UNIT
FILE, VR
ACTION NO
351
PER
SECRET 982116Z MAR 73 STAFF
CITE CARACAS 21349 (IN 854092)
TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR INFO PRIORITY WH/MIAMI ROUTINE BUENOS AIRES,
ROME.
RYBAT PLNHABYSS WKRALLY
REFS A. CARACAS 21298 (NOT SENT BUENOS AIRES, ROME)
B. CARACAS 21242 (NOT SENT BUENOS AIRES, WH/MIAMI)
1. WKSCARLET-3 DEPARTING FOR ROME 8 MARCH VIA PUERTO
RICO AND MIAMI, THEN CATCHING FLIGHT FROM NEW YORK TO ROME.
LNAGON HAS BEEN ADVISED OF HIS TRAVEL AND INSTITUTING
SURVEILLANCE ENROUTE. LNAGON HAS NOT SEEN TOLD REASON
HIS TRAVEL OTHER THAN THAT IT ON OFFICIAL VENEZUELAN GOVT
BUSINESS.
2. ASSUME POSSIBILITY THAT WKSCARLET-3 MAY BE MAKING
NARCOTICS CONTACTS PUERTO RICO, WHERE HE OVERNIGHTING,
AND MIAMI, WHERE HE WILL SPEND AT LEAST A FEW HOURS.
LNAGON NOT PLANNING ANY ENFORCEMENT ACTION AS LACK SUFFICIENT
EVIDENCE PLUS FACT WKSCARLET-3 TRAVELING DIPLOMATIC PASSPORT.
3. FOR ROME, BUENOS AIRES: WKSCARLET-3 IS UNILATERAL
STATION PENETRATION OF LIAISON WHOM WE STRONGLY
CS COPY
SECRET
201-300985
05 MAR 1973

---

14-0000
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
PAGE 2 CARACAS 21349 SECRET
SUSPECT INPLICATED IN ILLEGAL NARCOTICS,
IF ALLEGATIONS CORRECT, HE WILL BE TREATED FORTHWITH
BUT GIVEN OPPORTUNITY AT SAME TO BE LNAGON AGENT.
LNAGON IS INVESTIGATING ACTIVITIES AND CONTACTS OF WKSCARLET-3
AND IS AWARE BKHERALD HAS "OPERATIONAL INTEREST" IN
WRSCARLET-3.

---

ROBERT J. WEATHERWAX
UNIT UH/3/V
EXT 1535
DATE 13 MARCH 73
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
CONFI
MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
INDEX ☐ NO INDEX
RETURN TO
BRANCH
FILE IN CS FILE NO.
FILE VR
(classification)
SECRET
CITE DIRECTOR
TO: CARACAS WH/MIAMI
RYBAT PLNHABYSS UKRALLY WKSCARLET
REF: CARACAS 21298 IN 848386)
1. CONCUR WITH PARA 4 REF A REQUEST.
2. RECENT LNFALL TRAFFIC FROM BOGOTA SAYS COLOMBIAN-VENEZUELA
BORDER TALKS WILL RESUME IN ROME 12 MARCH 73. DOES WKSCARLET-3
STILL PLAN TO GO TO ROME? IF SO, WHAT IS TIMING HTS TRIP AND HOW
DOES IT AFFECT STATION PLAN TO CONFRONT HIM?
3. FILE 201-300985. E2 IMPDET.
*REQUESTS AUTHORITY FROM HEADQUARTERS FOR WH/MIAMI TO TELL BNDD OF OUR
INTEREST IN WKSCARLET-3 AND REQUEST ALL THE INFORMATION THAT BNDD HAS
ON HIM. IN THE PLANNED CONFRONTATION WITH WKSCARLET-3, CARACAS
STATION WOULD APPRECIATE ALL POSSIBLE AMMUNITION AVAILABLE.
C/WH/NARC EDWARD ANDERSON (TELECOORD)
DDP/NARCOG STAN ARCHENHOLD (TELECOORD)
C/WH/COG Lawrence Sternfield (Telecoord)
RICHARD L. CONOLLY
THEODORE G. SHACKLEY
C/WHD
CS COPY
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER
COPY NO.

---

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
(When Filled in)
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY
S
6
7
8
DISSEN BY
ACTION UNIT
FILE, VR
ACTION NO
SECRET 2160 WAR 73 STAFF
CITE CARACAS 21298)
TO: DIRECTOR, WH/MIAMI
RYBAT PLNHABYSS WKRALLY WASCARLET
REFS: A. DIRECTOR 373982
B. CARACAS 212211 839442)
1. NIGHT 28 FEBRUARY STATION VERIFIED CAR DRIVEN BY
WKSCARLET-3 SAME CAR SEEN PER REF B PARA 3D.
2. PER REF A HAVE INFORMED LOCAL LNAGON CHIEF OUR
OPERATIONAL INTEREST WXSCARLET-3 AND STATION PLAN CON-
FRONT LATTER. SHOULD WXSCARLET-3 BE UNABLE REFUTE
ALLEGATIONS, WILL TRY CONVINCE HIM HIS BEST COURSE WOULD
BE COOPERATE WITH LNAGON. IF HE AGREES, WILL ARRANGE
INTRODUCTION CHIEF LOCAL LEAGON WHO HAS ALREADY AGREED
TAKE HIM OVER.
3. TENTATIVELY PLAN CONFRONT WXSCARLET-3 AFTER
RECEIPT LNAGON MEAMREPORT THEIR DEBRIEFING JOSE GOMEZ.
UNFORTUNATELY, GOMEZ IS UNRELIABLE INFORMANT AND WILL PROB-
ABLY WITHHOLD BITAL DETAILS, ESPECIALLY THOSE INVOLVING
WXSCARLET-3. HOWEVER, REPORT WILL HELP TIE THINGS TOGETHER.
291- Yoo Tes
Q2 MAR 1973
SECRET

---

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY
SECRET
(When Filled in)
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
DISSEN BY
ACTION UNIT
FILE, VR
ACTION NO
PAGE 2 CARACAS 21298 SE CR ET
4. AS IN LIGHT WKSCARLET-3'S INVOLVEMENT MHABYSS
SURFACED MIAMI AREA, REQUEST, STATION WH/MIAMI, WITH HOS
CONCURRENCE, BRING TO MIAMI LNAGON ATTENTION OUR OPERATIONAL
INTEREST WKSCARLET-3 AND REQUEST ALL INFORMATION THEY HAVE
ON HIM. IN CONFRONTATION, STATION WOULD APPRECIATE HAVING
ALL POSSIBLE AMM UNIT ZON AVAILABLE.
5. FILE 201-300985. E2 INPDET
SECRET
103/41
U2dUTRNOS
Eledd U2) 12H J

---

ROBERT J. WEATHERWAX
UNIT WH/3/V
EXT 5126/1535
DATE 3 MARCH 1973
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
CONFI
MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
INDEX
☐ NO INDEX
RETURN TO
BRANCH
FILE IN CS FILE NO.
FILE VR
(classification)
SECRET
CITE DIRECTOR
(date and time filed)
(reference number)
373942
TO: CARACAS INFO WH/MIAMI
RYBAT PLMHABYSS UKRALLY WKSCARLET
REF: DIRECTOR 373942
1. PLEASE ADVISE STATUS WKSCARLET-3 CASE.
2. FILE 201-300985. E2 IMPDET.
*SETS FORTH HQS' VIEWS ON HANDLING UKSCARLET-3 CASE.
C/WH/COG LAWRENCE STERNEIELD (TELECORD)
C/WH/NARC EDWARD ANDERSON (TELECOORD)
DDP/NARCOG STAN ARCHENHOLD (TELECOORD)
ROAV-DBCOWWS
14 MAR 1973
THEODORE SHACKLEY
C/WHD
COORDINATING OFFICERS
AUTHENTICATING
RELEASING OFFICER SECRET
APDIR W. SISM
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
COPY NO.

---

28 FEB 73
UNCLASSIFIED
DIFFICULTIES IN SALE OF VOTING MACHINES TO VENEZUELA
MEMO OF CONVERSATION (EMBASSY-CARACAS)

---

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
(When Filled In)
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY
5
6
7
8
DISSEN BY
ACTION UNIT
FILE, VR
ACTION NO
SECRET 222015Z FEB 73 STAFF
CITE CARACAS (21240 CARA
TO: DIRECTOR.
RYBAT
1. WKSCARLET-3 PROVIDED THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION ON
LAWYERS FROM MIAMI, SENT TO HIM BY A CUBAN FRIEND IN MIAMI,
WHO REQUESTED HIS HELP AS A GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL.
2. THE LAWYERS, HEADLEY (FNU) AND SUDDUTH
(FNU), WHOSE ADDRESS IS 1703 FIRST NATIONAL CITY BANK BUILDING
IN MIAMI, WORK FOR VARON, STAHL AND KAY, P.A., ATTORNEYS AND
COUNSELLORS, LOCATED AT 2432 HOLLYWOOD BOULEVARD, HOLLYWOOD,
FLORIDA. THEY ARE REPRESENTING THE INTERESTS OF LLOYD A.
DIXON, JR., AN EMPLOYEE OF THE AVM CORPORATION OF
JAMESTOWN, NEW YORK, WHICH RECENTLY GOT THE US. $20,000,000
CONTRACT FOR THE VOTING MACHINES TO BE USED IN THE DECEMBER
ELECTION. DIXON IS UNDER INVESTIGATION BY THE UNITED STATES
DISTRICT COURT, SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA, MIAMI DIVISION,
BECAUSE OF CHARGES BY EDUARDO BLANCO URIBE AND HANS J.
MAGNIN, APPARENT REPRESENTATIVES OF THE ELECTIONS
SECRET
23 FEB 1973
AT FEBRUARY. HE SAID HE HAD BEEN CONTACTED BY TWO U.S.
201-300985

---

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY
5
SECRET
(When Filled In)
6
7
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
8
DISSEN BY
ACTION UNIT
FILE, VR
ACTION NO
PAGE 2 CARACAS 21240 SECRET
SYSTEMS CORPORATION, A GRAND CAYMAN CORPORATION, WHO ARE
ACCUSING DIXON OF FAILURE TO PAY THEN THEIR FULL COMMISSIONS
IN CONNECTION WITH THE CONTRACT.
3. ACCORDING TO COPIES OF THE FIRST PAGES OF SEVERAL
DOCUMENTS BROUGHT BY THE LAWYERS, THE CHARGES AGAINST DIXON
INCLUDE VIOLATION OF INTERSTATE COMMERCE LAWS
AND BRIBERY OF VENEZUELAN OFFICIALS WHO ALLEGEDLY AGREED
TO ACCEPT PAYMENTS FROM DIXON FOR THEIR HELP IN SECURING THE
CONTRACT.
4. THE FIRST PAGE OF AN AFFADAVIT FILED BY FERNANDO
ZOZAYA ITURBE, THE AVM CORPORATION LAWYER IN VENEZUELA,
STATES THAT ON 3 MAY 1972, ZOZAYA WAS PRESENT WHEN DIXON
TENDERED RELEASES TO BLANCO AND MAGNIN WHICH HAD THE EFFECT
OF FORFEITING ALL THE COMMISSIONS DUE THEM FOR THE SALE OF
THE VOTING MACHINES TO VENEZUELA. BLANCO AND MAGNIN REFUSED
TO SIGN THE RELEASES. DIXON TOLD THEN IT WAS NECESSARY
BECAUSE THE AVM CORPORATION WAS UNDERGOING A GRAND JURY
INVESTIGATION IN BUFFALO, NEW YORK.
5. THE PURPOSE OF LAWYERS HEADLEY AND SUDDUTH IN
CONTACTING WKSCARLET-3 WAS TO OFFER HIM US$5000 TO PRESSURE
SECRET

---

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY
5
SECRET
(When Filled In)
6
7
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
8
DISSEN BY
ACTION UNIT
FILE, VR
ACTION NO
PAGE 3 CARACAS 21240 SECRET
VENEZUELAN LAWYER ZOZAYA INTO SIGNING A DEPOSITION STATING
THAT HE NEVER HEARD DIXON OFFER THE COMISSION TO BLANCO
AND MAGNIN. WXSCARLET-3 REFUSED THE OFFER.
6. LAWYERS GAVE WKSCARLET-3 COPIES OF PERTINENT
DOCUMENTS WHICH HE GAVE TO WKSCARLET-1 AFTER COPYING FIRST
PAGE OF EACH FOR PASSAGE TO STATION. WKSCARLET-1
NOW STUDYING DOCUMENTS WHICH WKSCARLET-3 IS SURE WILL BE
PASSED TO PRESIDENT CALDERA.
7. ONE OF DOCUMENTS TURNED OVER CONTAINS DIXON'S CODE
AS TO WHOM HE HAD OFFERED WHAT. WKSCARLET -3
WAS TOLD THAT MONEY HAD BEEN PAID WITH
EXCEPTION OF MANGIN AND BLANCO. CODE LISTS FOLLOWING:
A. PEOPLES ELECTORAL MOVEMENT (MEP)
US$400,000
B. DEMOCRATIC REPUBLICAN UNION (URD)
US$400,000
C. OMAR RUMBOS, URD LEADER
US$100,000
D. ANTONIO ESPINOZA PRIETO, MEP LEADER
US$100,000
E. DEMOCRATIC ACTION (AD) PARTY
US$470,000
F. MARIO LEONI (STATION UNABLE IDENTIFY BUT
SECRET

---

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY
5
SECRET
(When Filled In)
6
7
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
8
DISSEN BY
ACTION UNIT
FILE, VR
ACTION NO
PAGE 4 CARACAS 21240 SECRET
POSSIBLY RELATION OF LATE RAUL LEONI OF AD)
US$40,000
G. MANGIN
US$760,000
H. BLANCO
US$760,000
8. DEFER TO HEADQUARTERS FOR APPROPRIATE DISSEM OF
ABOVE. AMBASSADOR HAS BEEN BRIEFED AND REQUESTS THAT
INFORMATION BE BROUGHT TO ATTENTION OF ED LITTLE IN
DEPARTMENT OF STATE.
9. FILE: DEFER E2 IMPDET
SECRET

---

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED
SECRET
(When Filled In)
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY
5
6
7
8
DISSEN BY
ACTION UNIT
FILE, VR
ACTION NO
SECRET 222025Z FEB 73 STAFF
CITE CARACAS (21242
TO: ROME INFO DIRECTOR.
RYBAT WKRALLY WKSCARLET
REFS A. DIRECTOR 368236
B. DIRECTOR 367039
C. CARACAS 21122 (IN 826564)
D. HVC 6548, 29 JANUARY 1973
1. DUE UNCERTAINTY NEXT ROUND GULF MARACAIBO TALKS
LOCATION, WKSCARLET-3 HAS NOT YET DEPARTED CARACAS AS
REPORTED REFS. WHEN CITY CHOSEN, POSSIBLY AROUND 1 MARCH,
HE WILL LEAD AUDIO TEAM TO SITE. HE HAS BEEN INSTRUCTED
NOT CONTACT ROME STATION SHOULD THAT CITY BE PICKED.
2 FILE 201-300985. E2 IMPDET
SECRET
2ol- 0 30048’S
CS COPY
SECRET

---

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED
SECRET
(When Filled In)
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY
5
6
7
8
DISSEN BY
ACTION UNIT
FILE