```markdown
14-00000

104-10177-10135 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FORM 2593

CONFIDENTIAL

NOTICE

THIS FILE HAS BEEN PROCESSED AND RETIRED. DO NOT
ADD ANY DOCUMENTS TO THIS FOLDER. FORWARD CS
DOCUMENTS THAT SHOULD BE INCLUDED IN THIS FOLDER
TO RID/RPU GE-58.

NOTICE

CONFIDENTIAL

14-00000

2593

CONFIDENTIAL

NOTICE

THIS FILE HAS BEEN PROCESSED AND RETIRED. DO NOT
ADD ANY DOCUMENTS TO THIS FOLDER. FORWARD CS
DOCUMENTS THAT SHOULD BE INCLUDED IN THIS FOLDER
TO RID/RPU GE-58.

NOTICE

CONFIDENTIAL

14-00000

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATION STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: X-REF TO PROPOSED DOCUMENTS TO
PHILLIPS, DAVID ATLEE 241 FILE.
(THE DOCUMENTS ARE PROJECT
OUTLINE FOLDERS)

INCLUSIVE DATES: 1952 TO 1975

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

REVIEWED BY
(PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL | DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED
Dan Hardway | Dan Hardway | 3/2/78 | 3/2/78

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.

14-00000

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATION STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: X-REF TO PROPOSED DOCUMENTS TO
PHILLIPS, DAVID ATLEE 241 FILE.
(THE DOCUMENTS ARE PROJECT
OUTLINE FOLDERS)

INCLUSIVE DATES: 1952 TO 1975

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

REVIEWED BY
(PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL | DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED
Dan Hardway | Dan Hardway | 3/2/78 | 3/2/78

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.

14-00000

SECURITY INFORMATION

TCS-A-1801

Air Pouch

KAPOK

29 December 1951

Chief, HE

Acting
Chief of Station, Santiago

YACACTUS, Chile.

Fulminator-1's Pro-Forma Contract

References: TCS-7-1465

1.  Attached herewith please find a pro forma contract which has been prepared
    for Fulminater-1's signature. He has stated that he is in agreement with its
    provisions. If this contract is satisfactory please return it for his signature
    at such time as his clearance is obtained.

2.  FULMINATER-1 has shown himself to be very enthusiastic regarding the proposed
    employment with this Organisation and is anxious to start the tasks to be
    assigned to him as soon as his clearance is obtained and the necessary instructions
    are forwarded to this Station.

3.  To carry out the covert propaganda aspect of FULMINATER-1's duties he has
    highly recommended the use of Victor POBLETE Croga. The latter is a Chilean,
    about 53 years of age, who is foreman of FULMINATER-1's printing shop. He also
    lives on the premises and would be the only person who would have to know if the
    presses are used at night. He is not a member of the printers' labor union and
    his past actions have indicated to FULMINATER-1 that he is 100% anti-Communist.
    He has been employed many years by Mackenzie and Co., a British firm which shared
    the print shop facilities with FULMINATER-1's presses. However, FULMINATER-1's
    equipment is entirely separate from Mackenzie's and if the covert work is done
    at night as is anticipated it is FULMINATER-1's opinion that POBLETE could run
    off the work without any possible interference from other individuals. Another
    of POBLETE's advantages is the fact that he is able to perform all the printing
    operations which will be necessary to put out normal propaganda and similar
    material and this would eliminate the need to use other persons in the
    preparation of the propaganda material.

4.  POBLETE has been closely connected with English and Anglo-Chilean officials
    of Mackenzie & Co. for many years but it is believed logical to presume that if
    he is paid generously for his work in this connection, with the understanding
    that the work is of a completely confidential nature and of a long-term basis, that
    he will agree to complete secrecy regarding the work. Amount of payment to
    POBLETE will have to be determined when there is some indication as to the amount
    of work to be done. A local investigation of this person has been initiated and
    the results will be forwarded as soon as possible. No derogatory information
    on this person appears in this Station's files.

5.  In line with the authorisation received in TCS-X-1465, FULMINATER-1 will be

KAPOK

14-00000

SECRET

SECURITY

KAPOK

TCS-A-1801

paid from other operational funds the peso equivalent of his salary beginning
1 January 1952. It was considered necessary to begin his payments as of that
date in order to insure his continued stay in Chile. This Station would
appreciate clarification of PREDICT-Chile to which, according to TCS-7-1465,
this expense could be charged for a limited time.

6.  FULMINATER-1's weekly newspaper is 61% owned by him, and as indicated in
attached contract, he has agreed to keep the paper for at least two years.
The other owner, who has taken no active interest whatsoever in the operation,
management or policies of the paper, apparently plans to sell his share.
The prospective buyer is not known but in any event FULMINATER-1 will retain
the controlling interest.

7.  FULMINATER-1 is willing to spend the necessary time in Washington for
training and will be ready to depart immediately when so advised. However, his
wife is expecting a baby around 30 December 1951 according to her doctor's
calculations, and FULMINATER-1 would prefer to remain in Santiago for at least
a few days after the child is born. He is certain that the birth will take
place within a week's time and it is hoped that his presence in Washington will
not be required prior to 15 January 1952. As a cover story for his trip,
FULMINATER-1 has advised that an option has been bought on one of his plays
and that a trip to New York to discuss the play with the prospective producer
is completely logical. Further, he has an estate in Texas which is in litigation
and which could logically require his presence there. FULMINATER-1 asked that
he be allowed to spend a day or two in Texas either on his trip up or back to
settle this estate and it is recommended that he be allowed to do so in order to
provide his cover story with more basis in fact.

8.  FULMINATER-1 has been told that he must pay United States income tax on his
salary received from this Organization. He is at a loss, however, to know how
this added income can be satisfactorily and securely explained to the Department
of Internal Revenue. In accordance with the contents of Field Regulations 50-13,
this matter is being brought to Headquarters attention with a request for
instructions as to how this matter is to be handled.

Kenneth J. Tendler
Acting Chief of Station

KAPOK

SECURITY

14-00000

Attachment: TCS-A-1801

SECRET

SECURITY

Pro Forma Contract With Fulminator-1

We hereby contract you to perform services as required under the following
conditions:

1.  You agree to remain in Chile for at least two years from the
    date of this contract and you also agree not to sell during
    this period your share of the South Pacific Mail of which, it
    is understood, you are a part owner and maintain the controlling
    interest. (51%)

2.  It is agreed by you that this Organisation will not become
    involved in any way, financially or otherwise, in the South
    Pacific Mail.

3.  You will carry out the duties assigned to you by the
    appropriate official to the best of your ability devoting
    as much time to them as is reasonably possible, taking into
    consideration your obligation to manage the South Pacific
    Mail as the overt reason for your residence in Chile.

4.  You will be paid the sum of U. S. $5,940 per annum for your
    services to this Organization, and you agree, in accordance
    with subsequent instructions, to pay the United States Income
    tax which will be due on this amount. Your salary will be paid
    monthly.

5.  You agree to make yourself available to travel to Washington
    for about a one month's stay to undergo training as required.
    Travel and living expenses during this trip will be paid by
    this Organization. It is not known when this trip will take
    place but it is believed that it will be in the near future.

6.  You will be granted paid vacations during the period of your
    employment in Chile in accordance with applicable Chilean
    laws.

7.  Should local travel be required by this Organization, your
    travel and living expenses while away from Santiago will be
    made available.

8.  Reasonable entertainment expenses, after prior consultation
    with this office, will be reimbursed.

9.  It is agreed by you that you will not expect sick leave
    benefits to accrue to you under the terms of this contract;
    and it is understood that your employment by this Organization
    will not entitle you to retirement and other similar benefits
    of United States Government employees.

10. It is understood by you that the terms of this contract are

SECRET

14-00000

Attachment: TCS-A-1801

-3-

provisional upon the satisfactory clearance of your name by
the appropriate officials.

11. The effective date of this contract is the date on which your
satisfactory clearance is received and the term shall be
indefinite.

12. The termination of this contract may be affected at any time
upon written notice, but without advance notice, by this
Organisation, such termination to be effective upon receipt
of the notice. The termination of this contract will not
release you from any provisions of security oaths which you
may be required to take.

14-00000

SECRET

Project Outline Clearance Sheet

Project Title PB GROVEL Amendment No. Project No.

Developed by: L.E. Patton WHD/OPC 29/1/52

Case Officer Organization Date

Reviewed by: N.M. Siper Feb 52

Foreign Branch Chief Date

Division Chief Date

Concurrences:

WH/CPO 31 Jan '52

OS/O 4 Feb '52

Date Date

Date

Date

Date

Approved subject to conditions below: ADA DE

12 Feb 52

Date

Conditions of approval:

OPC Form No. 1103 (Rev)

23 April 1951

SECRET

14-00000

Project PBGROVEL Amendment No.

PROJECT OUTLINE

Type: Operational

I. AUTHORIZATION

A. Establishment "in the immediate future" of mechanism capable of
conducting psychological and political warfare aimed at the
accomplishment of HD missions (a) and (b) in Chile; as set out
in Section II (paragraph 2.b.) of Annex B to the WHD/OPC Strategic
Plan dated 1 November 1951. This task is assigned priority one in
Phase I (1 Jan - 30 June 52) in the aforementioned Plan.

II. REFERENCES

A. Budgetary data for this Project. (ANNEX A)

B. Field dispatch (TCS-A-1801) outlining the terms of this
Project. (ANNEX B)

C. Headquarters cable authorizing recruitment of FULMINATOR-1
for this Project as a contract agent. (ANNEX C)

III. PROPOSAL

A. Statement

It is proposed to undertake the development in Chile of a group
or committee composed of Chilean nationals which will engage
overtly and actively in anti-Communist work and will function as
a WHD mechanism for the accomplishment of WHD missions (a) and (b)
in Chile, as set forth in Paragraph I above.

As the first step in implementing the development of that committee,
it is proposed to engage the services of a high-calibre American
national in Chile as a contract agent at an annual salary of
$6,000.00 to

1. Spot, recruit, and manage a qualified indigenous Chilean
who will act as organizer of the aforementioned committee,
and

2. Act as cut-out and principal agent for HD, in the
operations of the committee.

At such time as development of the committee warrants, the
necessary steps will be taken to place the committee in the
proper relationship with the DTHABEAS foundation for purposes
of cover and support.

14-00000

IV. RECOMMENDATION

B. Background

The American national in question is a former WHD/OSO
agent (FULMINATOR-1) of proven ability, courage and
discretion.

FULMINATOR-1's present occupation in Santiago, Chile,
provides him with excellent contacts and cover for
carrying out the tasks proposed for him above.

He is part owner of, and holds the controlling interest
(51%) in a Santiago printing and publishing establishment
that publishes an English-language newspaper, The South
Pacific Mail, which FULMINATOR-1 edits. His establishment
is well equipped to handle a great variety of printing
jobs.

C. Current Status

On 23 January 1952, WHD Headquarters authorized its
Santiago Field Station to hire FULMINATOR-1 as a
contract agent for a period of at least two years
(See ANNEXES B and D). In his agent capacity, FULMINATOR-1
will undertake to develop the committee referred to above
in Paragraph A of this Outline.

At such time as that development warrants, an Amendment
to this Project containing a statement of all new require-
ments, will be submitted to competent authority for
approval.

That there be allotted to this Project funds in the amount of
$4,700.00 to provide salary for FULMINATOR-1 for the remainder of
Fiscal Year, to cover the cost of bringing him to Washington for
a period of covert training, provide his per diem allowance while
here, and transport him back to Santiago, Chile following that
training period.

V. OPERATIONAL DETAILS

A. Area of Operation
Chile

B. Operational Control

1. WHD Headquarters will exercise final control of this
Project, and act as its support unit.

14-00000

2. The WHD Field Station, Santiago, Chile, will exercise
field control of Project operations in accordance with
instructions from Headquarters.

C. Personnel Required

One cleared, witting agent to act as Project principal agent
and cut-out (FULMINATOR-1).

D. Communications Plan

Available WHD pouch and cable facilities between Headquarters
and the Santiago Field Station.

E. Support Plan

1. Training

The Project's principal agent will receive approximately
one month of covert training in Washington, D. C., and
return to Chile. All expenses in connection with this
training are to be borne by WHD.

F. Reports Procedure

Progress reports will be submitted to WHD Headquarters by
the Santiago Field Station in accordance with Headquarters
directives.

G. Cover and Security

1. Cover

FULMINATOR-1 will remain in Chile in his present business
position. As a cover story for his trip to Washington for
covert training, FULMINATOR-1 has advised that an option
has been bought on one of his plays and that a trip to
New York to discuss the play with the prospective producer
is completely logical.

2. Security

On 10 January 1952, WHD received an OPC Operational Clearance
on FULMINATOR-1.

14-00000

3. Communications between FULMINATOR-1 and the Santiago
Field Station will at all times be carried on by means
of a secure cut-out.

4. Since FULMINATOR-1's cover is his overt business situation
in which he is already established, and since that situation
provides him with printing and publishing facilities, it is
believed the good operational security can be maintained
with a minimum of effort in this Project.

VI. BUDGET DATA

See ANNEX A. (OPC Form No. 404).

14-00000

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designations should be used in the "TO" column. Under each comment a line should be drawn across sheet
and each comment numbered to correspond with the number in the "TO" column. Each officer should initial (check mark insufficient)
before further routing. This Routing and Record Sheet should be returned to Registry.

FROM: OD/OP/Commo

DATE: 4 February 1952

TO | ROOM NO. | DATE REC'D | DATE FWD'D | OFFICER'S INITIALS
WHD

COMMENTS: Three extra copies attached.

FORM NO. 51-10 SECRET

FEB 1950

14-00000

SECRET

SECURITY INFORMATION

4 February 1952

MEMORANDUM FOR: WHD

SUBJECT: OPC Project PBGROVEL

1.  Subject project has been reviewed by this office and
    no communications facilities beyond those already existing will
    be required in support of the project.

2.  It is intended that this memorandum shall constitute
    the Communications Annex for PBGROVEL.

OD/OF/JLF/mhj

Distribution:

Addressee - orig & 3

OD/OP/Carpenter - 1

OD/OP/Fisher - 2

OD/RE - 2

James L. Fisher
JAMES L. FISHER
OD/OP/Commo

SECURITY INFORMATION

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD 1 May 1952

Meeting with Agent, Paul D. LANGEVIN on 29 April 1952

1.  The sense of the following text was obtained during
    an afternoon meeting with Agent LANGEVIN. Participating in
    the talk were Messrs. Sryser and Patton and Agent LANGEVIN.
    Four major topics were discussed and will be presented here
    in the order in which they were developed.

2.  Printing Plant Problem: Mr. LANGEVIN indicated that
    in two and a half to three months certain financial obliga-
    tions would come due. These consisted entirely in making an
    $8,000 payment arising from the purchase of equipment for his
    printing establishment. This equipment, which cost about
    $10,000 when purchased late in 1951, consists of an Italian-
    made press, linotype machine, Speed Graphic cameras, type,
    etc. The market value of this equipment (partly new and
    partly used) is estimated to be at least $10,000. The sum of
    $8,000 represents the total indebtedness of LANGEVIN's plant
    and is owed to a Mr. MACKENZIE of Casa Mackenzie. Mr. LANGEVIN
    may meet this payment by either (1) securing a loan from a Fort
    Worth, Texas, bank using his share in family oil interests as
    collateral, (2) taking on a Chilean partner, (3) getting the
    money from a Chilean bank (which would involve an 18% interest
    rate) or (4) getting the money elsewhere. Common agreement was
    expressed on the undesirability of taking on a Chilean partner
    since this would be a security hazard in any future PM work,
    and would also eliminate the possibility of using the plant as
    cover for another agent. Mr. LANGEVIN, asked about his previous
    statement about leaving Chile after two years, replied that now
    there was no definite plan or desire in that direction. He
    indicated he would have some idea about the possibility of
    assistance from a Texas bank within a few weeks. Mr. LANGEVIN
    also suggested that he would gladly use his earnings for the
    next two years from the agency ($6,000 per year) if the Agency
    could put up the $8,000 in a lump sum. The printing firm is
    now making a profit above the salary which LANGEVIN takes out.

3.  Printing on the Committee: Mr. SRYSER discussed the
    overall tasks which LANGEVIN is expected to perform. Much
    emphasis was placed on the need for security in explaining
    this type of IW activity, particularly if and when DTHABEAS is

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET

-2-

brought in. Mr. LANGEVIN indicated that his cover for con-
tacting the Embassy was good, and further indicated that no
unauthorized person in Chile knew of his U. S. Government
activities.

4.  Information on FULLER: When questioned about the
    discretion of FULLER, LANGEVIN indicated complete confidence,
    stating that she was very efficient and would be useful in
    assisting him in PM work. LANGEVIN was thoroughly briefed on
    the fact that FULLER must never know of DTHABEAS or its con-
    nection with the committee.

5.  Words and Deeds: Mr. LANGEVIN stated that the format,
    paper, type and photoengraving of this pamphlet was far above
    Chilean standards. He said that Chile had only one printing
    house capable of producing such work, and no artists of the
    caliber exhibited in the pamphlet. He suggested a Spanish or
    French attribution on poorer paper. The reproduction of posi-
    tives is also not done in his plant, but must be contracted for
    at a Santiago photoengraver's.

6.  Bank Details: Mr. LANGEVIN has opened an account at
    the Chemical Bank and Trust, 74th Street and Madison Avenue,
    New York City. All future monthly payments will be made to
    that bank, beginning with the payment for April.

Leo E. Patton

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET

COPY OF CABLE

ROUTINE 16 MAY 52

TO: SANTIAGO OUT 77204

FROM: OPERATIONS WASH 41154

TO: SAGOG

CITE: WASHG

1.  INFORM LANGEVIN HEADQUARTERS ATTEMPTING OBTAIN LOAN.

2.  REQUEST LANGEVIN NOTIFY HEADQUARTERS BEFORE COMPLETING
    ANY LOAN ARRANGEMENTS.

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designations should be used in the "TO" column. Under each comment a line should be drawn across sheet
and each comment numbered to correspond with the number in the "TO" column. Each officer should initial (check mark insufficient)
before further routing. This Routing and Record Sheet should be returned to Registry.

FROM: Chief, WH

DATE: 28 May 1952

TO | ROOM NO. | DATE REC'D | DATE FWD'D | OFFICER'S INITIALS
Brett

Mr. Workington

Lalanil King 29 May 52

COMMENTS

FORM NO. 51-10 SECRET

FEB 1950

14-00000

28 May 1952

MEMORANDUM FOR: OD/CO

ATTENTION: Mr. William Rowland

SUBJECT: Project PBGROVEL, Amendment No. 1

1. Forwarded herewith are the original and two copies of subject
amendment plus an extra copy of OPC Form 404a.

2. It is respectfully requested that approval of subject amend-
ment be expedited as the Project Financial Data, Form 404a, indicates
that payment of eight thousand ($8,000.00) dollars to PAUL D. LANGEVIN
must be made on or about 20 June 1952.

3. Subparagraph six of the Proposal indicates that as a prerequi-
site to issuance of a loan to LANGEVIN the latter will be required to
submit a complete nameplate inventory of all machinery and equipment in-
volved in the loan transaction, its physical existence in his custody,
his title to the property, and an approximate evaluation of its worth
(as determined by WHD station personnel). WHD will be prepared to do
this shortly after Amendment No. 1 is approved and the necessary funds
are available for payment.

4. Subparagraph five of the Proposal indicates that details of the
loan contract and selection of the appropriate legal instrument to secure
a lien on the machinery and equipment will be arrived at through joint
agreement of WHD, CCC and the Legal Division. These financial details
will be arranged subsequent to approval of the amendment in question and
will comprise the financial plan governing the expenditure of the funds
requested.

J. C. KING

WHD/JCK/SWW/VLG/HB/jc

Distribution

Orig: OD/CO

cc: Special Contracting Officer (Mr. J.L. Bischoff)

CM (Mr. Ernest W. Pittman)

Chief, Branch I

Project File PBGROVEL WHD/P&O

Chrono WHD/P&O

14-00000

SECRET

SECURITY INFORMATION

25 June 1952

MEMORANDUM FOR: ASSISTANT DIRECTOR FOR POLICY COORDINATION

SUBJECT: Project PBGROVEL, Proprietary, WHD

1. CM concurs in making a loan of U. S. $8,000 with interest
at 4 percent per annum to contract agent Paul D. Langevin (pseudo).
This loan is to be fully secured by a chattel mortgage, or whatever
other legal instrument is recognized by the appropriate Chilean
Court as establishing a first lien on the machinery and equipment,
valued at approximately U. S. $10,000, against which the loan is be-
ing made. Principal and interest are to be amortized in monthly
installments of U. S. $500, which represents the total salary
accruing each month to the agent. The term of the loan will be for
the time required to liquidate principal and interest in full.

2. The contract agent will submit a complete name-plate
inventory of all machinery and equipment involved as collateral for
the loan along with his proof of title to and its physical existence
in his possession.

Preston L. Sutphen

PRESTON L. SUTPHEN

Chief, Commercial Division

CM/RDOD/rs

Distribution:

orig & 2 - Addressee

1 - DDA

1 - WHD

3 - CM

2 - RI/FI

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designations should be used in the "TO" column. Under each comment a line should be drawn across sheet
and each comment numbered to correspond with the number in the "TO" column. Each officer should initial (check mark insufficient)
before further routing. This Routing and Record Sheet should be returned to Registry.

FROM: WHD/Br.I

DATE: 7 July 1952

TO | ROOM NO. | DATE REC'D | DATE FWD'D | OFFICER'S INITIALS
LEPatton 7 July 7
JANoel 7 July 7
DCWH/PC JUL 8 1952
OD/CO
ADPC

COMMENTS

FORM NO. 51-10 SECRET

FEB 1950

14-00000

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

DATE: 7 July 1952

TO: ADPC

VIA: OD/CO

FROM: CAH

SUBJECT: Information on Paul D. LANGEVIN principal agent of Project PBGROVEL

1.  Paul D. LANGEVIN is the principal agent of subject project, approved
    12 February 1952. Project PBGROVEL contemplates the establishment in Santiago of
    an indigenous anti-communist committee which, when developed, will be placed
    under DTHABEAS.

2.  Subject agent was granted an OSO clearance 3 October 1950, and
    proved his usefulness as a cut-out and in a DYCLAVIER printing operation. Subject
    was granted an operational clearance for DYCLAVIER work 14 January 1952, and
    received covert training in New York City in April. Since his return to
    Santiago, subject has engaged in spotting and recruiting an indigenous principal
    agent who will in turn organize the anti-communist committee.

3.  Subject is the Texas-born 30 year old, owner and publisher of the
    English-language weekly "South Pacific Mail" of Santiago. Subject has also had
    acting and writing experience since his completion of wartime service in the
    U. S. Air Force. Subject has been in Chile since November 1949 and at present
    has a two year contract as agent for this agency, signed 25 January 1952. Subject
    has indicated on several occasions a continuing interest in obtaining a permanent
    position with this agency.

4.  Due to the Subject's travel to New York for training, several
    officers of WHD have had an opportunity to observe and evaluate subject. Opinion
    on subject has been consistently favorable and he has impressed all as a person
    of high intelligence and personal integrity. Subject has had a varied occupational
    background, excellent education, and exhibits exceptional poise and a good
    appearance.

J. C. KING

14-00000

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designations should be used in the "TO" column. Under each comment a line should be drawn across sheet
and each comment numbered to correspond with the number in the "TO" column. Each officer should initial (check mark insufficient)
before further routing. This Routing and Record Sheet should be returned to Registry.

FROM: DD/P

TO | ROOM NO. | DATE REC'D | DATE FWD'D | OFFICER'S INITIALS
Project folder-PBGROVEL

COMMENTS

FORM NO. 51-10 SECRET

FEB 1950

14-00000

SECRET

ER-3-0947

MEMORANDUM FOR: DEPUTY DIRECTOR (PLANS)

SUBJECT: Project PBGROVEL, Amendment No. 1

1. Amendment No. 1 to Project PBGROVEL proposes the loan
of the sum of $8,000 at 4% interest per annum to a contract agent
in Santiago, Chile, in order that this agent may complete payment
on machinery and equipment recently installed on the premises of
the printing establishment of which said agent is sole proprietor.

2. The propriety of CIA lending funds for this purpose has
been reviewed by Opc/SRI who is of the opinion that in principle
there should be no objection. The question of operational use by
Opo has been raised with the WH Division and it has been stated
that this equipment, consisting of the press, linotype machine,
Speed Graphic cameras, etc., can be used for Opc propaganda pro-
duction purposes.

3. The question of control of the contract agent was dis-
cussed and it has been determined that the General Counsel's Of-
fice is being requested to establish legal means whereby the lien
or mortgage on this equipment will be held in the name of a cut-
out. In the event of any untoward action on the part of the con-
tract agent or disagreement between the agent and CIA, action can
be taken to assume control of the machinery.

4. As is indicated in the attached memorandum from the Chief,
WH Division, the contract agent is considered to be an individual
of high intelligence and personal integrity. For this and the
above listed reasons, it is recommended that Amendment No. 1 to
PBGROVEL be approved in the amount of $8,000.

FRANKLIN A. LINDSAY

Acting Assistant Director for
Policy Coordination

Distribution:

PRC - Orig. & 5

DD/P - 2

Project Folder

OPC/RI/FI - 2

14-00000

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designations should be used in the "TO" column. Under each comment a line should be drawn across sheet
and each comment numbered to correspond with the number in the "TO" column. Each officer should initial (check mark insufficient)
before further routing. This Routing and Record Sheet should be returned to Registry.

FROM: OPC

TO | ROOM NO. | DATE REC'D | DATE FWD'D | OFFICER'S INITIALS
DD/P

COMMENTS

FORM NO. 51-10 SECRET

FEB 1950

14-00000

SECRET

ER-3-0947

JUL 11952

MEMORANDUM FOR: DEPUTY DIRECTOR (PLANS)

SUBJECT: Project PBGROVEL, Amendment No. 1

1. Amendment No. 1 to Project PBGROVEL proposes the loan
of the sum of $8,000 at 4% interest per annum to a contract agent
in Santiago, Chile, in order that this agent may complete payment
on machinery and equipment recently installed on the premises of
the printing establishment of which said agent is sole proprietor.

2. The propriety of CIA lending funds for this purpose has
been reviewed by Opc/SRI who is of the opinion that in principle
there should be no objection. The question of operational use by
Opo has been raised with the WH Division and it has been stated
that this equipment, consisting of the press, linotype machine,
Speed Graphic cameras, etc., can be used for Opc propaganda pro-
duction purposes.

3. The question of control of the contract agent was dis-
cussed and it has been determined that the General Counsel's Of-
fice is being requested to establish legal means whereby the lien
or mortgage on this equipment will be held in the name of a cut-
out. In the event of any untoward action on the part of the con-
tract agent or disagreement between the agent and CIA, action can
be taken to assume control of the machinery.

4. As is indicated in the attached memorandum from the Chief,
WH Division, the contract agent is considered to be an individual
of high intelligence and personal integrity. For this and the
above listed reasons, it is recommended that Amendment No. 1 to
PBGROVEL be approved in the amount of $8,000.

FRANKLIN A. LINDSAY

Acting Assistant Director for
Policy Coordination

APPROVED:

DD/P

14-00000

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designations should be used in the "TO" column. Under each comment a line should be drawn across sheet
and each comment numbered to correspond with the number in the "TO" column. Each officer should initial (check mark insufficient)
before further routing. This Routing and Record Sheet should be returned to Registry.

FROM:

TO | ROOM NO. | DATE REC'D | DATE FWD'D | OFFICER'S INITIALS
OD/CO

COMMENTS

FORM NO. 51-10 SECRET

FEB 1950

14-00000

SECRET

Security Information

ER 3419

13 July 1952

MEMORANDUM FOR: Secretary, Project Review Committee

SUBJECT: Project PBGROVEL, Amendment No. 1

1. This will advise you that DD/P approved the above today in
the amount of $8,000.

2. This sum is actually a loan to a principal agent at 4% interest
per annum, repayment to be effectuated in $500 monthly installments out
of the contract agent's salary with the agency, which amounts to $6,000
per annum.

3