104-10076-10375

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

DDP, ADDP, SOD 6, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CA/FO 4,
CI, CI/OPS, CI/10:2, EL 1/2, PI/INT, IN, WH 7,
AQ/01 2, OO/1, AD/NEW R

SECRET 120 29Z

DIR INFO LANT PACY BARR CITE WAVE 8927
DEC 12 0835Z 63 IN 78746
INTEL TYPIC
SUPDATA: AMICE-14, FROM AMTRUNK-7 WITH PARA 1 FROM HUMBERTO (BERGARA), MEMBER OF A DRE-SPONSORED INFILTRATION TEAM, WHO OBTAINED
THE INFORMATION FROM UNIDENTIFIED LOCAL FISHERMEN AND PARA 2 FROM
IRENE (MILIAN) THE WIDOW OF JUAN MANUEL (MILIAN), WHO RECEIVED THE
INFORMATION IN A CALL FROM MAGDALENA (MONTESINO), THE MOTHER OF LAZARO (ALEJANDRO) MONTESINO.

RID: NO INDEX. FILED 120029Z

REPORT CLASS SECRET CONTROLLED DISSEM
COUNTRY: CUBA
SUBJ: ARRESTS AND MILITARY VIGILANCE IN THE NORTHERN COASTAL AREA OF MATANZAS PROVINCE.
FW COMMENT: DISSEMINATION OF THIS CABLE HAS ELICITED THE AGENCY.

DATE DISTRIBUTED BASED ON:

LIAISON:

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE
PRIORITY

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy No.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Sections 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

REPORT NO. 178746
DATE OF INFO: As of 5 DECEMBER 1963
PLACE & DATE ACQ:
APPRAISAL: THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

1. AS OF 5 DECEMBER 1963, THE NORTHERN COASTAL AREA OF MATANZAS PROVINCE, PARTICULARLY THAT IN THE VICINITY OF RIO PALMA (N 23-04, W 81-46), WAS UNDER MILITIA SURVEILLANCE.

2. AS OF 9 DECEMBER, MANY PERSONS HAD BEEN ARRESTED IN MARTI, ITABO, AND MAXIMO GOMEZ, MATANZAS PROVINCE, AND MILITIA WERE ALL ALONG THE COASTLINE IN THIS AREA.

3. FIELD DISSEM: CINCLANT, CINCSO, COMNAVKEYWEST, USCG (MIAMI)

SECRET
END OF MESSAGE
