14-00000
104-10170-10059 (2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992)

TO: ACTION
FROM: SANTO DOMINGO
INFO:

SUBJECT: SUPPORT OF THE DOMINICAN AIR FORCE AND NAVY FOR OPERATIONS
IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC.

DATE OF INFO: EARLY AUGUST 1964
PLACE ACQ: DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, SANTO DOMINGO (13 AUGUST 1964)

APPRAISAL:

SOURCE: DOMINICAN GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL (F) WITH EXCELLENT CONTACTS IN MILITARY CIRCLES.

REPORT NO:

1. THE DOMINICAN AIR FORCE AND THE DOMINICAN NAVY ARE ALLOWING CRAFT MANNED BY CUBAN EXILES TO CACHE ARMS AND OTHER SUPPLIES ON THE DOMINICAN COAST AT LAS PENAS AND PUNTA LUNA, SOUTH OF MONTE CRISTI. THE BOATS ARRIVE AND DEPART QUICKLY, WITH PL- FROM THE DOMINICAN NAVY, TO CACHE THEIR CARGO. ARMS AND OTHER SUPPLIES ARE NOT OF DOMINICAN ORIGIN. THE CUBAN EXILES DO NOT REMAIN ASHORE, BUT LEAVE ON THE CRAFT THAT BROUGHT THEM.

2. AIR FORCE COL. JUAN N. FOLCH PERLA, AND GEN. ATILA LUNA WERE REPORTEDLY AIDING CUBAN REBELS.

COMMENT:

THAT FOLCH AND LUNA WERE AIDING CUBAN REBELS.

INDIV. FOLCH, LUNA, FILED 1322A

REPORT CLASS SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSIM HOC ASS
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC/CUBA

RELEASING OFFICER WAVE INFO PACY LANT CITE SDOM 3355 (SHRYOOK ACTING)

INTEL: EM-1, OMGEM-1 HAD SAID ON

FIELD DISSEM: STATE ARMY NAVY AIR CINCSO CANLANT.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROL: SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSIM

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

CONTINUATION OF DCS INFORMATION REPORT

NOTE: This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C., Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

END OF MESSAGE
