AARAAN
104-10006-10247 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FROM: (Requesters name)
BRANCH
ROOM
SECRET
BADGE NO.
NAME CHECK AND CONSOLIDATION REQUEST

EXTENSION
DATE
RID CONTROL NO.

TO
TUBE
ROOM
DATE
INITIALS

RID/INDEX DT-5 REQUESTER
RID/FILES DT-6 REQUESTER
RID/ANALYSIS GT-7
RID/201 DW-6
RID/MIS GT-6
RID/INDEX DT-5

SURNAME
DEDKOV,

CHECKING INSTRUCTIONS

SUBJECT TO BE CHECKED
GIVEN NAMES
Roman Fedorovich or Vilasa Nikolaevna

SPELLING VARIATIONS TO BE CHECKED
AKA, ALIASES

OTHER IDENTIFYING DATA (Occupation, sex, CP membership, I. S. affiliations, etc.)
Poss. at for. Emily the And

DATE OF BIRTH
PLACE OF BIRTH
CITIZENSHIP
USSR
RESIDENCE
Minsk
USSR

RESULTS OF RID/INDEX CHECK
COMMENTS

INSTRUCTIONS FOR REQUESTERS
1. Use gummed label; type or print all entries.

2. Upon receipt of index card reproductions draw a green diagonal line across the items you do not want.

3. Edit (use green) the reproduced index cards to indicate:

(a) cards to be destroyed (mark with green D and note reason for destruction) Examples: document destroyed; duplicate or less informative than retained information; information of no CS value.

(b) corrections and additions, including infinity symbol ∞ when card includes all facts contained in the document.

Note 1. Records of COI, SSU, OSS and CIG are in RID/ARD, and those that meet indexing criteria in CSHB 70-1-1 are carded in the CS Main Index. If you believe there could be additional information of value in these records, you must request an Archives Index search.

IN ALL CASES: 201 CONSOLIDATION

Return this form with the card reproductions, also return pertinent documents, aperture cards and the dossier if a 201 on the subject exists.

For each document to be included in the consolidation (i.e., copy or cross reference to be placed in the 201 file), green D the corresponding card and check (a) or (b) below:

(a) ☐ Consolidate into 201-

(b) ☐ Open 201 file on subject.

RESTRICTION (If any)
OTHER INTERESTED DESKS OR STATIONS
Note 2. Information concerning foreign public personalities (except military) may be available in BR/OCR

CRYPTONYM ASSIGNED
YES
NO
FILE TO BE KEPT
RD
DESK
DATE
SIGNATURE OF RECORDS OFFICER

--- Page 2 ---

13-00000

One Roman Fedorovich DEDKOV, born 28 March 1927 in Ariansk, USSR, and his wife Vilasa Nikolayevna DEDKOV, born 31 December 1930 in Minsk, USSR, applied-for were listed as applicants for entry visas to India sometime prior to April 1962. DEDKOV, who was issued Soviet passport number 207461 on 17 September 1960, was scheduled to arrive in New Delhi for two years as an English language teacher at the Soviet Embassy.

It is not known whether or not DEDKOV actually arrived in New Delhi.

Not sent because it shows liaison to Indians, a wrong "Home List" not classified.

10 Aug '64

--- Page 3 ---

13-00000
INDIA

DEDKOV, Roman Fedorovich
Subj scheduled to arrive New Delhi for two years as an English teacher at the Soviet Embassy; Ppt 207461 iss 17 Sept 60 (Hos Comment: Subj is presumed to have arr sometime after Sept 60). NBDA-8509, 24 Apr 62
Wife: Vilasa Nikolayevna (DPOB: 31 Dec 1930; Minsk)
201-756.978.
DOB: 28 Mar 1927; Ariansk
