[2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

REPORT NO. UFG-1759
REPORT COVER SHEET
SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
DATE OF REPORT 25 October 1962

JMWAVE
Alice B. CAPONONG
Douglas C. NISLEY
Wilma J. MARKWALTER
Andrew E. REUTENAN

GYROSE

Source: Para 1, AMUD-1 by letter dated 24 September from friend Melquia from Habana. Para 2, ANFAUNA-13 by message 11 dated 9 October, received by WAVE/Tocha on 18 October. Legibility of message was somewhat impaired; the footnote stating that the vessels had discharged their cargo as signified by the (D) is confusing since the date of the message is earlier than the last expected date of arrival (19 Oct.)

Accompanying report are attached untranslated shipping documents entitled "Movement of Steamships in the Republic", for dates 5 through 16 August 1962, supplied by AMFAUNA-1, received 18 October 1962.

OPTIONAL entries NEED NOT BE FILLED IN IF DUPLICATED IN ACCOMPANYING REPORT

COUNTRY Cuba
SUBJECT Soviet Merchant Vessels in Cuban Ports
Attachment: H/W Shipping Documents
DISTRIBUTION:
4 - Headquarters w/mat & atts
1 - 00/C
1 - File

NO. OF ENCLOSURES
NO. OF PAGES 2
REFERENCES

GRADING OF SOURCE: Complete reliability of source. Believability of information regarded as beyond reasonable doubt.
APPRAISAL OF CONTENT: Confirmed by other sources.

FIELD INFORMATION REPORT
E - Reliable (Applied to sources believed to be completely reliable)
2 - Probably True, 3 - Possibly True, 4 - Doubtful, 5 - Probably False.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

DATE OF INFO: 1 September - 19 October 1962
PLACE & DATE ACQ.: Cuba (24 September - 16 October 1962)
SOURCE:
Para 1: Leading official (C) in an anti-Castro group, from a Habana resident. Para 2: Cuban businessman (F).
Appraisal of Content: 3.

From 1 to 10 September the following Soviet merchant vessels, transporting war materiel, arrived at the port of Isabela de Sagua:

THIRUG VISHNEVSKY 9,600 tons
BALORATSK 8,700 tons
MICHURINSK 7,532 tons
VOLGOLES 4,345 tons
DVINOGORSK 7,838 tons
USOLYE 4,500 tons

The following merchant vessels arrived at the ports listed on the dates indicated, with the following cargo:

Ship Date Origin Port of Tons Cargo

MARKY 2 Oct. Habana 424 General Cargo (D)
PAMIT 3 Oct. Habana 446 Cattle also (D)
1,094 General Cargo (D)
ARKHANGELIK 3 Oct. Habana 226 Trucks (D)
REINHOLT 3 Oct. Habana 3,400 Grain (D)
MATOUBA 3 Oct. HABANA 937 Potatoes (D)

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

MATOULA ID 153 Grease (D)
USOLYE 3 Oct. Matanzas 5,000 Cement (D)
TANKERS DUE TO ARRIVE FROM THE BLACK SEA

LISICHANSK 3 Oct. Habana 231,000 Petroleum (barrels) (D)
DEZHNEV 8 Oct. Habana 269,000 Petroleum (barrels) (D)
UKRAINE 9 Oct. Habana 21,000 Petroleum (barrels) (D)
also, 9,500 Oil (barrels) (D)
also, 31,600 Gasoline (barrels) (D)
OCEAN EXPLORER 14 Oct. Habana 170,000 Crude Oil (barrels) (D)
BAUSKA 19 Oct. Habana Cargo unknown
LONDON PRESTIGE 14 Oct. Santiago de Cuba 171,000 Crude Oil (barrels) (D)
LENKORAN 7 Oct. Habana 254,000 Crude Oil (barrels) (D)
ALDEBARAN 5 Oct. Santiago de Cuba 342,000 Crude Oil (barrels) (D)

NOTE: (D) Indicates that cargo was disembarked (unloaded).

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

ANPIACO
HABANA
CIENFUEGOS
HABANA
NICARO

Gral
Gral.
Arroz

Sección de Buques Tanques, Petróleo, Mieles y Alcohol

Habana
S. de Cuba (Cabotaje) Nuevitas
Nicaro

Sección Carga General
Habana
