4-00000

104-10214-10034 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

SECRET-EYES ONLY

TABLE OF CONTENTS

|                                                                 | Page |
| :-------------------------------------------------------------- | :--- |
| The assassination                                              | 1    |
| Overt knowledge of U.S. Government involvement                 | 2    |
| Recollections of CIA officials                                  | 8    |
| The organization of the coup group                              | 11   |
| Why a coup failed to follow the assassination                  | 13   |
| International activity in opposition to Trujillo               | 16   |
| The cast                                                        | 17   |
| The first Farland memorandum                                    | 17   |
| Level of CIA activity prior to 1960                             | 19   |
| Approach to Trujillo by General Clark                           | 20   |
| Operation Lancet                                                | 21   |
| State asks Farland if he could engineer a coup                  | 22   |
| Farland replies that he could                                   | 22   |
| Farland says the dissidents need guns                            | 24   |
| The U.S. is prepared to assist in overthrowing Trujillo         | 30   |
| Rubottom asks that sniper rifles be supplied the dissidents      | 33   |
| Acting DCI approves air drop of 12 Springfield rifles           | 34   |
| Special Group approves all arms for dissidents                  | 35   |
| COS asks that one weapon be sent in each pouch                  | 36   |
| Dearborn learns of plan to assassinate by intercepting auto     | 35   |
| Wimpy Berry asks for submachine guns for plotters               | 38   |
| Dearborn asks for three .38-caliber pistols for dissidents      | 40   |
| The plot to kill Trujillo at his mistress' apartment            | 41   |
| COS protests restriction on pouching weapons                   | 42   |
| Hqs guidance cable on policy and objectives                    | 42   |
| Station asks permission to pass three carbines to dissidents    | 43   |
| Hqs approves passing carbines                                   | 44   |
| The carbines are passed to the dissidents                       | 44   |
| Request for pouch waiver ref pouching submachine guns           | 47   |
| Submachine guns pouched                                         | 43   |
| Pleas from dissidents that submachine guns be passed to them    | 49   |
| Hqs informs the station not repeat not to pass submachine guns | 50   |
| Post-Bay of Pigs standdown cable                                | 51   |
| Station acknowledges receipt of submachine guns                  | 51   |
| Draft cable (not sent) approving release of submachine guns     | 52   |
| State Department disapproves passing submachine guns            | 53   |
| The whereabouts of the three carbines                           | 54   |
| Special Group confirms not passing submachine guns to dissidents | 54   |
| The dissidents' assassination plans are firm                   | 47   |
| U.S. policy does not condone assassination                      | 43   |
| Dearborn and the COS protest                                    | 49   |
| Critic No. 1 on the assassination                              | 50   |
| Vice President Johnson asks about arms delivery                | 51   |
| Discovery of U.S. involvement with assassination group          | 51   |
| Recapitulation of arms passed or considered for passing        | 52   |
| The motivations of the assassins                                | 53   |

SECRET-EYES ONLY

Rafael Trujillo, the Dominican dictator, was assassinated at about ten p.m. on the night of 30 May 1961. It was Trujillo's custom to visit one of his mistresses at his ranch at San Cristobal about once a week. On most of his travels he rode in a Chrysler with bullet-proof glass and with security guards riding in accompanying cars. He departed from this practice on his periodic trips to San Cristobal and substituted a highly stereotyped pattern of action: after his nightly walk, he dismissed his companions; changed into a khaki uniform; and set out for San Cristobal in an unescorted 1957 Chevrolet, always driven by the same chauffeur.

On the night of the slaying, the Chevrolet was intercepted on a four-lane highway on the outskirts of Ciudad Trujillo by eight armed assassins in three cars. Trujillo was killed by gunfire, and his body was removed from the scene by the assassins. Trujillo's chauffeur was seriously wounded, was left behind by the assassins, and survived. All of the assassins escaped from the scene. One was never caught and was eventually granted amnesty. Two were killed while resisting arrest. The others were arrested, confessed, and were later executed before coming to trial. About eight or nine others, who were in on or knew of the plot but did not participate in the actual assassination, were killed while in custody, while resisting arrest, or by suicide to avoid arrest and torture.

(Note: We use the term "plotters" to refer to all of those involved in this attempt to overthrow Trujillo. "Assassins" refers to the small group that actually did the killing.)

SECRET-EYES ONLY

There were reports in Ciudad Trujillo at the time that the U.S. Consulate had been in some way involved with the plotters.

Eventually, after the surviving plotters were granted amnesty, many of the details came out. Norman Call, a reporter with the San Juan Star, wrote an article that appeared in The New Republic issue of 13 April 1963. Excerpts follow:

The assassination of the Dominican Republic's Rafael L. Trujillo was carried out with assistance from the US Central Intelligence Agency. Arms for the May 30, 1961 slaying of the 69-year-old dictator on a lonely stretch of highway near his capital were smuggled by the CIA into the country at the request of the assassins.

The CIA began shipping arms to the Dominican Republic in late 1960, following a series of talks between US Consul Henry Dearborn, Chief Political Officer John Barfield of the US Consulate, and Luis Amiama Tio. Also involved in the plot was Antonio Imbert, who had been Governor of Puerto Plata province.

As Trujillo's political and financial problems deepened, talks continued between Dearborn, Barfield and leaders of the anti-Trujillo conspiracy. Toward the end of 1960, contact was established between Amiama and a CIA agent who was named Plato Cox.

The key link between the assassins and the CIA in the arms shipments was a long-time American civilian resident of Ciudad Trujillo, Lorenzo Berry, otherwise known as "Wimpy," who operated a supermarket in a fashionable neighborhood where Trujillo also lived. "Wimpy" was put under brief arrest after the killing but was later allowed to leave the country.

The weapons were imported in small parts, to be assembled later by the plotters, among the routine grocery shipments for the supermarket arriving regularly in the capital's port. The

SECRET-EYES ONLY

gun parts entered the Republic in specially-marked food cans, which were later turned over to the conspirators.

Plans for the intended assassination were worked out during the same period in which the abortive assault on Cuba was being prepared. However, when the CIA-organized April 17, 1961, invasion at the Bay of Pigs failed and world attention was focused on Washington's complicity in that operation, a postponement of the attempt on Trujillo's life was ordered because of the embarrassment another such failure might cause the United States. But the order to hold up came too late. The needed weapons were already in the hands of the conspirators, who refused appeals by Dearborn and Barfield to delay the assassination. They insisted on moving at the first opportunity. This came on May 30, when Trujillo and his chauffeur drove out into the country in an unescorted 1957 Chevrolet for a rendezvous at a San Cristobal estate, La Fundacion, with Trujillo's 20-year-old mistress, Mona Sanchez.

It can be reported on excellent authority that close associates of the slain dictator knew of the US role within a few days following the killing.

Dearborn, Barfield and Berry had meanwhile been rushed out of the Dominican Republic by US officials.

Since the ouster of the Trujillos, Berry ("Wimpy") has returned to operate his handsomely appointed supermarket, where he greets customers with calm and courtesy, as if Trujillo had never lived...

We interviewed Richard Bissell (then DD/P), J. C. King (then Chief, WH Division), and J. D. Esterline (then Chief of Operations, WH Division). King recalls the Agency's role as being limited to monitoring internal plotting against the Trujillo regime "but not pushing or instigating." Esterline, like King, recalls that the Agency was not directly involved in coup plotting. He described the

SECRET-EYES ONLY

furnishing of weapons as a symbol--something that would constitute tangible evidence of U.S. support. Bissell remembers the Agency role as being somewhat more positive than that described by King and Esterline. He viewed the Agency's role as one of giving support to an indigenous group whose intended actions were in the U.S. interest. He described the affair as "a fairly normal operation involving meetings, discussions, and formal approvals." We do not have firm information as to whether or not any of the weapons supplied by CIA were actually used in the assassination of Trujillo. Both Esterline and King believe they were not. Bissell, however, has a vague impression that one of them was.

The Agency officers most immediately involved with the plotters are now widely scattered. Lear Reed, who was chief of station until October 1960, is now retired. Robert Owen, who was chief of station at the time of the assassination, is in Paris. Charles Cookson, the station's operations officer, is in Brazil. Isabel Cintron, the station's administrative assistant who was used as a communications link and in the passing of the arms, resigned in 1964 and is believed to be living in Puerto Rico. Red Holman, the headquarters branch chief, is in Guatemala City. We elected not to call back any of these people for interviews. While they might be able

SECRET EYES ONLY

to furnish minor details that are missing from the written records, we think it unlikely that they would be able to add significantly to the quite complete record that appears in the EMDEED operational files.

Agency activities aimed at replacing the Trujillo regime were assigned the cryptonym EMDEED. One segment of EMDEED was known as EMSLEW, the cryptonym for the operation to remove Trujillo by violent action. We have reviewed the voluminous EMDEED files. Most of this account is drawn from them. Many of the more significant documents were not put into the EMDEED files but were kept in a private file by J. C. King. He made that file available to us.

We also have studied another particularly useful document. The Dominican Military Intelligence Service (SIM) officer put in charge of the investigation of the Trujillo assassination was a navy lieutenant named Ortiz. The Dominican Republic assigned him to its embassy in Ottawa in November 1961 when the Trujillo family's attempt to regain power failed. The New York field office of the FBI held extensive interviews with him from 6 April through 10 May 1962. The result was a massively-detailed, 182-page report on the plot and on the assassination as reconstructed by the SIM from its interrogations of the persons it apprehended.

SECRET-EVES ONLY

From the records, we can trace the origins and the course of U.S. policy with respect to the overthrow of Trujillo. We also can ascertain from the files the nature and the extent of U.S. support of the plotters, including the passing to them of weapons out of the U.S. Consulate in Ciudad Trujillo. What we cannot discover from the files, despite quite massive documentation, is how the coup group was organized. The best single account we find, and it is not wholly accurate, is in a book by Robert Crassweller.\* The main flaw in the story is its failure to identify the individuals with whom the U.S. Government was actually working. Excerpts follow:

The plot was organized on the basis of two groups of conspirators linked together by a liaison that later proved too fragile to bear the stresses laid upon it. Each group had its purpose and its separate personnel.

The function of the Action Group was to assassinate Trujillo and immediately present proof of its success, in the form of Trujillo's corpse, to the second group, the Political Group. The latter would then launch a coup, taking over the machinery of the government and the Armed Forces.

The Action Group consisted of eight men. It appears to have been organized originally by General Antonio Imbert Barreras and Salvador Estrella. They were joined by Lieut. Amado Garcia Guerrero, a member of the military corps attached to Trujillo in the National Palace; Antonio de la Maza, the brother of Octavio de la Maza, who had been killed by the government because of his involvement in the

\* Robert D. Crassweller, Trujillo: The Life and Times of a Caribbean Dictator (New York: MacMillan Co., 1965)

SECRET-EVES ONLY

Galindez case; Huascar Tejeda; Roberto Pastoriza; and Pedro Livio Cedeno. The eighth member, Manuel Caceres Tunti, was in Moca on the night of the 30th and saw none of the action.

The Political Group had a less distinct membership. It included Luis Amiama Tio, Modesto Diaz, General Juan Tomas Diaz, and several others. At the very top it had the support of General Roman Fernandez, Secretary of State for the Armed Forces, and his brother Bibin.

The over-all authority appears to have centered principally in General Diaz, probably the only one who had sufficient prestige to command authority.

The Action Group would remain in daily readiness. When information in the Palace indicated that Trujillo was going to drive to Estancia Fundacion . . . Garcia Guerrero in the Palace would inform the others by personal message.

The expected message from Garcia Guerrero in the Palace came to the patient plotters at seven o'clock on the evening of May 30. They were not fully prepared and coordinated at this moment, but the emotional and impetuous de la Maza threatened to act by himself if the others lagged... In any event, the plan went into execution. Each of them had his revolver or pistol, and de la Maza also had his own sawed-off shotgun and two M-1 semiautomatic rifles.

The conspiracy began to come apart within an hour. Never very professionally contrived, the plot was hastened prematurely to its culmination by the impatience of de la Maza, and it was now afflicted with bad luck and ineptitude. Immediately after the assassination, the men of the Action Group were unable to reach General Roman.

The Political Group of the conspiracy never took up its planned role. The Action Group scattered, leaving a trail as wide as a boulevard. Trujillo's body was left in the trunk of de la Maza's car, parked in the garage of General Tomas Diaz, where the police found it in a few hours. The conspirators were all hunted down very quickly, except for Amiama and Imbert, who managed to conceal themselves for months until the danger had passed.

SECRET-EVES ONLY

The FBI report of its interviews of Ortiz, the SIM investigator, gives an excellent account of why the plot fell apart after the assassination took place. One of the assassins, Pedro Livio Cedeno, was seriously wounded (probably by fire from his own companions). All of the assassins assembled at General Diaz' house after the killing. One of them called a friend, Dr. Robert Reid Cabral, to treat Livio. Dr. Reid found him so badly injured that surgery would be required. Reid and two of the assassins took Livio to a hospital.

While in delirium he mumbled the names "de la Maza" and "Juan Tomas." The police immediately picked up two brothers of Antonio de la Maza. Neither was personally involved in the plot, but both knew the details and the names of most of the assassins. General Diaz, Antonio de la Maza, and Lieut. Garcia Guerrero were killed resisting arrest. Amiama and Imbert went into hiding and survived. The rest were caught and interrogated following torture. All confessed.

The confessions led to identification of persons who were in or on the fringes of the Political Group: General Roman and his brother, Amiama Tio, General Garcia Urbaez, General Guarionex Estrella, Tomas Baez Diaz, Modesto Diaz, and Miguel Angel Baez Diaz.

Lorenzo Berry (Wimpy) was identified as a communications link between the plotters and the U.S. Consulate. However, the SIM did not

SECRET-EYES ONLY

discover the identities of the political plotters with whom the Consulate was actually working, because neither of the men who might have known the identities were available for interrogation. Amiama Tio escaped and General Diaz was killed.

Although the identities and the intention of the Action Group were fairly widely known to persons not actually members of it, there appears to have been excellent compartmentation between the Political and the Action Groups--perhaps too much compartmentation. The assassination itself was well planned. General Diaz was in over-all charge of the operation, but de la Maza was the one who did all of the work. He took three cars to a local garage and had the engines rebuilt so that the cars could reach speeds of 120 mph. He had possession of the weapons from the U.S. Consulate, plus several of his own. He and the other participants took the cars to the site selected for the killing and conducted dry runs each night. Everything was ready and the assassins were lying in wait for Trujillo on the night of 23 May. At the last minute he decided not to go to San Cristobal because he wasn't feeling too well. The assassins continued their dry runs each evening. After the assassination was carried out, essentially as it had been planned, the coup that was to follow failed--in part because of bad luck, in part because of poor planning, and in part because of too much compartmentation.

SECRET-EVES ONLY

General Roman, who was to take over the government after Trujillo's death, was not told that the assassination was to be attempted on May 30th. After the slaying, General Diaz tried to telephone General Roman but could not reach him. Diaz then took the car with Trujillo's body still in its trunk and drove to Roman's house. He saw so many soldiers in the vicinity that he gave up and returned home, leaving the car in the driveway with the body still in the trunk, where it was later found by the police.

What had happened was this: Former general and former head of the SIM, Arturo Espaillat, happened to chance upon the scene while the assassination was taking place. He was out for a drive with his wife and was passed by a car that he recognized as Trujillo's. He stopped at a drive-in restaurant and almost immediately heard shooting ahead, which he suspected involved Trujillo. He drove to the scene, saw what was happening, turned around, and sped back into town. He stopped at a military installation and gave the alarm and then drove to the home of General Roman to alert him. He and Roman then returned to the scene of the assassination, arriving simultaneously with the police. The police found Trujillo's chauffeur, who was wounded but still alive. Roman and Espaillat then went to the hospital to try to question the chauffeur. Thus, General Diaz could not reach General Roman to inform Roman that

SECRET-EYES ONLY

Trujillo had been killed and that it was time for Roman to make his move to take over the government. Roman knew only that there had been a shooting involving Trujillo and that Trujillo was missing. He did not know whether General Diaz' group was involved in it or not. He was reluctant to move until he was sure that Trujillo was dead. By the time Roman concluded that Trujillo must be dead, it was too late for him to act; Hector Trujillo and Johnny Abbes had already taken charge. Roman did make a couple of feeble tries at engineering a take over, but it is apparent that he had no real advance plan nor any appreciable chances of succeeding.

The assassination itself and the plotting preceding it took place against a background of international activity in opposition to the Trujillo regime, with both the CAS and the U.S. taking clear-cut stands. These are some of the highlights:

a. A briefing paper prepared in WH Division for the Joint Chiefs of Staff in August 1960 states that a revolt was planned for December 1959 in the Dominican Republic but was delayed pending receipt of arms from Venezuela. The plot was discovered and was rolled up in January. Venezuela brought charges in the OAS that the Dominican Republic was "in flagrant violation of human rights, freedom, and democracy" following the mass arrests in the Dominican Republic in January 1960. A committee of the

SECRET-EYES ONLY

OAS assigned to investigate the charges reported on 8 June 1960 that the Dominican government was guilty as charged.

b. A near-miss assassination attempt against President Betancourt on 24 June 1960 killed two in his entourage and injured him and several others. The Venezuelan government announced after capture of most of the assassins that the Dominican government was responsible for the attempt on Betancourt's life and took its case to the OAS. On 20 August, the OAS voted sanctions against the Dominican Republic. Under Secretary of State Dillon, testifying before the House Agriculture Committee on 24 August in support of a request by President Eisenhower for a cut in the Dominican Republic's sugar quota, is reported as having said that it was hoped that economic sanctions would result in the downfall of Trujillo's dictatorship and its replacement by a moderate and free regime. The United States severed diplomatic relations with the Dominican Republic on 26 August 1960, although consular relations were continued.

SECRET-EYES ONLY

As a further prelude to a chronological review of operation EMDEED/EMSLEW, we think it would be useful to identify the people involved, especially since officers of the Department of State played a very prominent role.

Washington - Department of State

|                                  |                                              |
| :------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------- |
| Roy R. Rubottom                  | Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs |
| Frank Devine                     | Special Assistant to Rubottom                |
| John C. Hill                     | Special Assistant to Rubottom                |

Washington - CIA

|            |                      |
| :--------- | :------------------- |
| J. C. King | Chief, WH Division   |
| Ned Holman  | Chief, Branch III, WH Division |

Ciudad Trujillo - Department of State

|                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 