14-00000

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
104-10175-10152

SECRET

MISHRAIDON FOR: Chief, WI/CA
Yazareth 1967

1. Response to the Council for Latin America

The activities of KI/1 touch upon four organizations listed below. There are no other activities as they may concern organizations listed on the CA memo (attached).

2. Currently budgeted at $50,000 annually, supports in part this organization, which also receives funds (some $950,000 yearly) from KISENSOR, a German Mahope fund with headquarters in Aachen, Germany. The objective of this effort is to help establish model or prototype agrarian organizations designed to alleviate and hopefully to advance the social and economic strains of the Mexican community.

3. Instituto de Investigacions Sociales y socacions. The executive director of this organization was associated with the LUFFY project, but he is no longer an active member of this project which is funded at the current rate of $4,200 annually and supports WFF-1, the Station's only contact with access to rightist political organizations.

4. Centro Racional de Estudios Sociales - The director of this organization (WERE-3) is no longer an active OFACT agent. The LISINGH project was terminated in 1965 and had been funded at an annual rate of some $65,000. The project supported a mass media propaganda effort directed at the middle and lower classes of Mexico and sponsored by a front group of conservative Mexican businessmen.

5. American Chamber of Commerce of Mexico - The vice president of this organization is a current Station asset, LEUF-1. No money is provided from OFACT sources to this organization, although LEUF-1 receives monthly $300.00. The duties of this agent do not directly relate to his Chamber of Commerce responsibilities. LEUF-1's principal duty is to gather historical data on rightist political organizations.

Distribution:
O & 1 - Addressee
cc - LOOK Project
(6) LIBUY-1 201
cc - WR/1/CA
1-3 201

SECRET

W. J. Kentfen
C/18/2
G/RS
