14-00000

104-10217-10221

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE
PART II - OPERATIONAL INFORMATION

PRO NO.

DISPATCH NO.

INSTRUCTIONS TO CASE OFFICER

1. This form must be filled in by the case officer or appropriate authority on the basis of the best available in-
formation. It is not to be shown to the subject.

2. Normally, Headquarters will be unable to see an approval unless requester furnishes answers to all questions
in PRO parts I and II. However, in an emergency provisional approval may be obtained by complying with the ap-
plicable provisions of FR 10-215, paragraphs 8, 12b and 12d. Thereafter the usual method to document or com-
plete the case must be followed as set forth in FR 10-215.

3. Three (3) completed copies of PRO part I (including copy in subject's handwriting, if possible) and two (2) com-
pleted copies of this form must be sent to Headquarters as soon as possible.

4. Data acquired later must be sent to Headquarters in PRO format in two (2) copies.

5. Fill in all items, if information obtainable. If item not applicable write "NA." If additional space required
for items, use reverse side of page keyed to appropriate item number.

1. CRYPTONYM: STEBONY/1

2. PSEUDONYM: Frederick T. Dominic

SECTION I

CONTACT AND DEVELOPMENT

1. INDICATE WHEN, HOW, WHERE, WHY, AND BY WHOM SUBJECT WAS FIRST CONTACTED OR DEVELOPED.

In response to Headquarters requests, London Station officer George H. Katzenbach
contacted Subject in London in mid-January 1965 for the purpose of debriefing him on
his experiences in the pro-ChiCom milieu in Africa and western Europe up to the time
of his departure from the staff of Revolution in spring 1964. This was followed up by
in-depth debriefing sessions carried out by Katzenbach in a PBSWING conference room
on 17, 18, 19 and 23 February. On the basis of these talks it was decided to recruit
Subject for a test assignment in Algiers during the summer of 1965 during which time
he would attempt to build long-term access and cover for reporting on activities and
personalities in the Afro-Asian community. KUDESK/ICG staffer Joseph S. Tiffany
was dispatched to London TDY 1-7 June for this purpose. After recruitment and
agreement to LCFLUTTER examination, Subject was introduced to his Paris-based Case
Officer, Rufus F. RODIGAST, on 3 June.

2. INDICATE WHETHER SUBJECT COULD BE TURNED OVER QUICKLY AND IN A SECURE MANNER TO ANY RESPONSIBLE CASE OFFICER FOR
HANDLING. IF SO, INDICATE TO WHOM.

Yes! To any Case Officer introduced to him by RODIGAST, TIFFANY or
KATZENBACH.

3. LIST OTHER CASE OFFICERS WHO HAVE HANDLED SUBJECT OR WHOM HE KNOWS OR HAS KNOWN. GIVE NAMES BY WHICH THEY HAVE
BEEN KNOWN.

KATZENBACH - known to Subject as "Earl Wilson"

TIFFANY - " " "Robert 'Bob' Gustke"
RODIGAST - " " "Paul Weller"

FORM 53
7-63
USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.
SECRET
(4-201)

14-00000

SECRET

SECTION II

MOTIVATION AND CONTROL

1. ESTIMATE SUBJECT'S MOTIVATION. (Be detailed, if possible, cite evidence. Do not use stock comments such as ***
communist.")

Subject's lack of funds and a job are of primary importance. His need for
cash (evidenced to some extent by his attempt to peddle articles to China Quarterly,
Encounter, and Atlantic Monthly in the fall of '64) was critical. But of even
greater significance is his desire to effect his long-range rehabilitation in order
not to be stuck in the morass of the impecunious and "morally fraudulant" extreme left
for the rest of his life. Also important in Subject's motivation is the sense of
adventure connected with "The Game", which is enhanced by his desire to deceive
(to put one over on) those persons, such as Verges, who exploited and deceived him.
Subj. evinces deep contempt for these professional revolutionaries and what he
refers to, with feeling, as their "moral fraud".

2. INDICATE WHAT CONTROL, IF ANY, EXISTS OVER THE SUBJECT. (If no control, or if there is a lack of real control
explain.)

Control exists quite strongly in the area of Subject's material welfare and
rehabilitation.

SECTION III

COVER

1. COVER USED BY SUBJECT AND CASE OFFICER IN THEIR MEETINGS.

Subj. explained to his wife that "Wilson" (Katzenbach), who telephoned his home
was an American publisher's representative. Subj. and Rodigast will use a journalist/
literary agent cover in the unlikely event their clandestine meetings are compromised.

2. COVER USED BY SUBJECT IN OBTAINING HIS INFORMATION AND IN CONTACTING HIS INFORMANTS.

Freelance journalist, author. Sympathetic leftist.

3. INDICATE SERVICE FOR WHICH SUBJECT THINKS HE (Will work) (Is working).

KUBARK

SECTION IV

INTELLIGENCE CONNECTIONS AND TRAINING

1. EXPLAIN SUBJECT'S KNOWN PAST OR PRESENT CONNECTION WITH ANY OTHER INTELLIGENCE SERVICE. INDICATE THE EXTENT
SUCH CONNECTION IS KNOWN OVERTLY.

Subj. applied for association with KUBARK in 1950 and again in 1960; his enemies
have tried to discredit him by calling him a KUBARK agent, but there is good evidence
that this rumor campaign has not hurt him among his friends, even his friends on the
extreme left of the political spectrum. No known I. S. connection.

2. LIST OTHER INDIVIDUALS (Agents, relatives, friends) WHO KNOW OF SUBJECT'S PRESENT INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.

None.

3. EXPLAIN ANY TRAINING SUBJECT HAS HAD IN CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS.

Basic security tradecraft briefings in London 1 - 7 June 1965;
SW training in Paris 14 June 1965.

SECTION V

COLLABORATION POTENTIAL

1. INDICATE OTHER FOREIGN POWER SUBJECT COULD BE MOST LIKELY TO COLLABORATE WITH BECAUSE OF HIS IDEOLOGY OR PAST
ASSOCIATIONS. EXPLAIN.

British. Subj. resided in London from June '64 to June '65. His wife is
a British subject.

SECRET

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

SECRET

SECTION VI

OPERATIONAL USE - CONTACT

1. IF SUBJECT HAS BEEN USED OR CONTACTED BEFORE, INDICATE ACTIVITY IN WHICH HE HAS ENGAGED AND THE TYPE OF INFOR-
MATION HE HAS FURNISHED.

In December 1963 Subj. was interviewed by a consulate officer in Paris for
information on Lee Harvey Oswald, who reportedly had some contact with the Fair
Play for Cuba Committee. Subj. was completely co-operative and the interviewer
suggested follow-up, but the contact was dropped.

2. INDICATE HOW AND FROM WHOM SUBJECT OBTAINS INFORMATION.

Subj. elicits information from his broad circle of friends and acquaintances
in the Afro-Asian/liberation movement areas.

3. INDICATE WHAT HAS BEEN TOLD SUBJECT AS TO THE DISPOSITION OF INFORMATION HE FURNISHES.

Nothing

4. DETAIL SUBJECT'S PROPOSED FI OR CI TYPE USE OR DUTIES.

Subject will operate under free lance journalist cover to develop contacts
in the target milieu of Afro-Asian "Anti-imperialist" activity and solicit informa-
tion from them on their activity, plans and views. It is possible that such
contacts may lead to a possibility of employment or association with some organ-
ization in this field, but whether or not he will be instructed to accept will
depend on the specific nature of the job and similar factors which cannot be
anticipated now.

5. DETAIL SUBJECT'S PROPOSED PP/PM TYPE USE OR DUTIES.

No PM duties or use is anticipated. No systematic CA exploitation is
anticipated given the risk of compromise. Selective CA exploitation within his cover
situation - i.e. as a provacateur or means to surface anti-Soviet material
from a "National Liberation" standpoint - will be continually possible.

SECTION VII

PROPOSED LIAISON OR OPERATIONAL ACTIVITY

1. DETAIL SUBJECT'S PROPOSED LIAISON TYPE CONTACT OR OPERATIONAL USE:

2. WHERE SUBJECT IS AN OFFICIAL MEMBER OF A FOREIGN GOVERNMENT:

None.

3. WHERE SUBJECT IS AN OFFICIAL MEMBER OF AN ODYOKE AGENCY:

SECTION VIII

AGENCY RELATIONSHIP WITH SUBJECT

1. EXPLAIN NATURE OF AGENCY RELATIONSHIP WITH SUBJECT: I.E. TRAINEE, OPPOSITE NUMBER, REMUNERATION. IF
PERSONNEL KNOWN TO SUBJECT.

Subj. has a contract for 1 June - September 1965 providing for salary of
$500.00 per month, non-accountable expenses of $100.00 per month and per diem
computed at the rate of $20 for days spent travelling to and from Algiers and
$10 for period of residence in Algiers. (The $10 rate represents an oral amendment
to the contract.) This is to be renegotiated o/a 1 September for extension to
two years WITH 30-day termination clause.

SECRET

--- Page 4 ---

14-0000

SECRET

SECTION IX

QUALIFICATIONS FOR OTHER OPERATIONS

1. INDICATE SPECIAL ABILITIES, TALENTS, OR QUALIFICATIONS POSSESSED BY SUBJECT WHICH COULD CONCEIVABLY BE OF VALUE
FOR OTHER OPERATIONS.

Subject's skill as writer/editor may qualify him for CA work.

SECTION X

COMMITMENTS

1. IF IT IS PROPOSED TO PAY SUBJECT A REGULAR SALARY, INDICATE THE WEEKLY AMOUNT. IF PAYMENT TO BE MADE IN EXCHANGE
COMMODITIES. SUBSIDY OR OTHER METHOD, SPECIFY AND GIVE DETAILS.

See Section VIII. In addition it is set forth in the Letter of Agreement
with Subject, that KUBARK will compensate Subject for any relocation of his family
required by virtue of an approved change in place of employment.

2. EXPLAIN ANY PROMISES. OTHERWISE NOT COVERED HEREIN, MADE TO SUBJECT. (Example: Commitments regarding evacuation
of subject and family.)

See Letter of Agreement. KUBARK recognizes its moral obligation to protect Subject
against any adverse action which might result from activities engaged in by Subject
at the request of KUBARK during his period of employment.

SECTION XI

CE AND SECURITY

1. INDICATE THE FIELD AGENCIES AND FIELD FILES WITH WHICH SUBJECT'S NAME HAS BEEN CHECKED AND THE RESULTS.

London, Algiers, Paris Station files; JAGUAR, ODENVY traces and reports are also
included in material available on Subject.

2. INDICATE OTHER INVESTIGATIVE MEASURES TAKEN TO VERIFY BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION FURNISHED BY SUBJECT.

Reports have been received by various QKOPERA contract agents.

3. INDICATE WHETHER OR NOT PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL OR OPERATIONAL AP-
PROVAL FOR SUBJECT'S USE HAS BEEN PREVIOUSLY OBTAINED.

NO POA required under the terms of CSI 10-5.

4. DATE APPROVAL OBTAINED

5. EVALUATE SUBJECT'S CHARACTER. RELIABILITY AND SECURITY. CITING EVIDENCE WHERE POSSIBLE.

Subject is a rather cynical intellectual. He has a keen sense of what is in his
best interest, however, and there is every reason to believe that he considers a
reliable and secure performance for KUBARK to be in his best interest. He showed
a good sense of security in communications during his recruitment period. LCFLUTTER
examination 13 June 1965 revealed no deception by Subject.

6. EXPLAIN ANY SITUATION OR INDISCRETION IN WHICH SUBJECT MAY HAVE BEEN INVOLVED WHICH MUST BE EVALUATED FROM A
CE/OPERATIONAL SECURITY VIEWPOINT.

While working for AFP in Paris (1958) Subject forged the signature of a personal
enemy, Ollie Harrington, to a letter to the editor calculated to get Harrington in
trouble with French authorities. Subject ashamed of this action.

SECTION XII

SUBJECT'S PERSONAL HABITS

1. USE OF LIQUOR. DRUGS: GAMBLING. PARAMOURS.

Liquor in moderation, no drugs. He is believed to have engaged in extra-marital
sexual affairs, but in a discreet manner.

SECRET

--- Page 5 ---

14-0000

SECRET

SECTION XIII

AVOCATIONAL INTERESTS

1. INDICATE SUBJECT'S HOBBIES OR INTEREST IN SPORTS, MUSIC. ETC.

None known

SECTION XIV

GENERAL

1. INDICATE WHETHER SUBJECT'S LANGUAGE ABILITIES AND OTHER CHARACTERISTICS, ARE SUCH AS HE COULD PASS AS A NATIVE
OF A COUNTRY OR REGION OTHER THAN HIS OWN. EXPLAIN.

Subject speaks fluent but foreign-accented French. He has a functional speaking
command of Spanish and Italian and can read German. Except for his language,
he could pass as an Algerian.

2. INDICATE WHETHER INFORMATION IN PRO PARTS I AND II WAS OBTAINED BY RESEARCH. CLANDESTINE ASSESSMENT. FILES,
CORRESPONDENCE OR OTHER MEANS.

All source, including extensive interview of Subject during the period
January - June 1965

3. IF OTHER THAN ROUTINE ACTION IS REQUIRED. IF AND WHEN TERMINATION OF SUBJECT IS EFFECTED. PLEASE EXPLAIN. (Also
see para. 43b, supra)

None anticipated

SECTION XV

EMERGENCY CONDITIONS RECONTACT ARRANGEMENTS

1. GIVE FULL DETAILS I.E. RECOGNITION SIGNALS, S/ HERE COULD CONTACT BE MADE: WHAT BONA FIDES COULD INDIVIDUAL
MAKING CONTACT USE?

Original method of contact was phone call to Subject's home (by Katzenbach) using
the name Wilson. Subsequent RODIGAST contacts have been laid on at prior meetings
and vary as to time and place. A signal is provided for (removal of glasses, which
both wear) should either wish to prevent the meeting. A simple carbon-pad type, low
level SW was used by Subject for sending emergency messages to a Paris drop. This
has been replaced by an open code system to cover specific requirements, laid on at
each meeting

SECTION XVI

MISCELLANEOUS OPERATIONAL DATA AND REMARKS

LCFLUTTER examination of Subject o/a 13 June (no deception reported PALP 4056).

DATE

29 June 1965

SIGNATURE OF APPROPRIATE SENIOR OFFICER

SECRET

Austin Goodrich (CI/ICG/Ops)

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000

ASSIFY TO FILE NO. 201-306052
REF TO FILE NO.
FILE RID ☐ RET. TO BRANCH
DESTROY ☐ SIG.
FROM
ALGIERS
ACTION
AF1
INFO
WE8
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES
GROUP 1
ADVANCE COPY
✓ RID COPY ☐
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED
UNIT
TIME
BY
ISSUED
☐ SLOTTED ☐ TUBED
FILE VR, WEG, EEG, CA2, CA/04, C1, C1/OPS, C1/IC2, C1/0A, FL, TSDG.
SECRET 290825Z
IMMEDIATE PALP DIR-SITE ALGI 6237
KUDESK ORPREY STEBONY ZIEET
REF PALP 4712
AN EX
ABSTRACT
LOCAL SECURITY EXPECTED BE GIVING SPECIAL ATTENTION ANYONE
PREVIOUSLY CONNECTED BEN BELLA, COMMUNISTS (LOCAL HUMANITE REP
FORCED DEPART YESTERDAY). HAVE NO ENTRY INFO EXCEPT BELIEVE LIKELY
BE EASIER FROM TUNISIA. SUGGEST YOU CHECK ALGI EMB PARI ON VISA POLICY.
FROM HERE ASSUME IF IT NOT EXPIRED CAN BE USED WITHOUT REVALIDATION.
SECRET
KAPPARENTLY WRONG REF. POSSIBLY PALP 4172 (IN 08695) INTENDED
** STEBONY UNABLE ENTER ALGI.
SECRET

201-306052
29 June 1965

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
TO
Chief, DESK; Chief, LCPIPIT
INFO
Chief, WE; Chief, AF; Chief, KUWOLF
FROM Chief of Station, London
SUBJECT
STEBONY JAGUAR
JAGUAR Report of STEBONY Surveillance
ACTION REQUIRED
SPATCH SYMBOL AND NO
OELA-43,459
HEADQUARTERS FILE NO.
201-
DATE
28 June 1965
RE: "43-3" - (CHECK "X" ONE)
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED
BY QUALRED HQ. DESK ONLY
REFERENCES
1. Pursuant to the suggestion contained in DIR 04341, 23 April 1965,
we asked JAGUAR to lay on such coverage as they could manage. After some
weeks has passed, and JAGUAR had not moved in this direction, we repeated
our request, pointing out that STEBCNY/1 would soon be leaving. Short-
handed and hampered by certain restrictions, JAGUAR moved in to do what
they could, and their coverage was due to start almost at the same time
as TIFFANY was to begin his meetings with S/1. We contacted JAGUAR and
told them to lay off (much to our chagrin) for the time being. This they
did, but then, without our being advised, they resumed their coverage.
We don't know exactly how long they actually had him in their sights,
but they have now given us a letter (text below) suggesting that he was
watched on 5, 6 and 7 June. A JAGUAR officer advised us informally
that S/1 "seemed to be out of town" for one or two days. (TIFFANY had
mentioned that he might take S/1 to the country for a day, but we don't
know whether in fact he did so.)
2. Here is JAGUAR's notes
"As explained in conversation on the 8th June, 1965, we
have received a report on S/1's movements during the period 5th -
7th June, 1965. Nothing of interest was learnt about his movements
on the 6th and 7th June, but you may be interested in the following
information relating to the 5th June:
"S/1 left his home at 11.25 and travelled by taxi to
the Haymarket where he entered the American Express offices.
He obtained a ticket for an air passage to Brussels and
a train journey to Basle, thence to Lausanne and Paris where
he was due to arrive on the 10th June. He paid £20-29-1d
for his ticket. He left the American Express at 12.30 and
subsequently returned home at 13.20 hours.
"He left home again at 14.05 and went to the Clarendon
Court Hotel in Maida Vale. He came out of the building
after five minutes and wandered around for twenty minutes
before returning to the hotel. He stayed there until 18.45
when he left alone and returned home.
3. The JAGUAR officer also told me that 9/1's contact at the Clarendon
Court Hotel was not identified by the surveillant, who in fact did not
know which room S/1 had visited. The contact, of course, was TIFFANY,
registered as GUSTKE.
George H. KATZENBACH
Distributions
A Chief, KUDESK
2-Chief, LCPIPIT
3-Chief, WE
✓ Chief, AP
2-Chief, KUWOLF
GROUP 1
Excludes automatic
downgrading and
declassification
FORM
10-53
53
LISE PREVIOUS EDITION
REPLACES FORMS
51-28 51-28A AND 51-29
WHICH ARE OBSOLETE
CS COPY
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
201-306052
29 JUN 1965
PAGE NO.
1

--- Page 8 ---

14-00000
SECRET/KAPOK
Chief, KUNOLF; Chief, KUDESK; Chief, AF
Chief, WE
Chief of Station, Algiers; Chief of Station, London.
Chief of Station, Paris/LCPIPIT
DIDORIC/Operational
QRFREY/Launching the Good Ship STREET
A. PALP 4056
B. PALP 4057
ACTION REQUESTED: Para 7,
Para 8, Para 4b.
201
SUMMARY
On 12 June 1965 STEBONY/1 met KUBARK
Career Agent Rufus F. RODIGAST
in Paris in accordance with instructions and for the next three days underwent
debriefings, briefings, an LCFLUTTER examination, and training in preparation
for his summer 1965 assignment to Algiers. At the conclusion of this period
LCPIPIT felt that S/1: had absorbed sufficiently the guidance given him,
had responded satisfactorily to Case Officer control, was apparently clear of
hostile direction, and was motivated to perform creditably throughout his three-
month trial employment.
ATTACHMENTS 9.S.C.:
B.
C.
Idens.
RODIGAST contact reports for 12,14415 June meetings
RODIGAST report on STEBONY/1's comments re Prents
Fanon Documentation Center, Filmm..
D. RODIGAST report on STEBONY/1's comments re the
British Guiana PPP office in London.
E.
Two published works by STEBONY/1
F. Copy of STEBONY/1 initial a/w letter to RODIGAST.
DISTRIBUTION:
2 - C/O w/atts. A,B,C,D,E,F u.s.c.
1 - C/KUCRSK w/atts. A,B,C,D,E,F u.s.c.
1 - C/AP w/atts. A,B,F u.s.c.
2 - COB/Algiers w/atts. A,B,F u.s.c.
2 - COS/London w/att. A u.s.c.
25 June 1965
SCHET /KAPOK
201

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000
SECRET/KAPOK
OPLA 2555
Personally, S/1 appeared to understand and to follow good security
practices by and large, but he was concerned that his wife now suspected his
of being up to something" of which she did not approve. In short, his overall
long-term security appeared oniert closest to OND. Nevertheless, he appeared
highly confident that previous denunciations to which he had been subjected
would not "stick" and that he could rapidly reestablish himself among revolutionary
circles.
His relationship to KUBARK over the longer period has apparently
been of considerable interest to him, to the extent that he stated he would be
interested in some sort of career status with KUBARK (with retirement benefits)
and perhaps one day a "less covert" position. At this time in our relationship
with S/1, however, LCPIPIT is concerned primarily with what to do with him
on 1 September 1965. In fact, in view of the 19-20 June developments in Algiers
and the possible postponement of most of the activities S/1 was to cover in
efforts to resestablish himself as a legitimate propagandist for national liber-
ation movements, KUBARK may find it not only feasible, but necessary, to revise
S/1's initial KUBARK mission.
In the days and weeks to come we will be reporting S/1's progress as
he relates his accomplishments and problems through / communications and in
meetings with RODIGAST. We shall be submitting recommendations on S/1's longer
term utility to KUBARK as we have more information upon which to make sound
judgments. We know that addresses will be subjecting the STEBONY operation
to constant evaluation and analysis throughout the summer, and we will appreciate
continued and coordinated guidance on how best to exploit the unique potential
represented by this asset.
1. LCPIPIT SUPPORT FOR THE STEBONY OPERATION
2. On 3 June 1965 STEBONY/1 signed a letter of agreement with
CDYOKE in London, in effect a contract with KUBARK. Upon signing the letter
of agreement and agreeing to undergo an LCFLUTTER examination, S/1 was introduced
to Rufus F. RODIGAST, a KUNWOLF Career Agent based in Paris who had been designated
S/1's outside case officer. RODIGAST is known to S/1 under the alias "Paul
Weller." RODIGAST sat at length with S/1 on 3, 5, and 6 June and made arrange-
ments for S/1 to meet him in Paris 12 June and undergo further training, briefing,
and security processing prior to embarking on a trial assignment of some 10 weeks.
2. On 12 June 1965 S/1 made contact with RODIGAST in Paris in
accordance with instructions and was taken immediately to a safehouse for
debriefing on his 8-11 June trip in West Europe and for training in the use
of S/W system #64. RODIGAST's Contact Report on this meeting and his report of
the debriefing are included in Attachment B (USC.). S/1 was passed $200.00
to make travel arrangements for his trip to Earth Africa. (See also PALP 4057).
3. On 13 June S/1 again met RODIGAST in accordance with instructions
and was taken to his LCFLUTTER examination at an LCPIPIT safehouse. The results
of this examination were forwarded in PALP 4056. In short, the outcome of the
examination was considered satisfactory for the proposed operational use of S/1.

--- Page 10 ---

14-00000

SECRET/KAPOK
OPLA 2555
4. On 14 and 15 June RODIGAST again met with S/1 for further
debriefings on the latter's contacts in Paris. RODIGAST then briefed him on
KUBARK requirements for MEMINCE and passed on the requirements of information
forwarded in DIR 18107 and DIR 18675. RODIGAST's reports on these meetings
are also included in Attachment B (USC). On 14 June S/1 was passed $500.00
as an advance on his per diem and travel expenses for his next meeting with
RODIGAST. RODIGAST considers S/1 an apt student who learned the S/W system
well in some two hours of instruction. Paris KURIOT Officer DONARY noted
some carelessness on S/1's part in the test messages, and this was subsequently
brought to S/1's attention in the overall security briefing he received from
RODIGAST.
5. The communications system established with S/1 consists of
pre-arranged meeting sites and times, a one-way S/W system, and the use of the
classified advertising section of the Algiers El Moudjahid (received daily in
Paris) by S/1 to signal a postponement of meeting dates. The one-way system was
chosen for this initial stage of the agent's operational relationship with KUBARK
for reasons of security; given the operational climate in Algiers and the
specific circles in which S/1 must move, and adding to the sudden political
upheaval in Algeria, S/1 would not be in a position to receive incoming commun-
ications safely. As of 23 June S/1 had initiated S/W correspondence, his initial
effort being clearly legible and the content operationally worthwhile. (See
Attachment F).
6. The next RODIGAST contact with S/1 is scheduled for 15 July in
Rome. (See OPLA 2538 for LCPIPIT's request for Rome Station support.) In
view of the events that have just taken place in Algeria the meeting may well
be concerned as much with rethinking S/1's operational objectives for the
period following 16 July as with debriefings, briefings, and passage of funds.
Even though latest indications are that Bandung II will pressed as scheduled,
it is questionable whether the AAJA or the Afro-Asian Women's conference will be
held in Algiers this summer. Moreover, there is no assurance at this writing
that MEMINCE will not be either postponed, canceled, or moved elsewhere. Add
to this the possibility that MEN A might be on the scene profiting from the
sudden rise in the political fortunes of his friends, and Algiers suddenly
loses some of its appeal as an area in which to carry out a meaningful test
of S/1's operational capabilities. The next three weeks will tell us much
and perhaps allay many of our apprehensions.
7. Nevertheless, RODIGAST must be prepared to handle a number of
eventualities in his 15 July meeting, not the least of these being a possible
revision of S/1's mission. The following possible alternatives present them-
selves; we ask Headquarters to address its attention to these and to other
developmental targets and to cable recommendations and guidance prior to 13
July:
A. S/1 to remain on site, continue his efforts to establish
credentials and find a job in Algiers, or elsewhere, in the national liberation
movement, and report on political developments in Algeria.
B. S/1 to travel to Dar es Salaam to look into the job offer
made some time ago by Dennis PHOMBEAH.
C. S/1 to proceed to Brussels to continue development of
(see OFLA 2541).
D. S/1 to return to London to write up reports and operational
proposals and polish up the translation of IZEN A's book.
E. S/1 to follow the MEMINCE caravan wherever it may lead (perhaps
Sofia?) and continue to look for job leads (outside the Bloc).

--- Page 11 ---

14-00000

8. The second RODIGAST meeting of the summer with S/1 is tentatively
scheduled for the second week in August, site to be determined. Addressees will
know that S/1's wife is expecting their third child a/a 11 August and that S/1
intends to be in London at that time if at all possible. Although he told
RODIGAST he would forego a visit to London at that time if it were operationally
imperative, we must assume that he will in fact be in London at that time
as he would find it difficult to justify his absence to his wife unless
he were to have a truly plausible and urgent cover assignment. We must therefore
anticipate in all likelihood that S/1 will be out of action for most of the
second week of August. In any event, RODIGAST will probably be able to meet
S/1 somewhere in Europe when S/1 returns to be with his wife and will at that
time hope to be in a position to discuss with S/1 the best employment of his
talents for the balance of the three-month contract period and to pursue with
him his longer range utilisation as well. Headquarters views, then, are needed
both with respect to the weeks immediately following the 15 July meeting
referred to in the previous paragraph as well as with respect to the post-
August period.
9. Administratively, LCPIPIT has so far funded S/1 to the extent
of $700.00 and has initiated action to have his salary and nonaccountable
operational advance deposited to his Swiss bank account. These payments are
being made in advance because of S/1's initially pressing financial needs.
It is our understanding that the 1 July and 1 August 1965 deposits of $600.00
to S/1's Swiss bank account will be affected securely and on time through
BIHAD/1 (see DIR 20944 and DIR 21703). Action was also taken to clarify the
question of S/1's per diem. We have received his initial accountings for travel,
per diem, and operational expenses for the period 8 - 12 June.
10. On the basis of information available to LCPIPIT, S/1 has received
the following payments from KUBARK since he was first contacted in London by
George H. KATZENBACH in January of this year (we have no record at hand of the
KUBARK funds passed S/1 by FAINMAN of KRIHEMSIS):
AMOUNT
DATE
COMMENT
$300.00
1/25/65 (o/a)
Ops payment per DIR 78506
400.00
2/23/65
Ops payment per CRIM 21869
400.00
April/65
Ops payment per DIR 39974
100.00
May/65
Ops payment per DIR 04341
100.00
6/2/65
Ops payment per DIR 04341 (signing bonus)
500.00
6/3/65
Ops salary advance for June/65
100.00
6/3/65
Nonaccountable ops advance for June/65
200.00
6/3/65
Travel and per diem advance
700.00
6/12/65
Travel Advance
500.00
6/14/65
Travel and per diem advance.
$3,100.00
11. Beginning with the Ops payment in May 1965, these payments have
been T/A'd to Headquarters for charge to YQHITCH. In addition to his present
salary of $500.00 per month and his $100.00 monthly nonaccountable advance for
operational expenses, S/1 is entitled to the following under the letter of
agreement he signed 3 June 1965:
a) necessary expenses incurred in connection with such operational
travel as may be directed or authorized by ODYOKE.
b) operational expenses in excess of $100.00 monthly nonaccountable
advance as are specifically authorized by ODYOKE.
c) compensation in an amount mutually agreed upon for the relocation
of 8/1 and his family to a new residence if such a relocation is considered
desirable by you and the U. S. Government.
d) per diem at the rate of $20.00 per day during periods of
authorized travel (i.e. during absence from London).

--- Page 12 ---

14-00000

SECRET/KAPOK
OPLA 2555
12. At this stage in KUBARK's relationship with STEBONY/1 it is
well to note certain factors that must be taken into consideration as we look
to devise a longer-term operation centered on his capabilities and potential.
For the sake of brevity, if not precision, we will discuss these factors under
the following headings: Assets, Motivation, Handling & Avoidance,
Security, Termination, and KUBARK Operational Requirements.
PERSONAL ASSETS:
13. STEBONY/1, as has been noted in OPLA 42,750 "really astonishes
with the breadth of his personal information and understanding... [of]
African affairs (especially in left-wing fields), European Trotskyists and
Communists and their general milieu, and Chinese-oriented international front
organizations. Similarly, he appears to be informed on certain Chicom efforts at
subversion and propaganda in Latin America. Combined with this knowledge and
understanding is a long list of personal contacts in left-wing revolutionary
circles and a reputation as an articulate and committed agitator for national
liberation movements.
