Tftoa-10078-10281 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Optional)

INTERNAL
USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET

FROM: EXTENSION | NO.
IP/CFS 1 B 4003 6740
TO: (Officer designation, room number, and DATE DATE
building)

OFFICER'S COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom INITIALS RECEIVED FORWARDED
to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

Our records indicate that the
attached document is classified
into a file currently charged to
you/your office.

Permanent [ ] Temporary [X]

Please file this document in the
201 [X] Subject [ ]
Project [ ] file since it may
be of immediate value. Destroy this
coversheet after material is filed.

If the file is no longer held by
your office, please indicate its
present location so we may correct
the charge.

If you do not know the location
of the file, please return this
coversheet together with the
attached material and fill in the
following:

Check if unable to locate [ ]

Suggest possible location:

Signature:
Office designation:

Tube
IP/CFS
FORM
OP-136
DT-6

USE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL [ ] INTERNAL, UNCLASSIFIED
CL BY: 062147

SECRET 1993.07.19.14:50:37:460280

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE
SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR DATE-TIME GROUP
STAFF 030016Z

CONF: INFO: FILE CITE
AF EURB, Cly
PS/E62 OPS/INT

TO: BRUSSELS INFO PRETORIA, DAR ES SALAAM.
WNINTEL SESCYTHE TOPHONE/1

REFS: A- OBBA-35455 DATED 19 AUGUST 1976 (BEING POUCHED PRETORIA)
B. DIRECTOR 9362264

1. HQS READ WITH INTEREST REF A REPORT BY TOPHONE/1 ON HIS
CONTACTS WITH SOUTH AFRICAN ANC AND PAC REPRESENTATIVES IN DAR ES
SALAAM. IN CONNECTION WITH REF B PROGRAM, HQS WOULD APPRECIATE
TOPHONE/1 MAINTAINING CONTACT WITH SUBJECTS REF A (PIK. LEBALLOS,
DAVID SIBEKO AND VUZ MAKE OF PAC AND MZIMKULU AMBROSE MAKIWANE OF
ANC) BY CORRESPONDENCE, TO OBTAIN INFORMATION ON PLANS AND ACTIVI-
TIES OF THEIR RESPECTIVE ORGANIZATIONS, AND LEADS AND INTRODUCTION
TO EUROPEAN BASED REPRESENTATIVES.

2. HQS WOULD ALSO APPRECIATE TOPHONE/1 EXPLOITING ANY EXISTING
CONTACTS OR ACCESS TO EUROPEAN BASED REPS OF ANC, PAC, SASM OR SASO
WITH VIEW TOWARD OBTAINING INTELLIGENCE AND ASSESSMENT DATA ON
PERSONALITIES FOR POSSIBLE RECRUITMENT.

3. FILE: 201-306052; 72-300-001; 72-300-004. E2 IMPDET.H

DATE: 26 OCTOBER 1976

ORIG: L. SANDS:RG
UNIT: AF/ES/S
EXT:

C/AF/ES/S
EUR/BNL

COORDINATING OFFICERS AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
CLASSIFICATION REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
SECRET E 2 IMPDET

CL BY: 062147

1993.07.19.14:50:37:460280
