TO: DD/S-HB

ATTENTION: Mr. Joseph E. Murphy, Jr. GG 14

SUBJECT: PUGH, Robert West [#789 656]

27 MAY 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR:

1. Reference is made to your request dated 4 January 1966 wherein you requested a Covert Security Approval to permit Subject's use as First Officer in the Far East under Project HBILKA/JBGREED.

2. In accordance with the provisions set forth in Clandestine Services Instruction No. 10-5 and Clandestine Services Instruction Field No. 10-5, a Covert Security Approval is granted for the use of the Subject as described in your request as set forth in paragraph 1, above.

3. Subjects of Covert Security Approvals are not to represent themselves as, nor are they to be represented as, employees of CIA.

4. Your attention is called to the fact that a Covert Security Approval does not constitute complete compliance with the provisions of CIA Regulation 10-3. Therefore, if you should desire at a later date to change the status or use of this individual, a request for approval to cover any proposed change should be submitted to this office.

5. This approval becomes invalid in the event the Subject's services are not utilized within six months of the date of this memorandum.

Victor R. White
Deputy Director of Security

---

14-00000
SECRET
27 MAY 1968

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Executive Officer
Project HBILKA/JBGREED

SUBJECT: [PUGH, Robert West] [#789 656]

1. Reference is made to your request dated 4 January 1966 for a Covert Security Approval to permit Subject's use as a First Officer in the Far East under Project HBILKA/JBGREED. Concurrent with issuance of the approval, the following is offered for your information.

2. Investigation has recently been completed with generally favorable results. However, Subject's military file indicated that he had been found unfit for duty due to excessive drinking, and had been allowed to retire in the best interests of the Navy. His Navy record stated that this drinking problem adversely affected his judgement, reliability, and personal behavior. This weakness had been discussed to no avail with Subject on several occasions. It should be noted that domestic inquiries developed no indication of over-indulgence since his departure from the military in October 1964.

3. Additionally, it was developed that Subject's brother Bartholomew, aka: Bart PUGH, was the Subject of an FBI investigation in 1941, which was conducted to resolve allegations regarding the loyalty of Subject's brother. Subject's brother was determined to have been associated with known Communists and was active in Communist matters in the Los Angeles, California area during this period of time. However, it was noted that these activities had caused a break with this individual and his family, who were not in sympathy with his viewpoints and activities. There was no information developed during the course of this investigation which indicated any association between Subject and his brother.

4. Dissemination of the above information should be limited to Staff and Project Officials on a strict "need to know" basis.

Jan P. O'Connell
Howard J. Osborn
Director of Security

---

14-0000
SECRET

DISPATCH

FROM: Chief, Far East

TO: Chief of Station, Taipei - ATTN: Chief, HEILKA

SUBJECT: HEILKA/KUSODA

1. A Covert Security Approval granted on 27 May 1966 however the following information is forwarded for your information. Investigation has recently been completed with generally favorable results. However, Subject's military file indicated that he had been found unfit for duty due to excessive drinking, and had been allowed to retire in the best interests of the Navy. His Navy record stated that this drinking problem adversely affected his judgment, reliability, and personal behavior. This weakness had been discussed to no avail with Subject on several occasions. It should be noted that domestic inquiries developed no indication of over-indulgence since his departure from the military in October 1964.

Additionally, it was developed that Subject's brother Bartholomew, aka: Bart, was the subject of an FBI investigation in 1941, which was conducted to resolve allegations regarding the loyalty of Subject's brother. Subject's brother was determined to have been associated with known Communists and was active in Communist matters in the Los Angeles, California area during this period of time. However, it was noted that these activities had caused a break with this individual and his family, who were not in sympathy with his viewpoints and activities. There was no information developed during the course of this investigation which indicated any association between Subject and his brother.

2. Dissemination of the above information should be limited to Staff and Project Officials on a strict "need to know" basis.

Attachment: (u/a/c)

Distribution: Orig & 2 - Addressee

HUGH C. PARDEE

---

14-0000

A Covert Security Approval was granted on 27 May 1966 however the following information is forwarded for your information.

Investigation has recently been completed with generally favorable results. However Subject's military file indicated that he had been found unfit for duty due to excessive drinking, and had been allowed to retire in the best interests of the Navy. His Navy record stated that this drinking problem adversely affected his judgment, reliability, and personal behavior. This weakness had been discussed to no avail with Subject on several occasions. It should be noted that domestic inquiries developed no indication of over-indulgence since his departure from the military in October 1964.

Additionally, it was developed that Subject's brother Bartholomew, aka: Bart, was the subject of an FBI investigation in 1941, which was conducted to resolve allegations regarding the loyalty of Subject's brother. Subject's brother was determined to have been associated with known Communists and was active in Communist matters in the Los Angeles, California area during this period of time. However, it was noted that these activities had caused a break with this individual and his family, who were not in sympathy with his viewpoints and activities. There was no information developed during the course of this investigation which indicated any association between Subject and his brother.

2. Dissemination of the above information should be limited to Staff and Project Officials on a strict "need to know" basis.

Attachment: (u/s/c)

Distribution: 1 - 08/13/1

HUGH C. PARDEE

13 July 1966

---

FCTS 8572
ROBERT WEST PUGH

---

14-00000
10/4/66
108 Chung Shan Road, North, 2nd Section
Taipei, Taiwan

27 September 1966

Mr. R. W. Pugh
Taipei, Taiwan

Dear Mr. Pugh

This letter will confirm acceptance of your resignation effective 27 September 1966 at the close of business.

A final pay check representing any unpaid salary due you less any debits you may have on the Company books will be forwarded to your bank:

Bank of America
4th Street
Santa Rosa, California.

You have given us your forwarding address as:

756 Baird Road
Santa Rosa, California
U. S. A.

We thank you for your past service and wish you success in the future.

Sincerely yours,

David R. Traylor
Director of Personnel

Mr. Pugh resigned effective 27 September 1966.
He indicated to us that he wished to quit flying and go home.

---

14-00000
SECRET

REQUEST FOR CANCELLATION

TO: OS/ID/I

SUBJECT'S NAME: (Pugh, Robert West)

DATE OF BIRTH: Unknown

FROM: DD/S-HB

PROJECT: JBGREED

Subject has resigned his employment with HEILKA.

for Jack M. Clark

---

REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OR INVESTIGATIVE ACTION

TO: CHIEF, CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION.
INVESTIGATION AND SUPPORT DIVISION. OFFICE OF SECURITY.
CHIEF PERSONNEL SECURITY DIVISION. OFFICE OF SECURITY

SUBJECT: PUGH, Robert West

FROM: DD/S-HB

PROJECT: JBGREED

DATE: 4 January 1966

1. TYPE ACTION REQUESTED:
[x] PROVISIONAL COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL

2. SPECIFIC AREA OF USE: Far East (General)

3. FULL DETAILS OF USE: First officer, HEILKA.

4. INVESTIGATION AND COVER
A. U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATION? NO
B. CIA INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATION? NO

IF NO INVESTIGATION OUTSIDE CIA, EXPLAIN FULLY

5. PRO AND GREEN LIST STATUS

6. RI TRACES: NO RECORD

7. DIVISION TRACES: NO RECORD

8. FIELD TRACES: NO RECORD

SIGNATURE OF CASE OFFICER: JOSEPH K. MURPHY
