[2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

104-10069-10132

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

RI/ANALYSIS

(Willow designation, com number, and CECO)

FUSA-3202

DATE

CAPICER'S INITIALS

NO.

DATE

COMMENTS (Number each common to that from the other. Draw a line across column after each comment)

PAXELRAD, EDOUARD

FE

Crely Iva

FE/0/004

HH. Desidus.

OCT 2/7 1988

RICHLY" Do not write below this line.

Barb. This is to Vering

I gave you on Atelie

Vais pus. & it seate

how luided in Los

wide tring & do chal

on how to cand inle

6. N. Engirala.

RIAN

RITY

RI/FI - 1400 L

1 CSC & 610 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

QP.1 0.98

11/8

ABSTRACT INDE

DATE

WL-1968

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

CASTORIAL USE ONLY

07483

IS BEST OBTAINABLE

*NOM APERTURE CARD

VIA AIR

SECRET

FB3202

TO: Chief of Station (Lima Penh)

INFO: Chief of Station, Viet Nam

Generals Operations

SUBJECT: Specific Information concerning Idea A

ACTION REQUIRED: None

In answer to request of Gregory O. & A, the following is a compendium of information from LEGAL FILE (TOPAZ) (1957 B) and VERGIL M. ACARICA (1959 C) concerning Idea A.

1. Description of subject: between 39 and 40 years old, about 6 feet tall, rather bald, small moustache, very strong and vigorous, fine white teeth, Jewish. Speaks quite good English. He is married and has a 9 or 10-year old daughter. He has a sister in New York who is a naturalized American citizen. Subject spends well, loves fine music, has an impressive library, reads constantly and paints very well.

2. Early during the war he was deported as a Jew to a German concentration camp (tattooed prisoner's identification number on right forearm - 674). He spent several horrible years and survived only by luck. Since 1945 he has spent most of his time in journalism and apparently in intelligence or related fields most of the time. [RSME, GEYUA] reports that (the first NAME report in hand 1950-2) was checked in by an offer from subject to most combined operations and was shortly afterwards declared SAFE by the French.

3. Subject took part as a civilian in the Atlante Operation, and, according to one report, went in with vast sums of money to make propaganda, buy off the opposition, etc. [SUITED] (Idea D) and ALES (Idea B) considered Idea A's accomplishment in Central Viet Nam among the four notable accomplishments in that area, particularly in respect to his contribution to the Vietnamese pacification program which he coordinated throughout the course of Operation Atlante.

4. Subject is an old friend of (Sale) Jongstenal, former chief of TUL. He was for a time (June-August 1959) in the National Security Division, during which time he proposed to VILLIERS joint operations--pool resources and experience--(similar to Caiot proposal, above) but VILLIERS refused, considered proposal pre-emptive maneuver.

5. March-April 1964 subject approached Station and USAID for military support for programs to support nucleus of a people's militia (sample rifle) in the Trung area. Information and correspondence on this proposal will be sent upon request.

SECRET

PRODUCTION IS BEST OBTAINABLE

FROM APERTURE CARD SUBMITTED

SECRET

In February-March 1959, subject was sent by the French on a special mission to Poland and East Germany to attend a conference.

7. Subject claims that while working alongside Mengendead on Operation JUTZER, the latter stated that he wanted to avoid Area Colgan. Subject stated "want to get rid of Ma for political" purposes. Immediately after Basniver.

8. At present Subject is of Frans Pozny as of 26 Braun Mr. SALE ON 20 June 1953. According to trurale Ideen, was

Qris & &s

As Qcf, FZ

As Station Mic

SECRET

136765

REPRODUCTION IS BEST OBTAINABLE

FROM APERTURE CARD SUBMITTED

SECRET
201-16765

REPRODUCTION IS BEST OBTAINABLE

FROM APERTURE CARD SUBMITTED
