20000A
104-10418-10378
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

H. D. STEEVES
SECRET

LEE HARVEY OSWALD CASE
29 January 1964

1.  According to a newspaper column in the Chicago American, 6 December 1963, Samuel Klauson, the then Legal Officer of the State Department, was immediately responsible for OSWALD's being permitted to return to the United States from the Soviet Union in America. Another individual to have been involved in the handling of OSWALD's case was Samuel Abram, Counsel of the American Embassy in Moscow.

2.  Abras CHAYES, #352234, who as of 16 February 1961 was described as "the new Counsel in State", was granted Security approval for liaison contact with J. Foster COLLINS (in the office of the Chief of the Covert Action Staff) on 6 March 1961. The request for CHAYES' clearance was a "Blanket" request to permit discussion with him of NBC 5412/2 matters on a need-to-know basis.

3.  In September 1961 there was a White House namecheck request on Antonia (Toni) Leigh CHAYES, nee HARDEE.

4.  In March 1962, CHAYES was granted a renewal of his liaison contact clearance with C/CA on a continuing basis. This time his contact was Archibald ROOSEVELT, Jr.

5.  On 10 February 1962, HUMAN EVENTS reported as follows with reference to CHAYES:

"SOFT ON COMMUNISM: Representative Francis E. Walter (R.-Pa.), Chairman of the House Committee on Un-American Activities, has scored the new State Department regulations on passports, claiming they would allow Reds denied passports to "rifle freely the confidential files of the FBI, the CIA and other investigative agencies." The man behind the new regulations, which Walter claims violate the Internal Security Act of 1950, is reportedly State's chief legal officer, Abram Chayes. Chayes, a Kennedy appointee, is an ex-Harvard professor who was Chester Bowles' top legal adviser when Bowles was Governor of Connecticut. Walter has introduced legislation to remedy the new passport regulations."

SECRET
GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification

--- Page 2 ---

13-00000
SECRET

6.  Samuel Griffin WEBB Jr., #74574, is referred to in a cable from the State Department that Ernce Frederick DAVIS, #551164, defected from the United States Army in Germany on 18 August 1960, and was Second Secretary of the Austrian Embassy in Moscow who was "on a contract employee an ARAGPIVE." WEBB's file on 2 June 1974; and advised in a cable that DAVIS' case to similar to that of 141# ÖGEMID, lived in the forest then for two years prior to making application for return to the United States. He did not expatriate after his defection.

7.  MISE was interested in MI in early 1953 and August 1953. He was granted a CSA to permit his use as a contract enlace on VS in New York on 13 February 1953, which had been cancellation on 25 March 1958.

8.  MISE was named as William Orville MUNSELL, 61693-DL, during an investigation of the latter for possible CIA employment in 1952. MISE, according to MUNSELL's landlady and social acquaintance in Washington, D.C. during the period of about a year which ended in April 1958, was the only person she knew by name with whom MUNSELL was friendly. According to the informant, MISE was a student at Columbia University whose address was 423 Furnald Hall. MUN Security disapproved for CIA employment in June 1952 because of his close association on a professional and social basis, while attending Denver University from 1946 to 1951, with persons of questionable loyalty. In November 1954, MUNSELL was of interest to project RJALIVE with reference to assignment to Dhahran, Saudi Arabia; however, the interested office withdrew their request after Security advised of the derogatory information regarding him.

9.  MISE from 1951 to 1954 attended Scarsdale High School in Scarsdale, New York, which was attacked by a Citizens Group, which alleged Communist influence in the school system. He had several questionable associates in addition to MUNSELL.

H. D. STEEVES
SECRET
GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification
