Okay, I have reviewed and combined the Tesseract and Google Vision OCR texts to produce the following cleaned-up version:

---

14-00000

104-10224-10006

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FILE TITLE/METER/VOLUME: McCord, James W., Jr.

INCLUSIVE DATES: 1951 - 1974

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: OP

ROOM: 5E 13

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE RECEIVED
DATE RETURNED
REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)
SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

SECRET

70AUGento

McCORD, JAMES

69MAYEND

69 Sep

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

TRANSMITTAL SLIP

TO:

ROOM NO.

NOTE FOR THE FILE

BUILDING

DATE 7/18/78

REMARKS

According to card notation in the files of C/BAS/OP the information referred to on the attached flag was transferred to the Office of the Inspector General and the Office of the Director of Security on 21 January 1965.

FROM: Honestita Soudenbelt, C/FIFE/OP

ROOM NO.

BUILDING

FORM NO. FLO 53 241

REPLACES FORM 16-8 WHICH MAY BE USED

OF FILE

Notation is on file with 16 Staff, Office of Quarters Eye, extension

EXTENSION

Hearing transcript and related papers

XX Other EYES ONLY material

THIS MEMO MUST REMAIN ON TOP OF FILE

McCORD, JAMES W., JR.

S-E-C-R-E-T

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

05 M7 so f

25 CHA

31 AUG 1970

703577

15-4562

Mr. James W. McCord, Jr.

7 Winder Court

Rockville, Maryland 20850

Dear Jim:

As you bring to a close more than twenty-five years of service to your country, I want to join your friends and co-workers in wishing you well and hoping that you find the years ahead filled with enjoyment and satisfaction.

It takes the conscientious efforts of many people to do the important work of this Agency. You leave with the knowledge that you have personally contributed notably to our success in carrying out our mission. Your faithful and loyal support has measured up to the high ideals and traditions of the Federal service.

May I express to you my appreciation and extend my best wishes for the years ahead.

Sincerely,

Richard Helms

Director

Distribution:

0 - Addressee

1 - DDCI

1 - ER Director of Personnel

1 - AC/EAB/OS

1 - D/Pers

1 - OPF

1 - ROB Soft File

1 - ROB Reader

B. Fisher

672061978

Concur: AC/EAB/OS

OP/RAD/ROB/MRDameronijat/3257 (19 August 1970)

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

31 August 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Retirement - James W. McCord, Jr.

1. The retirement of Subject, effected as a result of a memorandum from the Head of his Career Service stating that he is surplus to the needs of the Service and that his retirement will be recommended to the Director under the provisions of the CIA Retirement and Disability System pertaining to involuntary retirement, in no way implies an adverse action. Subject signed an application for retirement of his own volition in order to qualify for an immediate retirement annuity. The liberalized criteria for such separations was established by the Agency to parallel similar actions under the Civil Service Retirement System in accordance with FPM Letter No. 831-23, dated 10 December 1969.

2. Any inquiry received concerning the nature of the separation of Subject from the Agency should be confirmed simply as a retirement.

Francis G. Monan

Chief, Retirement Affairs Division

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

--- Page 5 ---

SECRET

(When Filled In)

DATE PREPARED

2 July 1970

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

1. SERIAL NUMBER 2. NAME (Last, First, Middle)

058124 MCCORD, James W., Jr.

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION 4. EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED 5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

Retirement (Involuntary) Under CIA MONTH DAY YEAR 7. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS NO.

Retirement and Disability System 08 31 70 CHARGEABLE

FUNDS 8. LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by Office of Personnel)

XX TO V 9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS 10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION PL 88-643 Sec. 235(a)

CF TO V DDS/Office of Security Washington, D. C.

DD/Physical, Technical & Overseas Security

Physical Security Division

Office of the Chief

11. POSITION TITLE 12. POSITION NUMBER 13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

Physical Security Officer 0070 SS

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, etc.) 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16. GRADE AND STEP 17. SALARY OR RATE

GS 1810.07 15 8 28226- 28487

18. REMARKS

Subject's last working day will be 31 August 1970. See attached memos.

Retirement is submitted pursuant to a request from the Head of the Security Career Service.

Includes on agency reserve hist

Hee Ose 1/8/70.

cc/CSB - Info

cc/Payroll

18A. SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL DATE SIGNED 18B. SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING OFFICIAL DATE SIGNED

Edward K. O'Malley C/PB/A&TS/OS

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19. ACTION 20. EMPLOY. 21. OFFICE CODING 22. STATION 23. INTEGREE 24. NOTES 25. DATE OF BIRTH 26. DATE OF GRADE 27. DATE OF LEI 28. DATE EXPIRES

CODE CODE CODE NUMERIC ALPHABETIC MO. DA. YR. MO. DA. YR. MO. DA. YR. MO. DA. YR.

(001) (001) 01 26 24

31. SEPARATION 32. CONNECTION/CANCELLATION DATA 33. SECURITY 34. SEX 35. VET. PREFERENCE 36. SERV. COMP. DATE 37. LONG COMP. DATE 38. CAREER CATEGORY 39. FEGLI/HEALTH INSURANCE 40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

DATA CODE REFERENCE CODE CODE CODE CODE

41. PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT SERVICE 42. LEAVE CAT. 43. FEDERAL TAX DATA 44. STATE TAX DATA

CODE NO. TAX EXEMPTIONS FORM EXECUTED CODE STATE CODE FORM EXECUTED CODE

FORM 1152 USE PREVIOUS EDITION SECRET

(4-51)

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000

BSJr 14 SEPT 70

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

1. SERIAL NUMBER 2. NAME (LAST, FIRST, MIDDLE)

058124 MCCORD JAMES W UR

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION 4. EFFECTIVE DATE 5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

RETIREMENT- INVOLUNTARY-UNDER CIA MO DAY YR 7. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS NO

RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYS-CORR 08 31 70 REGULAR CHARGEABLE

FUNDS 8. CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

V TO V 9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS 10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION PL 88-643 SEC 235A

CF TO V

11. POSITION TITLE 12. POSITION NUMBER 13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

PHYSICAL SEC OF 0070 SS

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, etc.) 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16. GRADE AND STEP 17. SALARY OR RATE

GS 1810.07 15 9 28989

18. REMARKS

THIS ACTION CORRECTS FORM 1150 EFFECTIVE DATE 08/31/70 AS FOLLOWS:

ITEM 16, GRADE AND STEP WHICH READ 15 8 TO READ 15 9; AND ITEM 17,

SALARY OR RATE WHICH READ 29228 TO READ 28989.

19. SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

S. WATTLES

FORM Use Previous SECRET

1150 Edition

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000

BSJr 27 AUG 70

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

1. SERIAL NUMBER 2. NAME (LAST, FIRST, MIDDLE)

058124 MCCORD JAMES W JR

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION 4. EFFECTIVE DATE 5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

RET J REMENT- INVOLUNTARY- UNDER CIA MO DAY YR 7. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS NO

RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM 08 31 70 REGULAR CHARGEABLE

FUNDS 8. CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

V TO V 9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS 10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION PL 88-643 SEC 235A

CF TO V

11. POSITION TITLE 12. POSITION NUMBER 13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

PHYSICAL SEC OF 0070 SS

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, etc.) 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16. GRADE AND STEP 17. SALARY OR RATE

GS 1810.07 15 8 28226

18. REMARKS

FORM Use Previous SECRET

1150 Edition

--- Page 8 ---

14-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

1 September 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. James W. McCord, Jr.

THROUGH: Deputy Director for Support

THROUGH: Director of Security

SUBJECT: Certificate of Distinction

1. The Honor and Merit Awards Board is pleased to notify you that the award named above will be conferred on you in recognition of the excellent service you have rendered this Agency. Security considerations relevant to the award are explained in the attached memorandum from the Office of Security.

2. The award will be presented to you at a ceremony to be held in the near future. Members of your family, Agency associates, and intimate friends who are aware of your Agency affiliation may attend the ceremony.

3. Invitations to the ceremony will be extended by the Secretariat, Honor and Merit Awards Board, Office of Personnel, extension 3645. Please send to that office the names and phone numbers of the guests you would like to have invited, and indicate any dates on which you would not be available for such a ceremony.

/Sgd/ Robert M. Gaynor

ROBERT M. GAYNOR

Recorder

Honor and Merit Awards Board

Distribution:

Orig - Addressee

1 - D/S

1 - D/Pers Reader Chrono/OPF

1 - Sec't, HMAB

1 - Recorder, HMAB

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000

REPORT OF HONOR AND MERIT AWARDS BOARD

The Honor and Merit Awards Board having considered

NAME (Last-First-Middle) SERVICE OF ASSIGNMENT

McCORD, James Walter, Jr. DDS/OS

TITLE OF ACHIEVEMENT DATE TO BE AWARDED

Certificate of Distinction 11 August 1970

FOR HEROIC ACTION OR FOR MERITORIOUS SERVICE OR ACHIEVEMENT DURING THE PERIOD

Aug 1951 - Present

☑ RECOMMENDS APPROVAL

☐ DOES NOT RECOMMEND APPROVAL

RECOMMENDS AWARD OF: UNCLASSIFIED CITATION

Mr. James W. McCord, Jr., is hereby awarded the Certificate of

Distinction in recognition of his exemplary performance of duty for

over nineteen years. In a variety of assignments, both domestic and

abroad, Mr. McCord has displayed unusual imagination, ingenuity, and

effectiveness in accomplishing his assigned tasks. His achievements

in the fields of audio-countermeasure techniques and physical and

technical security are particularly noteworthy and represent a marked

contribution to the mission of the Agency. His professionalism in the

conduct of his work upholds the best traditions of service and reflects

great credit on him and the Office of Security.

REMARKS

(Recommendation approved by DD/S on 23 July 1970)

APPROVED

SIGNATURE /s/ Robert S. Wattles

TYPED NAME OF CHAIRMAN, HONOR AND MERIT AWARDS BOARD

R. E. Cushman, Jr. ROBERT S. WATTLES

DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE

SIGNATURE

25 AUG 1970

DATE

TYPED NAME OF OFFICER PREPARING FORM

ROBERT M. GAYNOR

FORM 382 (USE PREVIOUS EDITION)

--- Page 10 ---

14-00000

CERTIFICATION OF SEPARATING EMPLOYEE

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

ATTACH TO OFFICIAL PERSONNEL FOLDER

Name (Last-First-Middle)

MCCORD JAMES W JR

I hereby acknowledge the receipt of the following forms and/or information concerning my

separation from CIA as indicated, by check mark:

1. Stand: Form 8 (Notice to Federal Employee about Unemployment Compensation).

2. Standard Form 55 (Notice of Conversion Privilege, Federal Employees' Group

Life Insurance).

3. Standard Form 56 (Agency Certification of Insurance Status, Federal Employers'

Group Life Insurance Act of 1954).

4. Standard Form 2802 (Application for Refund of Retirement Deductions).

5. Form 2595 (Authorization for Disposition of Paychecks).

6. Applicable to returnee (resignee from overseas assignment).

7. I have been advised of my right to have a medical examination before

my separation from this Agency and of the importance of such a medical

check to my health and well-being.

Appointment arranged with Office of Medical Services.

Appointment for Office of Medical Services examination declined.

8. I have been informed of "conflict of interests" policy of the Agency and

foresee no problem in this regard concerning new employment.

9. Form 71 (Application for Leave).

10. CSC Pamphlet 51 (Re-employment Rights of Federal Employees Performing Armed

Forces Duty).

11. Instructions for returning to duty from Extended Leave or Active Military

Service.

Signature of Employee Date Signed

Address (Street, City, State, Zip Code)

7 Winder Court Rockville, Maryland

SECRET

Overt

Covert

--- Page 11 ---

14-00000

SECRET

AUG 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. James W. McCord, Jr.

THROUGH: Head of SS Career Service

SUBJECT: Notification of Approval of

Involuntary Retirement

1. This is to inform you that the Director of Central Intelligence

has approved the recommendation of your Career Service that you be

involuntarily retired under the CIA Retirement and Disability System.

2. Your retirement will become effective 31 August 1970. Your

annuity will commence as of 1 September 1970 and is payable on 1 October

1970. You may be assured that every effort will be made to expedite

delivery of your first check following completion of the administrative

details necessary to process your retirement.

3. You will receive a lump-sum payment for your accrued annual

leave up to 30 days or for whatever amount of leave credit you carried

over from the last leave year if that amount is more than 30 days.

Robert S. Wattles

Director of Personnel

Distribution:

0 - Addressee

1 - D/Pers

1 - OPF

1 - ROB Soft File

1 - ROB Reader

OP/RAD/ROB/MRDameronijat/3257 (10 Aug 70)

SECRET

Excludes

automatic

declassifi

cation

--- Page 12 ---

14-00000

SECRET

20 JUL 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Official Cover Branch, Central Cover

Staff, DD/P

THROUGH: Chief, Administration and Training Staff, OS

SUBJECT: Summary of Agency Employment - James W.

McCord, Jr.

REFERENCE: Memorandum to Chief, Administrative Staff/

OS from C/OCB/CCS, dated 14 July 1970,

Subject, James W. McCord, Jr.

Attached hereto is a summary of Agency Employment for

Mr. James W. McCord, Jr., who is retiring 31 August 1970.

James P. O'Connell

Deputy Director of Security (PTOS)

Att.

--- Page 13 ---

14-00000

SECRET

SUMMARY OF AGENCY EMPLOYMENT

JAMES W. McCORD, JR.

Service with the Central Intelligence Agency began on 22

August 1951 and continued through 31 August 1970. During his

career there was a variety of assignments involving investigations,

research and report writing, technical and physical security programs

and a two year tour overseas.

As an investigator during the first two years of employment,

there was wide involvement in a variety of support activities requiring

initiative and ingenuity.

During the seven years engaged in research and report writing,

there was much independence of action and success depended on

initiative, imagination and resourcefulness in pioneering new areas

of interest. Beginning in May 1957, managerial responsibilities

began with appointment to a Deputy Chief position of a research staff

of some six professional and clerical personnel.

When serving overseas, responsibilities were managerial in

nature as Chief of a regional staff of some ten professional and

clerical personnel providing a full spectrum of security support.

From August 1964 to June 1965 he attended the Air War

College as representative of the Agency.

Since 1965 two vital line positions were held involving the

Agency's programs in the technical and physical security fields.

In heading up the technical security division, from 1965 to

1968, he had primary supervisory responsibility for some 40

professional and clerical personnel, preparing the budget and pro-

grams for the Agency's technical security program, and managing

the obligating of authorized funding to assure that approved programs

and goals were met. He was instrumental in guiding the development

of new approaches, in establishing new training concepts and in

bringing the Agency to a position of recognized leadership in this

field.

--- Page 14 ---

14-00000

SECRET

Since October 1968, as Chief of a division responsible for

the Agency's physical security program he had primary responsibility

for the supervision of some 70 professional and clerical personnel,

together with the programming, budgeting and implementing of the

total physical security program of the Agency. As a result of his

technological experience, he developed and implemented physical

security programs which produced for the Agency a physical security

posture of pre-eminent quality within the US Government.

SECRET

--- Page 15 ---

14-00000

SECRET

(When Filled In)

DATE PREPARED

18 June 1970

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

1. SERIAL NUMBER 2. NAME (Last, First, Middle)

058124 MCCORD, JAMES W., JR.

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION 4. EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED 5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

DESIGNATION AS A PARTICIPANT IN THE MONTH DAY YEAR 7. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS NO.

CIA RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM 06 28 70 REGULAR

FUNDS 8. LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by Office of Personnel)

V TO V NO CHARGE- PL 88-643 Sect. 203

CF TO V ABLE

9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS 10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

DDS/SECURITY WASHINGTON, D. C.

11. POSITION TITLE 12. POSITION NUMBER 13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

SS

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, etc.) 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16. GRADE AND STEP 17. SALARY OR RATE

GS $

18. REMARKS

18A. SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL DATE SIGNED 18B. SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING OFFICER DATE SIGNED

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19. ACTION 20. EMPLOY. 21. OFFICE CODING 22. STATION 23. INTEGREE 24. NOTES 25. DATE OF BIRTH 26. DATE OF GRADE 27. DATE OF LEI 28. DATE EXPIRES

CODE CODE CODE NUMERIC ALPHABETIC MO. DA. YR. MO. DA. YR. MO. DA. YR. MO. DA. YR.

31. SEPARATION 32. CONNECTION/CANCELLATION DATA 33. SECURITY 34. SEX 35. VET. PREFERENCE 36. SERV. COMP. DATE 37. LONG COMP. DATE 38. CAREER CATEGORY 39. FEGLI/HEALTH INSURANCE 40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

DATA CODE REFERENCE CODE REQ. NO. CODE MO. DA. YR. MO. DA. YR. CODE

41. PREVIOUS GOVERNMENT SERVICE DATA 42. LEAVE CAT. 43. FEDERAL TAX DATA 44. STATE TAX DATA

CODE NO. TAX EXEMPTIONS FORM EXECUTED CODE STATE CODE FORM EXECUTED CODE

45. POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION 46. OP APPROVAL 47. GROUP 1

FORM 1152 USE PREVIOUS EDITION SECRET

1-66

--- Page 16 ---

14-0000

7 Winder Court

Rockville, Maryland 20850

Dear Jim:

As you bring to a close more than twenty-five years of service to your country, I want to join your friends and co-workers in wishing you well and hoping that you find the years ahead filled with enjoyment and satisfaction.

It takes the conscientious efforts of many people to do the important work of this agency. You leave with the knowledge that you have personally contributed notably to our success in carrying out our mission. Your faithful and loyal support has measured up to the high ideals and traditions of the Federal service.

May I express to you my appreciation and extend my best wishes for the years ahead.

Sincerely,

Richard Helms

Director

Distribution:

0 - Addressee B. Fisher 27 AUG 1970

1 - DDCI Originator:

1 - ER Director of Personnel

1 - AC/EAB/GS

1 - D/Pers

1 - OPF

1 - ROB Soft File Concur:

1 - ROB Reader AC/EAB/GS

OP/RAD/ROB/MRDameronijat/3257 (19 August 1970)

--- Page 17 ---

14-0000

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

SUBJECT: Recommendation for Involuntary Retirement -

Mr. James W. McCord, Jr.

REFERENCE: Memorandum for Mr. James W. McCord, Jr.

from Director of Security dated 30 June

1970, same subject

1. This memorandum submits a recommendation for your approval;

this recommendation is contained in paragraph 4.

2. Mr. James W. McCord, Jr., GS-15, Physical Security Officer,

Office of Security, Support Services, has been recommended for invol-

untary retirement under the provisions of Headquarters Regulation 20-50m.

The purpose of this proposed retirement, to which Mr. McCord is agree-

able, is to assist the Office of Security to reduce its personnel surplus. If

such retirement is approved, Mr. McCord requests an effective date of

31 August 1970.

3. Mr. McCord has been designated a participant in the CIA Retirement

and Disability System and will meet the technical requirements for invol-

untary retirement under the System prior to the effective date requested.

He is 46 years old and will complete 25 years of Federal service on

21 August 1970. This service includes over 19 years with the Agency of

which 5 years were in qualifying service. The CIA Retirement Board has

recommended that his involuntary retirement be approved.

4. It is recommended that you approve the involuntary retirement

of Mr. James W. McCord, Jr. under the provisions of Headquarters

Regulation 20-50m.

Robert S. Wattles

Director of Personnel

The recommendation contained in paragraph 4 is approved:

/s/ Richard Helms 9 AUG 1970

Director of Central Intelligence Date

SECRET

--- Page 18 ---

14-00000

JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR SPECIAL WARFARE (A)

REQUEST AND AUTHORIZATION FOR ACTIVE DUTY TRAINING/ACTIVE DUTY TOUR

1. TYPE OF ORDER
TO: HQ COMD USAF (PRP)
FROM: HQ COMD USAF (PRP-A)
BY DIRECTION OF THE PRESIDENT
BOARDED BY THE SEC
OF THE AIR STAT
2. GRADE, LAST NAME, FIRST, MIDDLE, INITIAL, AFSC
LT COLONEL MCCORD, JAMES W. JR. 11. SSAN: 453-22-4741
3. PARSE 4. RATINO
PRESENT ADDRESS
7 Winder Court
Rockville, Maryland 20850
Aircraft Observer
9. ON FLYING STATUS
☐ YES XX NO
10. PURPOSE (Type)
✓ ANNUAL TOUR. ☐ SCHOOL TOUR
(Indicate specific school course or special tour titles)
SPECIAL TOUR OF AUTHORITY
11. UNIT OF ATTACHMENT
HQ USAF (AFESS-FE)
Washington, DC
12. INDIVIDUAL WILL REPORT TO
JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR SPECIAL WARFARE (A)
Student Dormitory, Bldg D-3601, Reilly Street and
Bastogne Drive, Ft Bragg, North Carolina 28308
13. INDIVIDUAL ☐ IS NOT AUTHORIZED TO PARTICIPATE IN
FLYING ACTIVITIES DURING THE PERIOD OF ACTIVE DUTY COVERED
BY THIS ORDER.
14. FROM PRESENT ADDRESS NLT 15. REPORTING
TIME AND DATE
1600 19 Jan 70
17. AUTHORITY
COVERED
AFM 35-3
18. TRANSPORTATION
AUTHORIZED
SUFFI INT
DIRECTED
19. TDY, 12M, PAY, ALLANCES, AND TRAVEL CHARGEABLE TO:
PAY & ALWS: 5703700 500 4261 P 723.01 (P&A) $594700
TRAVEL & PER DIEM: 5703700 500 6262 P 723.07 40861 40961 $668100
Security Clearance - Top SECRET Training Category - P Pay Group - D
For period of this active duty only, mbr and dependents authorized Commissary
(Para la, AFR 145-15), Base Exchange (Para 3-8a(1), AFR 147-14) & Base Theater
(Para 4-19, AFR 34-32) privileges.
21. APPROVING OFFICIAL (Typed Name and Grade)
22. SIGNATURE
16 Dec 69
23. PHONE 24.
4379/4279
E. E. THAYER, GS-12
DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
HEADQUARTERS, HEADQUARTERS COMMAND USAF
BOLLING AIR FORCE BASE, DC 20332
A 2073
25. DATE
16 Dec 69
FOR THE COMMANDER
26. DISTRIBUTION:
27. ELEMENT OF ORGANIZATION AUTHENTICATING OFFICIAL
- Individual
- Indiv Pers Rec
- Unit of Asgmt
- Unit of Atch
- ARPC, 3800 York St, Denver, CO 80205
- HQ AFRES (CAFO), Dobbins AFB, GA 30060
- Hq AFRES ( ) Robins AFB, Ga.
E. E. THAYER
Asst Director for Administration
AF
FORM
1 AUG 61
938
(PREVIOUS EDITION MAY BE USED)

--- Page 19 ---

14-0000

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mrs. John W. Coffey

MC CORD, James

I want to express my appreciation to you personally

and through you to Howard Osborn and the other of your as-

sociates who contributed so effectively to the visit of the

President on Friday. The arrangements were flawless; the

security first-class without being intrusive. I am well

aware of the amount of work and planning which went into

the successful outcome. I particularly want to commend the

good sense and judgment which prevailed throughout. It is

easy to push people around. It is difficult to take proper

precautions and at the same time make everyone feel as though

it were his or her party.

Thank you very much. Well done!

/s/ Richard Helms

Director

--- Page 20 ---

14-00000

SECRET

10 March 1969

MEMORANDUM FOR: DD/PTOS

SUBJECT: Security Support During

President Nixon's Visit

1. I have received numerous and highly complimentary com-

ments from the Director, the Executive Director and the Acting

Deputy Director for Support for the role this Office played during the

visit of President Nixon to the Agency on 7 March 1969. In addition,

Mr. Don Gautreau, the Secret Service Agent responsible for protec-

tive measures during the visit, told me that he had never met a more

highly professional group of personnel than our Security officers.

He was impressed with the comprehensive coverage inherent in our

protective measures.

2. Our performance on Friday was smooth, efficient and

effective and once more is a tribute to our ability to rise to any

occasion. This is possible only because of the quality of the effort

put forth by each Security Officer who participated. I am very proud

of all of you and I would like to particularly commend Jim McCord,

Bill Wilkinson and Jim Greene for the work they did in planning our

role in the ceremonies. Equally impressive was the performance of

Hollis Whitaker and his people in the provision of audio coverage of

the event.

3. I would like to have copies of this memorandum placed in

the official Personnel File of every individual who participated in

making this event such a great success.

/s/ Howard J. Osborn

Director of Security

SECRET

--- Page 21 ---

14-00000

SECRET

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

1. SERIAL NUMBER 2. NAME (Last First Middle)

058124 MCCORD, James W., Jr.

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION 4. EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED 5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

6. FUNDS 7. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS NO. 8. LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by Office of Personnel)

ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS 10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

11. POSITION TITLE 12. POSITION NUMBER 13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, etc.) 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16. GRADE AND STEP 17. SALARY OR RATE

18. REMARKS

18A. SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL DATE SIGNED 18B. SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING OFFICIAL DATE SIGNED

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19. ACTION 20. EMPLOY. 21. OFFICE CODING 22. STATION 23. INTEGREE 24. NOTES 25. DATE OF BIRTH 26. DATE OF GRADE 27. DATE OF LEI 28. DATE EXPIRES

CODE CODE CODE NUMERIC ALPHABETIC MO. DA. YR. MO. DA. YR. MO. DA. YR. MO. DA. YR.

31. SEPARATION 32. CONNECTION/CANCELLATION DATA 33. SECURITY 34. SEX 35. VET. PREFERENCE 36. SERV. COMP. DATE 37. LONG COMP. DATE 38. CAREER CATEGORY 39. FEGLI/HEALTH INSURANCE 40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

DATA CODE REFERENCE CODE REQ. NO. CODE MO. DA. YR. MO. DA. YR. CODE

41. PREVIOUS GOVERNMENT SERVICE DATA 42. LEAVE CAT. 43. FEDERAL TAX DATA 44. STATE TAX DATA

CODE NO. TAX EXEMPTIONS FORM EXECUTED CODE STATE CODE FORM EXECUTED CODE

45. POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION 46. OP APPROVAL 47. GROUP 1

FORM 1152 USE PREVIOUS EDITION

SECRET

--- Page 22 ---

14-00000

TREASURY DEPARTMENT

UNITED STATES SECRET SERVICE

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR WASHINGTON, D.C. 20226

September 5, 1968

Mr. Howard J. Osborn

Director of Security

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D. C.

Dear Mr. Osborn:

This letter is in appreciation for the valuable

assistance provided by your office during the recent

Republican National Convention at Miami Beach,

Florida.

I would particularly like to commend James W.

McCord and the following members of his Divisions

George Schwegman

Carroll Helkerson

Their dedication and outstanding degree of techni-

cal competence contributed immeasurably to the

success of our mission.

Sincerely,

Thomas J. Kelley

Assistant Director

--- Page 23 ---

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

NATIONAL COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM

OFFICE OF THE MANAGER

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20305

IN REPLY REFER TO:

NCS-DO

21 NOV 1967

Mr. Howard Osborn

Director of Security

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D. C. 20505

Dear Mr. Osborn:

On 8 November 1967, Messrs. James McCord, William Flannery,

and William Marcy of your agency provided a most inter-

esting and informative briefing on the subject, "Audio

Threat by the Communist Block". Included in this presen-

tation was the display of the latest electronic techniques

and technical developments in the area of audio threat.

This presentation was most enlightening and proved to be

of keen interest to the Agency HCS Representatives, staff

members of the Office of the Manager, NCS and selected

key personnel of the Defense Communications Agency.

We very much appreciate the availability of the above

mentioned personnel and I should like to commend them on

their excellent manner of presentation and thorough knowledge

of the subject matter.

Sincerely,

I. R. Obenchain, Jr.

I. R. OBENCHAIN, JR.

Brigadier General, USA

Assistant Deputy Manager,

National Communications System

Copy to:

Mr. Georgia

CONFIDENTIAL

--- Page 24 ---

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT:

FROM:

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

Commendation for Messrs. Frank Farrell, James McCord

and their Assistants.

Acting Director of Security

Room 4E60

TO: (Office designation, name, and signature)

DATE

INITIALS

1. DD/PTOS

2. D/S

3. Ch Phys Sec Div

4. C/ARTS

COMMENTS

It is a pleasure to commend

Messrs. Frank Farrell, James

McCord and their Assistants for

the