```markdown
104-10221-10002
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
14-00000
FILE TEPER/NBH
Victor Rico Galan Vol III
201-05-336474
INCLUSIVE DATES:
Sept 1966-20 Jul 1972
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: C1/EXO.
HOON: 3257
DELETIONS, IF ANY
DATE
RECEIVED RETURN
DRIEVOTESTEDTRY
(EIN)
1 MAY
Victor
RICO Calan
ENIGNATURE OF
REVIEWERG OFFICIAL
NOT REVIEWED BY HISCAL.
JATIGER
320-336274
VOL I

---

14-00000

VICTOR RICO GALAN
FEB. 1981
CE CARES

---

14-00000
(n)
201-336474
Card #1
V KASTUKEVICH; and Sucy, Sor, told Enrique of the DIF (Buro de Investi-
BOKDES
16 Jan 57. gaciones), that invitations to a recent reception were personal and that BCDES should
tell Sergio NOVELL and Subj. DOI: 7 Nov 56.
24-16 Forwarded a copy of a anti-US mag. (Editor-in-chief is named Victor RICO
53 Galan, prob Subj)
6240 persons in above two dispatches reply identifiable. No hos traces
on either Victor RICO or Victor 20 Galan.
Victor RICO Galan, writer for Siempre,
tor at 1st mix of Political
thru which Com de sympathizers hope
(0-3)
25 Feb 60 Study Circle which has been formed in
take part in student council elections.
Victor Rico Galan among those journalists who on 14 July elected to the
Mexican preparatory committee for the International Congress of
Comments, hatto bin/ustria during October 1960 (LIFTER D-2)A
Leftist Journalierachelated withr
HYN
29
CS-
Politific semi-monthly)
Manuel MARCU Farinas (dir-gen of Politic leftist semi-monthly magazine)
planned send Subar of his report
- Derity laxcals) with problem.
receive Subf. and thanked FARCLE for his 1
staff) to su CZ isdres
SANCHEZ said he wld be very happy to
sep article praising him. (INVOY,5-2

---

14-00000
10X-5287
11 Pubis Chief of information on Pueblo, anti-US and
66641
for
newana
H-5444 Subj is accused by Manuel CUE Pardinas, dir-gen of Politica, of being in the pay
3eb 61 of the "ex Cov and trying to delay the appearance of Politica, (LIENVOY B-2)
Com
HD 5458
15 Feb 61
CSLU
HM-5607
another accusation of trying to delay issuance of Politica by MARCUE who wants to
got rid of subj; Rosendo MOZZ Lorenzo cautioned that he has a public following &
bhould not be dismissed. (LIVOY B-2)
Subj was to attend interview of LOPEZ Mateos relative to case of Cuba on 20 Apr 61.
Interview was planned on 19 Apr by CEM & Max Organising Committee of LAPC.
(LIENVOY, B-2)
21 Apr 61
TDCS-3/472,253
HMMM-5791 Subj is a mbr of the Committee for Solidarity w/the Cuban Revolution. (LIFTER, B-2)
28 Jul 61
CS-3/482,611
17 by 61
33 61 staff of one
05-3/454,205 publish
Subje
WOZALEZ Pedro
Tonal (
nit, was working over-
foludes.
MS, protuba, C
Late
work off
31 Oct under Moonal

---

14-00000
RICO, Victor (Galan)
IIMMM-5678-
31 May
Card

---

14-00000
RICO, Victor (Galan)
M-6302
6 Apr 62
CS-3/508,
797
MXM-6486
19 June62
CS-3/515,
731
HDM-6770
5 Oct 62
CS-3/525,
08h
FBIS #227
21 Nov. 62
"
201-336474
Sub, Marxist journalist who heads Press and Propaganda Committee, among
Card 3
persons who attended round-table digestion held by MLN 2 Apr 62 on a biof
prison sentences imposed on David Alfaro Siqueiros, prominent Mex artist, and
Filomena Mata, his fellow-prisoner, on 10 March. Subs speakers.
(LIENVOY-2,
B-2, CONTROL).
11 June 62 Manuel MARCUS Pardinas, prominent Mex Marxist who is diregend of Politic
ex Marxist, anti-US, pro-Cuba, semi-monthly magazine, discussed w/Teresa S
Proenza, Calt Att of Cuban En in Nex, pricing 26 of July celebration in Falana.
MARCIS recommended discreet high-level persons be named to Nex delegation wid
recommended Subj., among other Marvel and Communist writers for Politica as well-
qualified, intelligent persons to end as delegates to Cubahs hoped
Sub! wld be invited to attend because he had never visited Cuba and was
very
anxious to go there. (LIENVOY, B-2) SECRET/NOPORN CORD CONTROL/
Subj., Max Marxist journalist and head of National Press and Propaganda
of 12, pro-Cuba, anti-13 Com front, piens to write political biography on Fidel
CASTRO Rus,Communist Prime Minister of Suba. Subj., who proposed idea to Cuban
Govt and was accepted, will spend 2 ms in Cuba working on project. (LICCOKY-1,
Committee
-2).
He carried Mex-pasaport
2 Oct Subj loft Mexico for liabana on Cubana Airlines.
No. 51115, w/Cuban courtesy visa.
(LIFIRE,B-2)
Subj has been in Cuba about six weeks.

---

14-00000
7003-3/538,445
25 Feb 63
PA 7050
XXI 3552
52435
763
Manuel MARCUE Pardinas, dir gen of Politica, ex Marxist semi-monthly
mag., has been suspended from membership on MIN, charged
with lack of discipline and having attacked committee of MIN, charged
MLN openly in Politica in
past several months. On 22 Feb Enrique GONZALEZ Pedrero, mbr of FILE
natl committee and member of staff of Politica, declared mura who
belong to staff of Politica must resign immgazino. Subj among those
who had doubts about resigning In mag. (LIZNICY,-2) NO FOREIGN DISSEM
✓ Victor Rice GALed Cuban view on separate piece of over on
24 g 634-
Man
Robound his ta.
-terview
troret for 27 3). hiso Nanso Sub.
721
Cuatro on to 50.
x-2
2527
han
..
Motorc
with othe
Prop
on Afo 1. terview w/Skatro, der ka
w/the ani),
La De Condo Cab.
Articles delih object or "estful whereal" d
و روانه بین سلام پیام دکمه

---

14-00000
ICC, ctor (nan)
#N761,
LIE 707, 3-2
A-198, 19 Aug 63
Amamb, Mox. C.
Filed: PRI
11121-7666
27 Aug 63
201-330474
intellectual.
Cuban
Victor RICO Galan, in the 21 August 63 issue of Siempre, answered the
charges of Romulo Sanchez Mireles, presiding officer of the Chamber of
Deputies, which is Mexico's House of Representatives. Sanchoz, before a
meeting of the PRI, had attacked those who undermine Mexico's institutions,
foreign born Mexicans are discriminated against.
customs, go and political leaders: Rico answered that he and
thousands of
Evening 21 Aug 63 15 Mex of known Marxist, Communist, or leftist ideology
CS-3/558382 red nt offices of Gustavo DIAZ Ordaz, in of Interior, including Subje
LITEMPO-
A-1291
AmEmb,MexC
2 Apr 63
prominent leftist journalists, the gre hadde he attempt make previous
appt it demanded audience with DIAZ.
visitors request for appt with him must be in writing and plain applicant'a
Lastar informed his sides to inform
business, and visitors were to 17 immediately. They left peaceably, saying
they wild send DIAC telegram daranding audience.
organisers and participants in rally in favor of political prisoners hold
Mox 18 Aug 63. Rally failed to be held as result of police intervention.
(PC: Subj ons of principai
Subd other leading participants wore arrested and released same day.
(HD-76 TDCS-3/557,04
20 Mar 1ss of loftist ly Siempre published art by Subj, regular contributor.
to mag., advocating creation of new pol party to reflect ideology of ferrer
Pros Lazaro CARDENAS.

---

14-00000
RICO, Victor (Galan)
HMM-8262
PEXI 7695
IN 9525
9 Jan 64
TDCS-3/
561,563
201-336474
Card
Subj.,Mex Marxist journalist, is making proparations to go to Dominican
Republic fn Mexico in very near future) ostensible p purpose to gather info
for preparations of some arts on DR. (LIENVOY, B-2, NO FOREIGN DISSEM)
(FC: Subj.,br of Propaganda Comittee of MLN, pro-Cuba, anti-US Max™
Communist front, and writer for Siempre, Max leftist mag.,visited Panama,
Quat., Nic, Costa Rica Venesuela, and brasil between mid-October and mid-
Dec.63, Aco several earlier rpts, Subj spent 8 days in Cuba during May and
June 63 interviewing Fidel Castro us, Prime Minister of Cuba, on latter's
stay in USSR. During this period Subj given assignment to visit countries
in South and Central America, where he was to persuade leftist parties to
begin immediate acts of sabotage and violence to take pressure off Venes.
He was also instructed to pursue competing, leftist factions
he visited to unify so their work would have greater impact. In various
countries he visited, Subj conferred with leading Communists and leftists.
in countries:
12 Jan
2005 3/59.940 Rico
9278
DIR 94930
Jan 64
16
Based on
SDOM-2619,
IN 99172,
15 Jan 64
Ref.is made to TDCA-3/569,940 distributed 14 Jan 6,Subj: Travel of Subj
DR.
Info has been read fm Dominican Security Service that Subj left Santo
for Miami, Fla., 15 Jan 64 on Pan American fit 432. Above to FEX & I&NS.

---

14-00000
Victor (Jalan)
3.3/570.335
Sta of fa
Ramon Lora Espinal,
photog
Jan 64
7. 0039
Tacs-3/570,025
10 Jan 64, 10247 608 Busty ringer of nucl, former
of (14th June 201 Grovfhotos of our brillan
Filled at la 21 63. at then. 1100 also
rea photon of infner of Ristin Diario, utrora refused
rolose them. (Sho report for details on pictures.)
21 Jon 64, Subsled Jubb, first it to ban told 24
Sibt wanted to 23 am,
fit of 27 Jan.
1-2 (70: dressed to confer w/Bistro son is ritun
Juan 64
108-2365
100
1.2.
tay at stel Rivie
LANTE,
Vinter
LIFE
35)
56341-courtos
14712334
(2
to
Van 54
iceb,
US 00111
(Son report for colonii trill)
64.
Jan 04,

---

14-00000
CS-31
8659
LIENVOY B-2
Par 64.
1100, Victor (Galan)
(Cover had fo:
Jurora)
201-336474
en 15 ch Fransa Intion office
Card 6
WACC and
Clo
head
ensa
100 on 19 : 64.
in Santigo, Chila,
outo from Santing
Cuba. (Arr Keri 17 Mar, loft for Cuba 20 lar.)
FRIS No. 85, 30 Apr 64
ANDASSADOR PREEMAN ATTACKED BY SIEMPRE
Hexico City Correspondent's Dispatch in Spanish to PRENSA LATINA Havana 1910 ONT
23 April 19 (FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY).
(Excorpt) Mexico City--In an article in the Mexico City Eagle SIEMPRE on
23 April. Vistor Rico Galan writes that U.S. Ambassador Fulton Freeman made a
statoment to the press about Cuta ad Brazil. "In
"In a violent style, that seems to
como rom the cavens o the John Birch Society, he (criticted) the
constitutional government o Joao Goulart ad the Cuban Revolution He talked'
Like a soapbox orator, as issuing a polla proclamation,orgetting that
Nex ou maintains rienil, relations with the Cuban Goverment au dld have very
close relatio sth the depored Brasilian President. Mr. Freema behaved like
a savago guest who spits on his host country.
"This is no great cause for surprise. U.S. ambassadors are constantly Intor-
fering in our 4 ostic aairs as it were the most natural thing.. They feel
as they were on conquered ground, and aot less like ambassadors than
proconsuls ho ere no consideration or oxplanation to anybody, as if this country
belonged to then and they enjoyed boundless privileges.

---

14-00000
"The surprising thing is that nobody has protestodi the insult to Mexico has
boo passed over in absolute silence. Morse things will oviously come. No
sooner does he arrive in Mexico than Mr. Freeman arrogates the right to shout::
anything ho
ho-plosses, because dashington has become impatientih Mexico's
Independent policy, a the Toxan style of the Johnson-Marin team (167) alion to the
relative tolerance o the Kennedy Intellectuals," Freema, coses to exert pressure
violently ad announces at the start that ho is reau, for anything. It is the
policy of International gangsterism that requires the conduct of a bully in those
who pursue it;"
Purther on, the
"Blither these saloon rufitans are stopped short or
hobody will be able to stand them. That is why it serious that nobody has raised
his voice to teach Freeran come manners, and that, on the contrary, Oneral Olachoa,
secretary of de once, should have paid him honors holl his general star without
daring to point out to his that this to an independent country that proco:isuls
endvicoroys are not allo-es here.
"Every U.S. ambassador who cares to Mexico makes his processzor look good by
comparison, but at least in the beginning all try to make themselves liked. But
Lot Fulton Frogman. Coswithcullon looks, raising his votes so nobody can
bo mistaken. His shows his hand right at the start and anodes that he la not
to try to convince anybody but will give orders. This incleatos quito.
Clearly that the State Department, thinks it has been the patient and feels.
orcunstances aro ripe for seting tough and violently."

---

14-00000
14100, Victor (Galan)
201-336474
Commie
Card 7:
NavAst, Mori
kpt 15864014065
18 Har 65
HMM-9727
4 June 65
LIFTER
CB-311/
07174-65
21 June 65
(Angel ThaALA Burgos, Ount, who exiled to Mezi Jan 65, after he was invo
ved in burning USA care in Gunt:)
The last mission of ICO Galan was the unification of the Guat
Guerrillas.
(Cy of report filed in Arms file)
Leaders of the MLN and the FEP met near the end of March or the beginning
of April 1965 to draw up a letter of convocation to the National Congres
for the Liberty of the Political Prisoners and the Repeal of the Law
Social Dissolution. Subj. and members of the group will send out the
notice of the Congress. Subj. is a member of the FEP and an enemy
the PPS.

---

14-00000
RICO, Victor (Galan)
HM01 8569
12 Mar 64
MEXI 9761
6 June 64
201 336474
LIENVOY: Raul Roa Kuri, Cuban Amb to Brazil said he was kept
informed on activities of Mexi pro Commie activities of ornando
Carmona de la Fona through subj...
TDCC 3/503,176: Rico Galan rerared for trip to Guat by dealing
directly with PT in order make direct contact with Yon Sosa.
owever, special Intero t. in the trin orinated with the
Chinese Comies who it score had ostablished secret info base
at, Subja atd Chinese Coles woro extro ol lonsod Yon
was of chinono do cent.
T
A-31
AmConsulato
Ferida
10 rebo
13-9550
CS-311/
03173-65
LICYIDE-1
Ces doc filed in State - Yucatan Subj Victor RICO Galan Again
Subj went to Korida during first few days of February o make a personal
Look place in rida 1 an
led by
of situation caused by docrease in price of henequen. A deron HATH
inginerenga in price of
re in 18s 10, cod's
mir

---

14-00000
RICO Galan, Victor
DPEB 6 FEB 1928, GFURRO)
Communist Newspaperman
336074
P-7354
Press and Propaganda-Committed
Went to Cuba on 25 May 63 roturned Yoxico 22 Juro 63.
Calle Crucina Larr
437
ail-Mexican
mil PP 52115.
Cebe -61
member of Comme
Relation
vimitter of
filidarity will
- Cuban Institute of Cutla
muffines in 66

---

14-00000
& Victor (GRIAN).
TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
SECRET
elled in
COUNTRY CUBA CO/005 RIKA)
SUNET TAND
ION CON
1. it
REPORT NOTDCS 3/563,671
DATE OF
PRECEDENCE
OF ALLEGED
DATE DISTR
31 OCTOBER 63
CUBAN AGENT IN CENTRAL AND SOUTH
AMERICA
PRIORITY
IN 50142
47784
To 20-22 OCT 63
PLACE
SATE ACO PANAMA, PANAMA CITY (24 OCT 63)
APPRAISAL
REFERENCES:
TUCS 3/563,137
TICS 3/502,999
FIELD REPORT NO.
49213
THIS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION: SOURCE CRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.
SOURCE PANAMANIAN. HEVOLI
CONTACTE
-ORIENTED LEFTIST
CINCLES OF PLAYA
(HEATAUA
GODI
THE HEAD OF THE POPAGANIA
AND
(MIN), A
ARVED IN
AND POLI
FOR THE NATIONAL LI
PUTYLTRATED MAXIMBERS OF THE MONTCAN
COMUNIST PARTY.
OCTOBER 1962 CO
EXOGIATHY OF FIDE CASTRO. XH
LAN TO CURTO FR FARE A POLITICAL
1993 HE AGATE WOT T
HE APPORTEDLY INTERVIEWED CLOTRO
OLSTRO'S ATTIEN FROM THE SOVIET
AND ALSO SPENT A FIVE-TAX
STA-GOUT VACATION WITH CASTRO, ON ION HE IS SAID TO A CLOUD PHD, RICO LAN
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET FOREIGN CEN
TELEGR
ون
-and
GOA
.00
INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM.

---

14-00000
CLASSIFICATION DOSEMINA
SECRET, NO FOREIGN DISSEM
TDC$3
CHIEF OF OOV HNMENT, AND WITH MARCO ANTONTO
SOSA;
LEADER.)
VICTOR RICO GAIAN, MEXICAN NEWSPAPERY
CUBA ON VACATION" WITH SIDEL CASTRO,
PERIOD TO VICIT COUNTRIES IN CENTRAL AID SOUTH
PERSUADE
LEFTIST PARTIES TO BEC)
TAKE THE PRESSURE OFF VENEZUELA
PERSUADE COMPETING
FACT
GREATER IMPACT. (HEAD ARTERS
SOURCE OF THE INFORMATION
THAT THE
IN JUNE 63.)
RICO GALAN DUT
WITH GOMEZ AYAY (PH), & QUER
AND VIOLENT ACTION. THE ALSO MADE
LEAGER.
VALICS TO QUA
VISITED NICARAGUA OR THE THIS FELL ON IT
RICA HE TALKED WITH A PRO
HORA IS PRESENTLY TO ROC Gronix,yan
THE USSR, VIA MEXICO, wybor
PARTY
HIGH ALAN ARI
ANGELIA LATA (HEADQUARTER
14. 20
PENT

---

14-00000
TDES:
TO THE ENEZUELAN CONGRESS AND SIFD OF RAFAEL E
MARTINES, LEADER
ME
FORCES OF NATIONAL LISATION (FAN-VERNELAN TERRORIST ORGANIZATION.)
IN PANAMA BETWEEN 20-22 OCTOBER RIC DALAN CONTACTEURUGO VICTOR, PRESI
OF THE PARTIDO DEL PUEBLO (PDP PEOPLE'S PARTY - COMMUNIST) AND DAVID TURNER,
A LEADER OF THE VANGUARD OF NATIONAL ACTION (VAN PRO-CUBAN, RADICAL REVOLUTIONARY
ORGANIZATION). ON 24 OCTOBER A MEETING WAS HELD A DISCUSS UNITY OF THE LEFT,
COMMENCEMENT
AGGRESSIVE ACTION, AND
ELECTIONS AS A BLOC COULD EFFORTS TO PR
LATIST UNITS:
THE
ELECTIONS FALLY TRI MERTING
WAS ATTENDED BY VI
RENATO PEREIRA
INDEPENDENT USUA
CARLOS DEL
NO UNIDENTIFIED STUDE
(HEADIUARTERS
COBAN
SAN COMMUNIST PARTI.
THE VISITOR M
WAS A MI
HE DID NOT ADMITIFY
38
THE TOP AND THE VAN
AND
VIOLENTLY REJECTED BY THE POSI
SOVIET EMBASSY IN MEXICO CITY.).
PROTEST THE PROPAL
FIELD DISSEN: STATE, ARAY,
ABG, CINCO, CINCLİNE.
EID OF MESSAGE
DRCKET/NO
:)

---

14-00000
DOMICILIO OFA TÖÐULAR EN EL EXTRANJERO
EN CASO DE
O ACCIDENTE NOTIGUESE
DOMICI
PASAPORTE
EXPEDIDO A FAVOR DE
VICTOR RICO GALAN
A QUIEN ACOMPAÑA ESPORE
BE REPRENDRES CADA DOS
es on SABE
26 FSR 1964
Cua on Cuba
REMENDATURA UTR
68 PA³«FFURY BẠT HUL SILY & DES RATTAGA
CUFARCTION ov a
THIS PASSPORT (BOT VALIDITISED.
ANDDED UP
Ex
ESTADOS UNILOS
NIEPOS MEXICANOS
FRA FRANCIA, ITALIA
VICTOR RICO GALAN
A
ORTUGAL EST
7)
A NACIONALIDAD MEXICANA.
asbeno sandales is
Nude-former- donds transen).
"Dongan obudio y le si presten ayuda.
4 profiction into
Dodo en la clubid de
MEXICO .F.
das dalies de
SEPTICK
TATA SUECIA DIAPIOCA ALEUNHÀ,
SUIZA AUSTRIA COLTA-
NECA DE NACIONES,
LA VALIDEZ DE ESTE PASAPORTE EXPRA EL
8 SEPTIEVADE 1965.
a menca de que sea rationist one by Secridens de
Rebxiones Paterforessor alguna chum diges
milano anais. el estranger
OBSERVACIONES
de and had
SESENTA
Y TRES
TOTA
ourgade of 127 2969
1*T
E

---

14-00000
TILIACIONED
TIMAAR
2.78 MTS1
ALANC
.
CATES
QJOS
noi.
ENTRECANO
STAS PARTICULARES.
KINGUNA
LUGAR DE NÁCIOPIEN
(L. FERROL, GÓPA
ECHA DE NACIMIENTO..
6 FERRENO 1923
OCUPACIONER 10.31-STA..
ESTADO CISTE 10
'MUJOS MENORES
CONSULADO GENERAL DE NAMI
45
NUMERO 12
DERECHOS CORRADOS
ISTO en este Consuledo, General, pars dirigite
voldo por un
Mtaco. D.
Gues500
se 90 Jers
Suite

---

14-00000
VIBAR
CURSILADO GAIAAL SALVADOR
EN MEXICO, D. F.
1188'
AMCBR DE del se
D UP
Tipo Tures.
prema conta osiped gatoris autork
19 SEL 1963
COMIN
CONLUL GENERAL
@
1.S.A.
2:
15
AGENTE
BLEUT
ENTRADA
11 OCT 1963
Ven
Vern
13 OCT 1963
Eft
An 196
VISAR

---

14-00000
429632
AS PUBLICA C
17.13
فارغة
20. 1969:
MEXICO, D.
CUBA

---

14-00000

"A sus Ordenes, Jefazo-Pages"
Por LEON GUZMAN
Nuevo Sirviente Oficial:
Rico, Galán y con Librea
El sefior Victor Rico Galán,
escritor de "Siempre", trata de
comprar su libertad haciendo de
sirviente cinico al gobierno y a
su revista "mater et magister
del confusionismo". Bueno que
este "martir" trate de salir y
que atiborre a quien lo lea de
la bazofia trotskista; bueno que
utilice la comprobada via de es-
critor de "Siempre" para labrar-
se su salida; bueno que acuse a
los remotos Imperialismos y
grupos innominados de todas las
culpas, escondiendo así la muy
presente culpa del gobierno y de
la clase dominante mexicana.
Bueno para sus muy mezquinos
y pequeñitos "objetivos", pues
sus desahogos palabreros nada
tienen qué ver con la lucha re-
Siempre!
stros
Virtor Rieu Galán, corns orca
express politivos do ou calaña
drommascard
ea traidor.
abtestamente
volucionaria de los trabajadores
mexicanos.
Desde la crulla "N", Rico Ga-
lán habla-mantenido un silencio
meticuloso, hasta que llegó el
momento de "hacer cualquier
servicio al enemigo" con tal de
salir; hasta que llegó el momen-
to de encontrar el camino de
volver a escribir en "Siempre"
para labrarse su excarcelación,
como ya lo hicieron otros antes
de él; hasta que llegó el momento de olvidarse de ins pille-
Has del diretor de "Siempre"
quien, cuando al gobierno con-
vino, le ho un mania en salını
Desde la revista "Siempre", vo-
cero del gobierno, Rico Galán
sirve ahora a su "Jefazo pagle" y
al gobierno.
sea la parte, y ahora que al go-
blerno conviene, le abre las
puertas de su revisita guberna-
mental, bien cebada por la cla-
se dominante para pregonar la
confusión de una supuesta "Iz-
quierda" y defender con toda el
alma al gobierno, al presidente
en turno ý a la clase dominan-
te.
Rasta leer "Siempre" para
197
38/12/7/

---

14-00000
encontrar, desde siempre un
solo derrotero: el más destaca-
do servilismo a todos los go-
blernos, sumado a poses izquier-
dizantes atribuibles a algunos
de sus escritores, Caro han ven-
dido los dueños de la revista
"Siempre" este sistema de con-
fusión y apoyo activo a los due-
ños del poder: mucho papel, mu-
chisimas dádivas, una enorme
fortuna para el vanidoso "je-
fazo" Pagés.
Toda la propaganda oficial y
sus publicitarias "reformas"
tienden a lo mismo: desacredi-
tar a los que están luchando co-
mo pueden y aprenden a ha-
cerlo en la vida diaria. Llamar
"impotentes, idiotas, desespera-
dos y provocadores" a los gue-
rrilleros y de cualquier allá. Tiene que
lanzar a la grandilocuencia ri-
dícula, a hablar de los futuros
amaneceres revolucionados
de la sangre" y la "vida" de
los revolucionarios, atribuyén-
dose fal calidad el pobre escri-
tor. Tiene que ganarse su paga
Tiene que presentarse como la
evolución verdadera, para que
nadie crea en los que están com-
batiendo a la dictadura de aque-
lla pequeña élite de engañado-
res oficiales y sueldos, sueldi-
tos sueldotes a sus edecanes
escritores
maestro
hasta el din
claco de la
que han ido
Lombardo
plente, Fran-
ejero de
La Presidencia de la República.
milleros, como lo hace en su
último articulo" el discipulo de
Pagés, Rico Galán ("Siempre"
Nº 965; páginas 24 y 25), es ha-
cer exactamente lo que ordena
la clase dominante a sus pajes
(¿o pagės?);
"Siempre dio lugar a la no-com-
vela rosa de la apertura" Des-
de sus columnas hablan los aper-
turistas oficiales: a voz en cuello.
Junto a los artículos de Regla
Debray, se mezclan homenajes
a todos los virreyes
mentales, y al
rey-pr
"Jefe
más que a ninguno. Se pelean
tre si las comadres del "Jefe
Pages" para dar idea de libor-
tad de opinión"; pleititos intras-
cendentes que ocupan páginas y
páginas Inacabables; al fin que
el papel no se paga.
"Siempre" buscó el modo de
Justificar la matanza del 2 de
Octubre y la del 10 de Junio.
Hablando vagamente en contra
de la solidaridad revolucionaria,
y no de la limosna Infamante,
otorgada por malas conciencias
que buscan una precaria tran-
quilidad. Independientemente de
que siga usted encontrando ele-
mentales razones humanas o se
le hayan agotado las que exhi-
bo
esta carta tlene Importan-
cia para mi dignidad personal y
por ello esperaré a que la pu-
blique hasta el jueves, pero re-
servándome copla y el derecho
de hacerla pública por otrus mo-
dlos en caso necesario. - Aten-
tamente Victor Rico Galán".
Eso fue ayer, pero hoy, ya to-
do cambió: la mala conclencla
del jefe Pages se volvió bue-
na: el héroe que rechazaba la
"limosna" pagesina se vuelve
snero; quien se negó a es-
cribir en Siempre" por elemen-
tales razones de dignidad, se ha
vuelto Indigno. Ese es el camino
que enseña el cclabomdor de
Siempre".
Insulta a Genaro Vázquez des-
de "Siempre vaya dignidad!
alcoholo impotente.
Rodriguez, desterrado por el go-
blerno en La Habana, Cuba
Pero podemos los que dia a
dla luchamos por sacar esta re-
vista, exigir a este pobre Galán,
y a sus amos de Slempre ya
los amos de ambos, a los gober-
dominante que los sostleno,
nantes de México y a la clase
minante:
zarles una exigencia clara y tera.
amo que puede afirmar
esponsable del asesinato de Pa-
blo Alvarado B., no es "
general Arcaute sino que hay
más por all que difaman las
culpas. El señor Galán personal-
el Presidente de la República es-
mente afirmable consta que
taba informado Solo él que
