104-10165-10004
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

REPORT

On Friday, 19 June, departed Miami for Kingston, Jamaica via Pan American, leaving Miami at 0800 and arriving Kingston via Montego Bay at 10:15 AM. This flight continues on to San Juan, Puerto Rico, and Latin passengers are commonplace. In passing through immigration and customs, it is necessary to give the immigration inspector the name of a specific hotel or address at which you can be reached in Jamaica.

Obtained rental car from Hertz Car Rental and departed Kingston Airport at 10:45 AM via Highway A-1 for Fort Antonio of the north coast. Highway A-1 follows the coast around the eastern tip of the island. There is another route to Fort Antonio, over the mountains, but it is not recommended. As shown on the standard highway map of the island, there is a small cove about seven miles east of Port Antonio designated as "Blue Hole". The cove is roughly 200 feet wide by 500 feet long, and completely protected from the open sea and weather. The cove is extremely deep, and is reported to have a minimum depth of six feet at the entrance. Tidal range appears to be very small, perhaps one to two feet.

When I arrived at Blue Hole, which is about 2-1/2 hours by road from Kingston, Robin Moore was not available; I went into Port Antonio and secured a room at the Bonnie Vue Hotel. I returned to Blue Hole about five o'clock and there met Robin Moore. Mr. Moore owns most of the land surrounding Blue Hole, with the Jamaican government owning the balance. On the beach facing the sea, Moore has built and operates a bar-restaurant which he calls the Teahouse of the Blue Lagoon. This accounts for the confusion between Blue Hole and Blue Lagoon. On the side of the mountain descending to the water, Moore has built and lives in a small studio apartment. He also owns another small house overlooking Blue Hole. This house was occupied temporarily by a girl who was introduced to me as his fiancee, Margot Palmer, and her mother, Rita Palmer. They are supposed to return to their home in Vancouver, B.C., about the end of June.

About five o'clock I introduced myself to Moore as a friend of Antonio de la Carrera, and gave him the code with the recognition symbol. We talked from five o'clock until about 7:30 at which time we had dinner and parted until the next morning at 11:50.

I spent the night at the Bonnie Vue Hotel and noted in passing that a U. S. destroyer escort based at Guantanamo Bay was anchored in the harbor for the weekend, with the sailors being given liberty in Port Antonio. This seems to be a common occurrence, and could perhaps be a source of information about Cuban patrol practices along the south coast.

Saturday morning, 20 June, met Moore again, and continued our discussion of the previous day. During our conversation, he introduced me to Fred Barrett, a native Jamaican (colored), who is in charge of the operation of the bar-restaurant. I left Mr. Moore and Blue Hole about 2:00 o'clock and drove to Kingston, catching the 6:30 Pan American flight back to Miami, via Montego Bay.

Following my two serious conversations with Moore, plus my observations of the man himself, plus my reconnaissance of the site itself, I submit the following items of information as being of significance:

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

1. Robin Moore

a. Moore has just returned from Viet Nam where he participated in the combat operations of the American Special Forces in Viet Nam, after he had gone through about eight months of training at the Special Forces School at Fort Campbell, Kentucky. Some understanding of Moore's personality may be obtained from reading an interview between him and the magazine U. S. News and World Report, which was published recently, and copy of which was left with Maria. Further understandings and impressions of Moore may be obtained from reading his previously published book about Jack Youngblood, an American who participated in the events leading to Castro's overthrow of Battista.

b. In my opinion, Moore has a burning desire to be known as a tough, two-fisted, rip roaring soldier of fortune. He has participated in real war in Viet Nam, and has received what is probably the best training in the world for guerilla fighters, namely, the U. S. Special Forces. This includes training as a parachutist. He is inclined to brag and is probably inclined to interperate use of alcohol and women, and his judgement of important matters is probably immature. However, he definitely understands and is experienced in guerilla fighting, is experienced in military operations, and must surely understand military security.

c. He is definitely willing to help, but cannot contribute cash directly; is willing to furnish the use of the guest house on his property for limited periods of time. Is willing to participate and aid in an operation to land people on the south coast of Cuba, but is not willing to commit the use of his property and facilities as a staging area for resupply in the future.

d. Is willing to come to Miami, for conferences if his expenses are paid.

2. Site Evaluation

a. Blue Hole is an excellent harbor; protected against all weather, and with six feet of water at the bar. Is surrounded by very steep slopes, heavily wooded. Dock facilities are presently very meager, but could be quickly and easily improved. No fuel for a boat is available at Blue Hole, and at Fort Antonio (the closest source), the fuel available is diesel fuel or automotive gasoline; no marine white gasoline is available anywhere in the area. This is a most significant factor in selecting a suitable boat.

b. The nearest source of food and other supplies is Port Antonio; Fred Barrett, manager of the Blue Lagoon Club, orders and hauls supplies from Port Antonio constantly, and could deliver whatever supplies were desired. Firearms and explosives are not obtainable on the island. They would have to be smuggled in illegally.

c. A small station wagon is available for transportation, provided expenses are paid by users.

3. Miscellaneous Information

a. A local man, George Munroe, is reported to be a very experienced small boat captain and one who has brought boats down from Miami

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

on five different occasions. He is reported to be available to serve as captain on a fishing boat, and to train a crew.

b. The S.S. Frangeline sails every two weeks from Miami direct to Port Antonio, and could be employed for the delivery of supplies and even a boat to Robin Moore.

c. Fred Barrett, manager of the bar-restaurant, seems to be a very capable man, and for an additional $10 per week added to his regular pay, would be quite willing to assist any operation.

d. A Mr. Anthony Gason, a retired British army colonel, is the Jamaica representative for TROJAN boats, at a place called Turtle Cove, between Port Antonio and Blue Hole.

e. The immigration chief for Jamaica is a man by the name of George Eubanks, who is the former chief of police at Port Antonio: Moore claims that they are very close personal friends.

d. Moore is acquainted with a man by the name of Mike Hedges, who is a nephew of Burke Hedges, the American who became Cuba's ambassador to Chile some years ago. Mike lives in Kingston, and, if he is not a Battista sympathizer, might prove to be a very valuable connection. The family is reported to be quite wealthy, and would establish an excellent cover.

4. Operational Considerations

a. In order to avoid the use of significant names, I instructed Moore to refer to Manolo as George King, and the operation of landing him in Cuba would be referred to as Operation King. The most likely scheme seems to be to establish a suitable boat at Blue Hole, with the cover story to be that it belongs to American friends of Robin Moore. Housing is available locally for a limited number of Cubans, with Moore being able to accommodate up to six on his own property. The local boat captain, George Munroe, could be employed as captain initially, to train the Cuban crew in the local marine conditions, as well as serving as an effective cover. In my opinion, it will not be too difficult for persons to enter Jamaica without difficulty, provided they know a certain minimum amount of English.

I think a suitable location could be found for radio transmission and reception facilities on the hills surrounding Blue Hole, but this would have to be examined by someone skilled in radio techniques. Mateo would be excellent.

In summary, I would say that Robin Moore and his property and buildings at Blue Hole would serve as an excellent base of operations, but that the boat necessary for the operation would have to be acquired and equipped in the states and shipped down there, except for the remote possibility that a suitable boat could be found in Kingston. I think a headquarters could be established at small cost through Moore's good offices, and I think that Rudy would be a good choice to coordinate the initial operations there.
