14-00000

104-10213-10314 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

2 August 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR : General Counsel
Director of Security

FROM : S.D. Breckinridge
SUBJECT : HSCA Request of 26 July 1978 -
OLC-78-2728

1. Attached is correspondence from the DDO focal
point on the HSCA investigation, responding to Question
2 of reference. It states that there are and have been
no agreements (at least not as described in the HSCA
request) between CIA and the FBI, or other government
agencies, that pertain to the Agency's responsibilities
to report on U.S. citizens abroad who contact Communist
embassies or officials. It also states that current
legislation forbids such reporting.

2. Attached are copies of papers collected by
O/IG during the Rockefeller Commission's inquiry; I
recall that there was a 1966 agreement, which is not in
these papers. In any event they do not seem to contain
a specific provision such as is envisioned in the report.

It is possible that interpretations of NSCID and DCID
provisions resulted in routine reporting of such con-
tacts, although there were no agreements, per se, for
such action. Since the promulgation of Executive
Orders 11905 and 12036 there have been limitations on
reporting on U.S. persons, which may affect past practice.

However, this office is not in a position to provide an
Agency position on this issue.

3. It is requested that you coordinate with the
DDO in preparing an answer to an Agency response to
the HSCA question.

Distribution:
S.D. Breckinridge
1 - General Counsel
1 - D/Security
1 - OLC/Subj.
1 - OLC/Chron
1 - Mr. Gregg
1 - Mr. Shepanek

This document may be
downgraded to AUG
when detached from
attachment

---

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED | CONFIDENTIAL | SECRET

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

TO: NAME AND ADDRESS: DATE INITIALS

Mr. Breckinridge

ACTION
APPROVAL
COMMENT
DIRECT REPLY
DISPATCH
FILE
PREPARE REPLY
RECOMMENDATION
RETURN
CONCURRENCE
INFORMATION
SIGNATURE

Remarks:

Expansion of DCD-FBI Relationship
Book Dispatch 9335 of 18 Feb 1974
Two sanitized copies ready for Mr. Knoche.

FROM: NAME ADDRESS AND PHONE NO. DATE

Walter F. Little 3/18/75

UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

FORM PL 937 Use previous editions

---

14-00000

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOP AND BOTTOM
UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

TO NAME AND ADDRESS DATE INITIALS

Remarks:
Attached 2 copies sent to Mr. Knoche via IG 3/18/75

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER
FROM: NAME ADDRESS AND PHONE NO. DATE

UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

FORM 237
Use previous editions

---

14-00000

OUTGOING TELEPOUCH

SIGNAL CENTER USE

TELEPOUCH BOOK DISPATCH 9335

DATE - TIME GROUP
18 FEBRUARY 1974

E2 IMPDET
CL BY: G2351870

TO: FR/ATLANTA, FR/CHICAGO, FR/CLEVELAND, FR/BOSTON, FR/SAN FRANCISCO,
FR/LOS ANGELES, FR/NEW YORK, FR/WASHINGTON.

SECRET TELEPOUCH

DISP NO: BD 9335
22 12 52Z FEB74

ISOLOG

TO: CHIEF OF BASE, ATLANTA; CHIEF OF BASE, BOSTON; CHIEF OF BASE, LOS
ANGELES; CHIEF OF BASE, CHICAGO; CHIEF OF BASE, CLEVELAND; CHIEF OF
BASE, SAN FRANCISCO; CHIEF OF BASE, NEW YORK; CHIEF OF BASE, WASHINGTON

FROM: CHIEF, FOREIGN RESOURCES DIVISION
SUBJECT: RELATIONS WITH THE FBI

1. ATTACHED HEREWITH IS THE SUBSTANCE OF A LETTER FROM FBI HQS
TO ITS EIGHT FIELD OFFICES IN CITIES WHERE FR BASES ARE LOCATED.
THIS LETTER IS AIMED AT CLARIFYING A NUMBER OF BASIC FACTS REGARDING
THE MISSION OF DDO IN GENERAL AND FR DIVISION ACTIVITIES IN THE USA
IN PARTICULAR, AND IT SPELLS OUT IN SOME DETAIL OUR AGREED INTERPRE-
TATION OF SOME OF THE HISTORICALLY MORE TROUBLESOME ASPECTS OF THE
1966 AGREEMENT.

DATE: 15 FEB 74
ORIG:
UNIT: FR/COPS
EXT: 5885

IP USE ONLY

---

14-00000

TELEPOUCH BD 9335

E2 IMPDET
CL BY:

2. WE WERE ESPECIALLY GRATIFIED WITH THE OPENING PARAGRAPHS OF
THE LETTER WHICH EMPHASIZE THE FACT THAT FR IS CARRYING OUT A U.S.
GOVERNMENT REQUIREMENT IN ITS RECRUITMENT OF FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE
SOURCES, AND THAT THIS ACTIVITY IS BEING CONDUCTED IN THE USA WITH
FULL BUREAU CONCURRENCE. ANOTHER BASIC POINT WHICH THE LETTER MAKES
IS THAT THE PURPOSE OF THE GUIDELINES (1966 AGREEMENT) IS TO PROTECT
THE BEST INTERESTS OF THE U.S. GOVERNMENT, NOT ENABLE THE BUREAU TO
MONITOR OUR OPERATIONS.

3. THERE WAS CONSIDERABLE DISCUSSION INVOLVED IN DRAFTING THIS
LETTER, BUT NO REAL STICKY DIFFERENCES AROSE. WE BELIEVE IT MIGHT BE
USEFUL TO GIVE ADDRESSEES SOME OF THE HIGHLIGHTS OF THESE DISCUSSIONS
AS BACKGROUND FOR ANY TALKS YOU MAY HAVE ON THESE SUBJECTS WITH YOUR
FIELD OFFICE CONTACTS. THESE ARE SET OUT BELOW:

A. PAGE 2, LAST PARAGRAPH: ON THE QUESTION OF WHAT FOREIGN
OFFICIALS ARE OF "PRESUMED INTEREST" TO THE BUREAU; WE AGREED THAT
THIS CATEGORY CHANGED WITH WORLD DEVELOPMENTS AND THAT FR WOULD
SIMPLY USE A COMMON SENSE JUDGMENT TO MAKE ITS CASE BY CASE DETER-
MINATION. WE AGREED THAT TRYING TO BROADEN OR LIMIT THE CATEGORY BY

IP USE ONLY

---

14-00000

TELEPOUCH BD-9335

E2 IMPDET
CL BY:

FURTHER DEFINITION WAS NOT PRACTICAL.

B. PAGE 3, TOP PARAGRAPH: PLEASE NOTE THAT THE CRITERION
OF OVERLAP AND/OR CONFLICT IS USED THERE THE SAME AS IN THE '66 AGR-
EMENT PARAGRAPH TWO CONCERNING BUREAU CONCURRENCE FOR RECRUITMENT
APPROACHES.

C. PAGE 3, BOTTOM PARAGRAPH: ALTHOUGH WE ARE REQUIRED ON
TO KEEP FBI APPRISED OF INFORMATION RELATING TO ITS COUNTERINTELLIG-
ENCE AND INTERNAL SECURITY RESPONSIBILITIES, WE CONCURRED IN THIS REQUES
FOR MORE DETAILED AND TIMELY REPORTING ON CERTAIN CASES SINCE WE
CONSIDERED THE DETAIL ASKED FOR TO BE OF DEMONSTRABLE CI VALUE AND
TIME LIMITS TO BE REASONABLE. THE BUREAU WAS COMPLETELY AMENABLE TO
LIMITING SUCH REQUIREMENTS TO CASES WHEREIN THEIR STATUTORY RESPO-
SIBILITIES WERE CLEARLY INVOLVED, AND WE WERE PARTICULARLY PLEASED
THE ADDITIONAL AGREEMENT ALLOWING THE FIELD OFFICES AND THE FR BASES
TO WORK OUT THE LOCAL HANDLING OF ALL OTHER CASES, INCLUDING 8385;
SPECIFICALLY THE "PRIOR NOTICE" REQUIREMENT OF PARAGRAPH THREE OF
THE '66 AGREEMENT. NOTE THAT THIS ENTIRE PORTION OF THE LETTER INVOLVES
TARGETS WHICH ARE HISTORICALLY AS WELL AS PRACTICALLY, IN THE BUREAU

IP USE ONLY

---

14-00000

TELEPOUCH BD-9335

E 2 IMPDET
CL BY:

"COUNTERINTELLIGENCE TERRITORY". IT SHOULD ALSO BE NOTED THAT THE
BUREAU HAS ALREADY AGREED TO PROVIDE US WITH CERTAIN TYPES OF OPERA-
TIONAL INFORMATION IN EXCESS OF ANY EXISTING AGREEMENT, AND WE HAVE
RECEIVED INITIALLY FAVORABLE REACTION TO PROPOSALS FOR ADDITIONAL
ITEMS IN THE FUTURE. WE DO NOT BELIEVE THIS REPORTING AGREEMENT WILL
CAUSE YOU ANY SERIOUS PROBLEMS, BUT IF IT SHOULD BE BROADENED OR
INTERPRETED IN A WAY THAT YOU CONSIDER UNREASONABLE OR BURDENSOME,
PLEASE ADVISE AND WE WILL TRY TO HAVE THE CRITERIA DEFINED MORE CLEARLY.

D. PAGE 4, BOTTOM PARAGRAPH: WE HAD CONSIDERABLE DISCUSSION
ON THIS SUBJECT. THE BUREAU FELT THAT IN SOME INSTANCES WE WERE
"STRETCHING" THE ASSESSMENT PROCESS INTO THE FIRST STAGES OF RECRUIT-
MENT, AND IN SOME OTHERS WE WERE MOVING INTO RECRUITMENT WITHOUT
FORMALLY SEEKING BUREAU CONCURRENCE AND COORDINATION. GOOD FAITH
BEING PRESUMED, IT BECAME APPARENT THAT OUR PROBLEM WAS BOTH SEMANTIC
AND ONE OF DEFINITION. THE BUREAU INSISTS, AND WE RECOGNIZE, THAT
CONCURRENCE IN OUR PROCEEDING WITH ASSESSMENT CANNOT BE INTERPRETED
AS CONCURRENCE TO MOVE BEYOND ASSESSMENT. THEY EXPLAIN THAT THEY

IP USE ONLY

---

14-00000

TELEPOUCH BD-9335

E 2 IMPDET
CL BY:

OFTEN CONCUR IN OUR ASSESSMENT OF TARGETS IN WHOM THEY HAVE A VERY
ACTIVE "RECRUITMENT INTEREST" WITH BUREAU SOURCES IN TOUCH, ETC.
HENCE, BEFORE THE AGENCY MOVES INTO THE ACTUAL RECRUITMENT OPERA-
TION, THE BUREAU NEEDS SPECIFIC NOTICE IN ORDER TO ASSESS ITS OWN COUNTER-
INTELLIGENCE OR INTERNAL SECURITY EQUITIES AND MAKE A DECISION.

THE DEFINITIONS OF "ASSESSMENT" AND "RECRUITMENT" IN THE LETTER
SHOULD BE CONSIDERED TOGETHER: THE ONLY POSSIBLE AREA OF CONFUSION
WOULD SEEM TO BE IN THE "PROCESS" OF RECRUITMENT. A SIMPLIFIED
COMMON SENSE BREAKDOWN WOULD BE THAT ASSESSMENT IS THE OBTAINING
AND ANALYZING OF INFORMATION CONCERNING A TARGET INDIVIDUAL TO ENABLE
US TO DETERMINE WHETHER OR NOT IT IS DESIRABLE AND/OR FEASIBLE TO
MOUNT A RECRUITMENT APPROACH: IF OUR ASSESSMENT IS AFFIRMATIVE,
THEN MOVE INTO THE RECRUITMENT PHASE PRIOR TO WHICH MOVE WE MUST
SEEK BUREAU CONCURRENCE AND COORDINATION.

WE INTERPRET MANIPULATION OF A TARGET VIA SOCIAL CONTACTS,
IN MANY CASES BY OVERT, LEGAL, NONCOMPROMISING BUSINESS ARRANGEMENTS
TO BE PART OF THE ASSESSMENT PROCESS; THAT IS, AN ATTEMPT TO OBTAIN
INFORMATION REGARDING HIS VULNERABILITY, STRENGTH, IDEOLOGY,

IP USE ONLY

---

14-00000

TELEPOUCH BD-9335

E 2 IMPDET
CL BY:

ASPIRATIONS, ETC. ALL OF WHICH ARE PERTINENT TO OUR DECISION TO
OR NOT GO FOR A RECRUITMENT APPROACH. ON THE OTHER HAND, WE INTER-
PRET A COMMERCIAL ARRANGEMENT WHICH IS IN ANY WAY COVERT OR QUASI-
LEGAL OR IS A PLANNED STEPPING STONE TO THE PLANNED INTRODUCTION OF
U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST, TO BE PART OF THE RECRUITMENT PROCESS AND
TO REQUIRE PRIOR BUREAU CONCURRENCE.

E. PAGE 4, BOTTOM PARAGRAPH: BASES WILL NOTE THAT WE
AGREED TO CONSIDER AGENTS RECRUITED IN THE U.S. WHO REMAIN HERE,
SAME AS AGENTS RECRUITED ABROAD WHO COME HERE FOR TOURS OR VISITS
ALTHOUGH ONLY THE LATTER ARE SPECIFIED IN THE AGREEMENT, WE FELT
IMPLICITLY IT INCLUDED THE FORMER. WE FEEL THAT OUR EQUITIES ARE
ADEQUATELY PROTECTED BY THE VERY SPECIFIC TERMINOLOGY OF PARAGRAPHS
FIVE AND SIX OF THE '66 AGREEMENT. NOTE ALSO THAT ALTHOUGH THE
PROVISIONS OF PARAGRAPHS FOUR, FIVE AND SIX OF THE '66 AGREEMENT
ARE ALL-ENCOMPASSING, WE ARE IN PRACTICE CONCERNED ONLY WITH THOSE
AGENTS, OPERATIONS AND SOURCES WHO HAVE REAL OR POTENTIAL CONTACT
OR CAPABILITY IN THE FIELDS OF COUNTERINTELLIGENCE AND/OR INTERNAL
SECURITY; THAT IS, WHO ARE OF KNOWN OR PRESUMED INTEREST TO THE

IP USE ONLY

---

14-00000

TELEPOUCH BD-9335

E 2 IMPDET
CL BY:

BUREAU. IT IS INCUMBENT UPON US, HOWEVER, TO BE METICULOUS IN THE
DETERMINATION OF "PRESUMED" INTEREST AND TO LEAN TOWARDS THAT PRE-
SUMPTION WHEREVER THERE IS ANY DOUBT.

4. FILE: 100-002-090.

ATTACHMENT - FBI LETTER, AS STATED ABOVE - H/U

E2 IMPDET-d

DIST:
1 - FR/REG, W/ATT
1 - FR/COPS W/ATT
2 - 100-002-090

IP USE ONLY
