14-00000
104-10185-10128 [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title
18, U.S.C., Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY: Cuba REPORT NO. CS CI 316/00643-64

SUBJECT: Guillermo ARASTAGUIA DATE DISTR. 11 August 1964

NO. PAGES 2
REFERENCES: CSCI-3/779,803
CS-311/00115-64
DATE OF INFO. 1964
PLACE & DATE ACQ. Washington, D.C. August 1964
FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this Agency.

1. Guillermo ARASTAGUIA, pseudonym "Rene," is the chief of the
Department of Technical Operational Support (MI) in the
Direccion General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of
Intelligence - DGI). He was formerly the secretary of
Ramiro VALDES in the Departamento de Seguridad del Estado
(Department of State Security - DSE), but ARASTAGUIA was a
follower of Anibal ESCALANTE and because of a problem
concerning ESCALANTE and because ARASTAGUIA was believed to
be a homosexual, VALDES transferred him to the DGI. ARASTAGUIA
went to the Youth Festival in Helsinki as a representative
of the DGI and has traveled to Moscow three times.

2. ARASTAGUIA was born in 1934, is about five feet seven inches
in height, has blond hair and green eyes. He is fat, has a
chin that juts out, lips that are somewhat sunken, and has a
rather high pitched voice and seems effeminate.

Headquarters Comments

A report dated 6 October 1960, from an [Official Ecuadorean]
source, provided a list of Cuban Communists. One Guillermo
ARRASTIA, aka "Rene," possibly identical with Guillermo
ARASTAGUIA, was included and described as a first lieutenant,

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CINCSO = I&NS
WE 1 (2), CIA,

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

2. ARRASTIA was reported to have the confidence
of Raul CASTRO and Ramiro VALDES; and he was VALDES' righthand
man in G-2.

3. An official roster listing the military staff personnel comprising
the Intelligence Department, G-2, of the Cuban Ministry of the
Armed Forces (MINFAR) was received by a representative of this
Agency from an untested source in a report dated 1 March 1961.
Included on this list was one First Lieutenant Guillermo
ARRASTIA Fundora, possibly identical with Guillermo ARRASTAGUIA.

4. In a report dated 28 October 1962, a list of identified and
suspected Cuban intelligence officers was included, the list was
received from an official liaison service. One First
Lieutenant Guillermo ARRATIA (or ARRASTIA) Fundora was included
on the list and described as an identified intelligence officer
on the G-2 Headquarters staff.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
