4104-10183-10261 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Re-

SECRET 362217Z
SIR CITE SALV 5312
DYVOUR PERUMEN AYMUG
FED MESSAGE
SECRET
REFS
SALV 53-3 (IN 83009)
33 SEPSIS 4511
02
HERITED
DIR 53323
.02
LANGOSCH AND ANNUC 1, ONCE EACH ALONE AND ONCE TOGETHER SAN JUNAVE
MORNING, 10 SEPTEMBER. JUNAVE 1 TOOK SAME POSITION AS PARA 2
DENIED KNOWING ANUG DESPITE CASE OFFICER RELATIONSHIP, REFUSED D.
ANYTHING ABOUT CUBAN INTEL; AND SECCED FOR RELEASE AND EXILE TO START
LIFE ANEW.
02
Discuss
OBTAINING TRUTH FROM JUNAVE 1 WILL BE TIME CONSUMING. HE FULLY
AWARE PROOFS AGAINST HIM BUT PROBABLY HOPES POLITICAL PRESSURE WILL FORCE
RELEASE AND PROBABLY FEARS ADMISSION OF HIS COMPLICITY WILL NOT HELP
HIM.
SALV GOVT MUST CONVINCE HIM ME WRONG ON BOTH COUNTS. HE OF
DUBIOUS VALUE INSOFAR AS CONTRIBUTING NEW INFO ABOUT PAST ACTIVITIES
OF CUBAN INTEL OR PCES BUT OF CONSIDERABLE INTEREST AS AGENT IF HE
CAN BE TARGETTED AGAINST CUBAN INTEL OR PCES. IF RELEASED WOULD BE
DEFINITE OBSTACLE TO FURTHER OPS AGAINST ANNUG TATTS. IF HE SHOULD
OPPOSE HIS IMPRISONMENT WOULD COVER RECRUITMENT AND WOULD TEND TO
ENHANCE HIS VALUE. PROBABLY WOULD BE MOST USEFUL OUTSIDE SALV
INCLUDING MEXI AND CUBA.
SECRET
3154
1

14-00000
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
AS-8477726 STAND MOST IMP
RECRUITMENTS BECAUSE OF VALUE OF
ALTICA TO EFFECT
VE. OF THAT PRO
SECRET
BY SPREAD OF NEWS ABOUT AND EFFORTS OF
2. PORFER FOR PRESENT NOT
TO PROCEED AGAINST OTHERS WHO RECEIVED INTEL TRAINING
IS PRODUCING AND AFTER PRUDENT INTERVAL MUNARKAN DECORED WITH
RECRUITMENT EFFORT AGAINST OTHERS EITHER UNILATERALLY OR WITH LIAISON
DEPENDING ON DEVELOPMENTS.
PROCEEDING WITH ARREST OF GUERRILLEROS DETAINED:
WOULD BE BENEFICIAL AS LONG AS NOT ATTRIBUTED TO ANTING.
CUBA PROBABLY
IN ADDITION
TO BENEFITS OF CA PLAY, SOME OF THOSE DETAINED MIGHT BE DOUBLED
AID TARGETTED AGAINST GUERRILLA COUP OR PCES.
5.
APPRECIATE PEFE TO WHICH WILL REPLY AFTER DISCUSSING FURTHER
PROSPECTS AND GOVT INTENTIONS WITH [JUHILLIARD POSSIBLY PRESIDENT]. 01,08
SECRET
01
* [JUHALL-T]
AGNEEV
HASS
MITT SKAPA
WHEN LANGOSCH WHILE [IF]
SECRET
02
