```markdown
14-00000

[104-10194-10023] | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |.

14-00000

SECRET
(Filled In)

**CERTIFICATION OF SEPARATING EMPLOYEE**

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD - ATTACH TO OFFICIAL PERSONNEL FOLDER

Name (Last-First-Middle)

HUNT, E. HOWARD, Jr.

I hereby acknowledge the receipt of the following forms and/or information concerning my separation from CIA as indicated by check:

1. Standard Form 8 (Notice to Federal Employee about Unemployment Compensation).
2. Standard Form 55 (Notice of Conversion Privilege, Federal Employees' Group Life Insurance).
3. Standard Form 56 (Agency Certification of Insurance Status, Federal Employees' Group Life Insurance Act of 1956).
4. Standard Form 2802 (Application for Refund of Retirement Deductions).
5. Form 2595 (Authorization for Disposition of Paychecks).
6. Applicable to returnee (resignee from overseas assignment).

I have been advised of my right to have a medical examination before my separation from this Agency and of the importance of such a medical check to my health and well-being.

Appointment arranged with Neal Sons.
Appointment for Office of Medical Services declined.

I have been advised of the Agency's conflict of interests' policy of the Agency and my responsibilities in that regard, concerning my new employment.

7. Know Your Rights of Federal Employees Performing Armed Service (Instructions for returning to duty from Extended Leave or Active Military Service).

E. Howard Hunt, Jr.
Signature of Employee
Date Signed
11120 River Rd., Potomac, Md. 20854
Address (Street, City, State, Zip Code)
Correspondence
Overt
Covert

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: HUNT, E. HOWARD

INCLUSIVE DATES: 17 May 1948 - 21 June 1972

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: OP

ROOM: 5E13

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE RECEIVED: 2/25/78
DATE RETURNED: 2/28/78
REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME): DAN HANDWAY
SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL: Dan Handway

DATE RECEIVED: 3/15/78
DATE RETURNED: 3/15/78
REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME): DAN HANDWAY
SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL: Dan Handway

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

SECRET
TERMINATED

14-00000

STANDARD FORM 57 - NOV. 1947
U. S. CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION

APPLICATION FOR FEDERAL EMPLOYMENT

INSTRUCTIONS: In order to prevent delay in consideration of your application, answer every question on this form clearly and completely. Type,
write or print in INK. If you are applying for a specific United States Civil Service
examination, read the examination announcement carefully and follow all
instructions on the admission card regarding disposition of this application.
If you are applying for an UNWRITTEN examination, mail this application
to the office named in the announcement. Be sure to mail to the same office
any other forms required by the announcement. Notify the office with which
you file this application of any change in your address.

1. NAME OF EXAMINATION OR KIND OF POSITION APPLIED FOR
Intelligence Officer

2. OPTIONS (if mentioned in examination announcement)

3. PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT APPLIED FOR (City and State)
Washington, D.C.

5. (A) STREET AND NUMBER OR R. D. NUMBER
30 Willett Street

(B) CITY OR POST OFFICE (including postal zone) AND STATE
Albany 6, New York

7. LEGAL OR VOTING RESIDENCE (State)
New York

9. DATE OF BIRTH (month, day, year)
Oct. 9, 1918

11. PLACE OF BIRTH (city and State, if born outside U. S., name city and country)
Hamburg, Erie County, New York

13. (A) HEIGHT WITHOUT SHOES:
5 FEET 10 INCHES

(B) WEIGHT:
165 POUNDS

14. (A) HAVE YOU EVER BEEN EMPLOYED BY THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT? ☐ YES ☑ NO

(B) IF SO, GIVE LAST GRADE AND DATE OF LAST CHANGE IN GRADE

15. (A) WHAT IS THE LOWEST ENTRANCE SALARY YOU WILL ACCEPT? $4,500 PER YEAR.
You will not be considered for any position with a lower entrance
salary.

(B) CHECK IF YOU WILL ACCEPT SHORT-TERM APPOINTMENT IF OFFERED, FOR:
☐ 1 TO 3 MONTHS ☐ 3 TO 6 MONTHS ☑ 6 TO 12 MONTHS
NOTE: Acceptance or refusal of a temporary short-term appointment
will not affect your opportunity to obtain a probational appointment.

(C) IF YOU ARE WILLING TO TRAVEL SPECIFY:
☐ OCCASIONALLY ☑ FREQUENTLY ☐ CONSTANTLY

16. EXPERIENCE: It is important for you to furnish all information requested
below in sufficient detail to enable the Civil Service Commission and the
appointing officers of agencies to give you full credit in determining your
qualifications. Use a separate block for each position. Start with your
present position and work back, explaining clearly the principal tasks which
you performed in each position, accounting for all periods of unemployment.
Experience gained more than 15 years ago which is not pertinent to the work
for which you are applying may be summarized in one or more of the blocks.
If your duties changed materially while working for the same employer, use
a separate block to describe each position. You may include any pertinent
information.
DATES OF EMPLOYMENT (month, year)
FROM
TO PRESENT TIME
EXACT TITLE OF YOUR PRESENT POSITION
(If in Federal Service)
CLASSIFICATION GRADE
PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT (city and State)
NAME AND TITLE OF IMMEDIATE SUPERVISOR
NAME AND ADDRESS OF EMPLOYER (firm, organization, or person; if Federal,
name department, bureau or establishment, and division)
KIND OF BUSINESS OR ORGANIZATION (e.g. wholesale silk, insurance agency,
manufacture of locks, etc.)
NUMBER AND KIND OF EMPLOYEES SUPERVISED BY YOU
DESCRIPTION OF YOUR WORK
REASON FOR DESIRING TO CHANGE EMPLOYMENT
(CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE)

14-00000

16 CONTINUED
DATES OF EMPLOYMENT (month, year)
FROM
April 1948
TO Feb. 1949
PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT (city and State)
Paris, France
NAME AND ADDRESS OF EMPLOYER (firm, organization, or person; if Federal,
name department, bureau or establishment, and division)
Economic Cooperation Administration
2 rue St. Florentin, Paris 1, France
NUMBER AND KIND OF EMPLOYEES SUPERVISED BY YOU
None
DESCRIPTION OF YOUR WORK
Public relations work. Also speech writing for Ambassador
Harriman; film production.
DATES OF EMPLOYMENT (month, year)
FROM Oct. 1943
TO Jan. 1943
PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT (city and State)
New York, NY.
NAME AND ADDRESS OF EMPLOYER (firm, organization, or person; if Federal,
name department, bureau or establishment, and division)
Rockefeller Plaza, NY.
The March of Time, Inc.
NUMBER AND KIND OF EMPLOYEES SUPERVISED BY YOU
None
DESCRIPTION OF YOUR WORK
Write Naval training films and assist on monthly
combat release.
DATES OF EMPLOYMENT (month, year)
FROM Oct. 1942
TO Jan. 1943
PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT (city and State)
New York, NY.
NAME AND ADDRESS OF EMPLOYER (firm, organization, or person; if Federal,
name department, bureau or establishment, and division)
369 Lexington Avenue, New York 16
Louis de Rochemont Films
NUMBER AND KIND OF EMPLOYEES SUPERVISED BY YOU
None
DESCRIPTION OF YOUR WORK
Script writer.
EXACT TITLE OF YOUR POSITION
(in Federal service)
U.S. Media Specialist
NAME AND TITLE OF IMMEDIATE SUPERVISOR
J.H. Fleming
KIND OF BUSINESS OR ORGANIZATION (e.g. wholesale silk, insurance agency,
manufacture of locks, etc.)
Public relations
REASON FOR LEAVING
DATES OF EMPLOYMENT (month, year)
FROM
TO
PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT (city and State)
NAME AND ADDRESS OF EMPLOYER (firm, organization, or person; if Federal,
name department, bureau or establishment, and division)
NUMBER AND KIND OF EMPLOYEES SUPERVISED BY YOU
DESCRIPTION OF YOUR WORK
REASON FOR LEAVING
(If Federal service)
EXACT TITLE OF YOUR POSITION
NAME AND TITLE OF IMMEDIATE SUPERVISOR
KIND OF BUSINESS OR ORGANIZATION (e.g. wholesale silk, insurance agency,
manufacture of locks, etc.)

If more space is required, use a continuation sheet (Standard Form No. 34) or a sheet of paper the same size as this. Write on each sheet your
name, address, date of birth, and examination title. Attach to inside of this application.
17. Describe below any training received in or experience gained in or out of the Armed Services (not already listed under Item 16) that would assist
appointing officers in placing you most effectively. Indicate actual amount of training received, such as hours per week. Detailed information regard-
ing any special service schools you attended is especially important. (Extra pages may be used to give full description.)
DATES
FROM
TO
2/41 5/41
1/44 6/44
6/44 8/44
1/45 3/45
LOCATION
U.S. Naval Academy
Miami Beach
Orlando, Fla.
Catalina Island
DESCRIPTION OF TRAINING
USNR Midshipman's Course
AAF/OCS
AAF Combat Intelligence School
Office of Strategic Services
Clandestine School
18 EDUCATION. (Circle highest grade completed): (A) GIVE NAME AND LOCATION OF LAST HIGH SCHOOL ATTENDED.
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 Hamburg (N.Y.) High
MARK (X) THE APPROPRIATE BOX TO INDICATE SATISFACTORY COMPLETION OF: (B) SUBJECTS STUDIED IN HIGH SCHOOL WHICH APPLY TO POSITION DESIRED
☐ ELEMENTARY SCHOOL ☑ JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOL ☑ SENIOR HIGH SCHOOL not applicable
DATES ATTENDED
YEARS COMPLETED
DEGREES CONFERRED
(C) NAME AND LOCATION OF COLLEGE OR UNIVERSITY
MAJOR
AND
SPECIALTY
FROM
TO
DAY
NIGHT
SEMESTER
HOURS
CREDIT
Brown University,
Providence, R.I.
English
1936 1940
A.B. June 1940
(D) LIST YOUR CHIEF UNDERGRADUATE COLLEGE SUBJECTS
English Literature
Economics
Sociology
(E) OTHER TRAINING, SUCH AS VOCATIONAL, BUSINESS, STUDY COURSES GIVEN
THROUGH THE ARMED FORCES INSTITUTE (show name and location
of school) OR "IN-SERVICE TRAINING" IN PUBLIC OR PRIVATE EMPLOYMENT
19. INDICATE YOUR KNOWLEDGE OF
FOREIGN LANGUAGES
READING
SPEAKING
UNDERSTANDING
22. ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN A LICENSED OR CERTIFIED MEMBER OF ANY TRADE OR PRO-
FESSION (such as pilot, electrician, radio operator, teacher, lawyer, CPA, etc.)
☐ YES ☑ NO GIVE KIND OF LICENSE AND STATE:
Spanish
FIRST LICENSE OR CERTIFICATE (YEAR):
LATEST LICENSE OR CERTIFICATE (YEAR):
20. IF YOU HAVE TRAVELED OR RESIDED IN ANY FOREIGN COUNTRIES, INDICATE:
(1) NAMES OF COUNTRIES (2) DATES AND LENGTH OF TIME SPENT THERE, AND
(3) REASON OR PURPOSE (e.g. military service, business, educa-
tion, recreation)
See list attached
21. LIST ANY SPECIAL SKILLS OR ABILITIES AND MACHINES AND EQUIPMENT YOU
CAN USE, SUCH AS OPERATION OF SHORT WAVE RADIO, MULTILITH, COMPTOM-
ETER, KEY-PUNCH, TURRET LATHE, SCIENTIFIC OR PROFESSIONAL DEVICES
23. LIST ANY SPECIAL QUALIFICATIONS NOT COVERED ELSEWHERE IN YOUR APPLICATION, SUCH AS:
(A) YOUR MORE IMPORTANT PUBLICATIONS (do not submit copies unless requested)
(B) YOUR PATENTS OR INVENTIONS
(C) PUBLIC SPEAKING AND PUBLIC RELATIONS EXPERIENCE
(D) MEMBERSHIP IN PROFESSIONAL, ACADEMIC OR HONORARY SOCIETIES, ETC.
(E) HONORS AND FELLOWSHIPS RECEIVED
Covered in detail: "Who's Who in the
East" VolII
APPROXIMATE NUMBER OF WORDS PER MINUTE IN TYPING SHORTHAND

--- Page 53 ---

14-00000
(For those who are NOT related to you,
see listed under Item 16 (EXPERIENCE).
24 REFERENCES List three persons living in the United States or Territories of the United States who are familiar with your
character, qualifications and fitness for the position for which you are applying. Do not repeat names of supervisors listed under Item 16 (EXPERIENCE).
FULL NAME
Maj. Gen. Wm. J. Donovan
John C. Farrar
Raymond Rubicam
(Give complete current address, including street and number)
2 Wall Street, New York 5, N.Y.
53 East 34th Street, New York 16
444 Madison Avenue, New York 18
BUSINESS OR OCCUPATION
Attorney
Publisher
Executive
INDICATE "YES" OR "NO" ANSWER BY PLACING "X" IN PROPER COLUMN
25 MAY INQUIRY BE MADE OF YOUR PRESENT EMPLOYER REGARDING YOUR
CHARACTER, QUALIFICATIONS, ETC.?
26 ARE YOU A CITIZEN OF OR DO YOU OWE ALLEGIANCE TO THE UNITED
STATES?
27 ARE YOU NOW, OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN, A MEMBER OF THE COMMUNIST
PARTY OR ANY COMMUNIST ORGANIZATION?
28 ARE YOU NOW, OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN, A MEMBER OF A FASCIST ORGAN-
IZATION?
29 ARE YOU NOW, OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN, A MEMBER OF ANY ORGANIZA-
TION, ASSOCIATION, MOVEMENT, GROUP OR COMBINATION OF PERSONS WHICH AD-
VOCATES THE OVERTHROW OF OUR CONSTITUTIONAL FORM OF GOVERNMENT, OR
WHICH ADVOCATES OR APPROVES THE COMMISSION OF ACTS OF FORCE OR VIOLENCE
TO DENY OTHER PERSONS THEIR RIGHTS UNDER THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES OR OF SEEKING TO ALTER THE FORM OF GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES BY UNCON-
STITUTIONAL MEANS?
If your answer to question 27, 28, or 29 above is "Yes," state
in Item 39 the names of all such organizations, associations,
movements, groups, or combination of persons and dates of
membership. Give complete details of your activities
therein and make any explanation you desire regarding
your membership or activities therein.
30. SINCE YOUR 16TH BIRTHDAY, HAVE YOU EVER BEEN ARRESTED, INDICTED
OR SUMMONED INTO COURT AS A DEFENDANT IN A CRIMINAL PROCEEDING
OR CONVICTED, FINED, OR IMPRISONED OR PLACED ON PROBATION OR HAVE
YOU EVER BEEN ORDERED TO DEPOSIT BAIL OR COLLATERAL FOR THE VIOLA-
TION OF ANY LAW, POLICE REGULATION OR ORDINANCE (INCLUDING
TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS FOR WHICH A FINE OR FORFEITURE OF $25 OR LESS WAS
IMPOSED)?
If your answer is "Yes," list all such cases under Item 39
below. Give in each case (1) the date, (2) the nature of the
offense or violation; (3) the name and location of the court;
(4) the penalty imposed, if any, or other disposition of the
case. If appointed, your fingerprints will be taken.
31. HAVE YOU EVER BEEN DISCHARGED OR FORCED TO RESIGN FOR MISCON-
DUCT OR UNSATISFACTORY SERVICE FROM ANY POSITION?
If your answer is "Yes," give in Item 39 the name and
address of employer, date, and reason in each case.
32. HAVE YOU EVER BEEN BARRED BY THE U. S. CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION
FROM TAKING EXAMINATIONS OR ACCEPTING CIVIL SERVICE APPOINTMENTS?
If your answer is "Yes," give dates of and reasons for
such debarment in Item 39.
33. DO YOU HAVE ANY PHYSICAL HANDICAP, DISEASE OR OTHER DISABILITY
WHICH SHOULD BE CONSIDERED IN ASSIGNING YOU TO WORK?
If your answer is "Yes," give complete details in Item 39.
that consideration can be given to your physical fitness for
the job.
34. DO YOU RECEIVE AN ANNUITY FROM THE UNITED STATES OR DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA GOVERNMENT UNDER ANY RETIREMENT ACT OR ANY PENSION
OR OTHER COMPENSATION FOR MILITARY OR NAVAL SERVICE?
If your answer is "Yes," give complete details in Item 39
INDICATE "YES" OR "NO" ANSWER BY PLACING "X" IN PROPER COLUMN
YES NO
☑
☑
☑
☑
☑
☑
☑
☑
☑
☑
☑
☑
☑
☑
☑
☑
☑
☑
☑
☑
☑
☑
☑
(A) ARE YOU AN OFFICIAL OR EMPLOYEE OF ANY STATE, TERRITORY, COUNTY, OR
MUNICIPALITY?
(B) ARE YOU A CITIZEN OF OR DO YOU OWE ALLEGIANCE TO THE UNITED
STATES?
(C) ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN A MEMBER OF THE COMMUNIST
PARTY OR ANY COMMUNIST ORGANIZATION?
(D) ARE YOU NOW, OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN, A MEMBER OF A FASCIST ORGAN-
IZATION?
(E) ARE YOU NOW, OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN, A MEMBER OF ANY ORGANIZATION,
ASSOCIATION, MOVEMENT, GROUP OR COMBINATION OF PERSONS WHICH AD-
VOCATES THE OVERTHROW OF OUR CONSTITUTIONAL FORM OF GOVERNMENT, OR
WHICH ADVOCATES OR APPROVES THE COMMISSION OF ACTS OF FORCE OR VIOLENCE
TO DENY OTHER PERSONS THEIR RIGHTS UNDER THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES OR OF SEEKING TO ALTER THE FORM OF GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES BY UNCON-
STITUTIONAL MEANS?
35. (A) ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN A MEMBER OF THE COMMUNIST
PARTY OR ANY COMMUNIST ORGANIZATION?
(B) ARE YOU NOW, OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN A MEMBER OF A FASCIST ORGAN-
IZATION?
(C) ARE YOU NOW, OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN A MEMBER OF ANY ORGANIZATION,
ASSOCIATION, MOVEMENT, GROUP OR COMBINATION OF PERSONS WHICH AD-
VOCATES THE OVERTHROW OF OUR CONSTITUTIONAL FORM OF GOVERNMENT, OR
WHICH ADVOCATES OR APPROVES THE COMMISSION OF ACTS OF FORCE OR VIOLENCE
TO DENY OTHER PERSONS THEIR RIGHTS UNDER THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES OR OF SEEKING TO ALTER THE FORM OF GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES BY UNCON-
STITUTIONAL MEANS?
If your answer to question 35 (A), (B), or (C) is "Yes," show in Item 39 for EACH such
relative (1) full name; (2) present address; (3) relationship;
(4) Department or Agency by which employed; and (5) kind
of appointment.
SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR CLAIMING VETERAN PREFERENCE
A. If you are claiming preference as a PEACETIME VETERAN who has
been awarded a campaign badge or service ribbon, or as a DISABLED VET-
ERAN, or as the WIFE OF A DISABLED VETERAN, or as the WIDOW OF
A WAR OR CAMPAIGN VETERAN, attach Veteran Preference Claim,
CSC Form 14, together with proof specified therein.
B. If you are a WAR-TIME VETERAN not claiming disability preference,
you should NOT submit your discharge with this application. Preference will
be tentatively credited to you and if appointed, you will be required to submit
to the appointing officer prior to entry on duty, official evidence of separa-
tion from active service in the armed forces of the United States in time of war.
37. (A) WERE YOU EVER IN THE UNITED STATES MILITARY OR NAVAL SERVICE
DURING TIME OF WAR?
(B) IF SO, GIVE BRANCH OF SERVICE (Army, Navy,
Marine Corps, Coast Guard, etc.)
(B) WAS THE WORD "HONORABLE" OR THE WORD "SATISFACTORY" USED
IN YOUR DISCHARGE OR SEPARATION PAPERS TO SHOW THE TYPE OF YOUR
DISCHARGE OR SEPARATION?
(C) WAS SERVICE PERFORMED ON AN ACTIVE FULL-TIME BASIS, WITH FULL
MILITARY PAY AND ALLOWANCES?
(D) DATE OF ENTRY OR ENTRIES INTO SERVICE, DATE OF SEPARATION OR SEPARATIONS
See below
(E) SERIAL NO. (if none, give grade or
rating at time of separation)
See below
If your answer is "Yes," give in Item 39 the name and
address of employer, date, and reason in each case.
38. (A) IF YOU SERVED IN THE UNITED STATES MILITARY OR NAVAL SERVICE
DURING PEACETIME ONLY, DID YOU PARTICIPATE IN A CAMPAIGN OR EXPEDI-
TION AND RECEIVE A CAMPAIGN BADGE OR SERVICE RIBBON?
(B) ARE YOU A DISABLED VETERAN?
If so, and you have not listed your disability in answer to
Item 33, explain in Item 39 below.
(C) ARE YOU A VETERAN'S WIDOW WHO HAS NOT REMARRIED?
(D) ARE YOU THE WIFE OF A VETERAN WHO HAS A SERVICE CONNECTED
DISABILITY WHICH DISQUALIFIES HIM FOR CIVIL SERVICE EMPLOYMENT?
THIS SPACE FOR USE OF APPOINTING OFFICER ONLY
The information contained in the answers to Question 37 above has been veri-
fied by comparison with the discharge certificate on
Agency:
Title:
(List Item numbers to which answers apply)
ITEM NO.
ITEM NO.
37 Navy: July 1940 - March 1942; Serial 0-587241
Army: Oct. 1943 - Feb. 1946 197532
If more space is required, use paper the same size as this page. Write on each sheet your name, address, date of birth, and examination title. Attach to inside
of this application.
Before signing this application check back over it to make sure that you have answered ALL questions correctly.
I CERTIFY that the statements made by me in this application are true, complete, and correct to the best of my knowledge
and belief, and are made in good faith.
False statement on this application
is punishable by Law (U. S. Code,
Title 18, Section 80).
* SIGNATURE OF APPLICANT
(Print or type name in full (one given
name, initial or initials, and surname). If female,
give your own given name, not husband's.
E. Howard Hunt
(Initial or initiate, and surname) If formerly
married, give your own given name, not husband's.
MAILING OFFICE
14-424-

--- Page 54 ---

14-00000
PERSONNEL ACTION REQUEST
NATURE OF ACTION:
EFFECTIVE DATE:
FOR SEPARATIONS, TRANSFERS OUT, AND RESIGNATIONS
LAST WORKING DAY:
FOR RESIGNATIONS FROM FEDERAL SERVICE ONLY
SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE
Attached are 2 forms 57.
Security initiated 3 June 1949.
3
bid 13 June 1949
eka
Oct 94637°3
134).

--- Page 55 ---

14-00000
STANDARD FORM 50 (REV. 1946)
PRESCRIBED BY
U.S. CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION
F.C.
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION
1. NAME (LAST - FIRST - MIDDLE INITIAL LAST)
Mr. Howard Hunt
2 DATE OF BIRTH
10-9-18
JOURNAL OR ACTION NO;
4 DATE
This is to notify you of the following action affecting your employment:
5 NATURE OF ACTION (USE STANDARD TERMINOLOGY)
Excepted Appointemt Schedule A-6.206(b)
6 EFFECTIVE DATE
7. CIVIL SERVICE OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY
FROM
TO
7. POSITION TITLE
Intelligence Officer GS-13
(Editor)
9. SERVICE. GRADE.
SALARY
GS-13, $7600.00 per annum
10 ORGANIZATIONAL
DESIGNATIONS
OPC
Programa & Planning Staff
Program Group II
Editorial Prod. Division
11. HEADQUARTERS
Washington, D. C.
12 FIELD OR DEPTL
FIELD
DEPARTMENTAL
13. REMARKS
Appointment is subject to the satisfactory completion of a trial period of one year.
15 VETERAN'S PREFERENCE
NONE 5 PT.
10 POINT
DISAB WIFE
OTHER
14 POSITION CLASSIFICATION ACTION
NEW VICE
17
19. APPROPRIATION
FROM
TO
1. PERSONNEL FOLDER COPY
Acting Director of Personnel
14 SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION
21. DATE OF APPOINT-
MENT OF AFFIDAVITS
(ACCESSIONS ONLY)
22 LEGAL RESIDENCE
20 SUBJECT TO C. S
RETIREMENT ACT
(YES-NO)
Yes
4.

--- Page 56 ---

14-00000
PERSONAL HISTORY STATEMENT
Instructions: 1. Answer all questions completely. If question does not apply write "not applic-
able." Write "unknown" only if you do not know the answer and cannot obtain
the answer from personal records. Use the blank pages at the end of this form
for extra details on any question or questions for which you do not have suffi-
cient room.
2. Type, print or write carefully; illegible or incomplete forms will not receive con-
sideration.
HAVE YOU READ AND DO YOU UNDERSTAND THE INSTRUCTIONS? Yes
SEC. 1. PERSONAL BACKGROUND
Telephone:
A. FULL NAME Mr.
(Use No
Initials)
First
Middle
Last
Home:
PRESENT ADDRESS 10 Willett Street, Albany 6, New York, USA
St. & No.
City
State
Country
PERMANENT ADDRESS 30 Willett Street, Albany 6, New York, USA
St. & No.
City
State
Country
B. NICKNAME Howie
WHAT OTHER NAMES HAVE YOU USED? Howard Hunt
UNDER WHAT CIRCUMSTANCES HAVE YOU EVER USED THESE
NAMES? nom de plume
HOW LONG? 7 years IF A LEGAL CHANGE, GIVE PARTICULARS
Where?
By What Authority
C. DATE OF BIRTH 10/9/18 PLACE OF BIRTH Hamburg, New York, USA
City
State
Country
D. PRESENT CITIZENSHIP USA BY BIRTH? Yes BY MARRIAGE?
BY NATURALIZATION CERTIFICATE
ISSUED BY
Date
Court
City
State
County
HAVE YOU HAD A PREVIOUS NATIONALITY? No
Country
HELD BETWEEN WHAT DATES?
TO
ANY OTHER NATIONALITY?
Country
GIVE PARTICULARS
not applicable
HAVE YOU TAKEN STEPS TO CHANGE PRESENT CITIZENSHIP? No GIVE PARTICULARS:
not applicable
FORM NO.
SEP 1948
30-1
(4-10)

--- Page 57 ---

14-00000
2
E. IF BORN OUTSIDE U.S. WHEN DID YOU FIRST ARRIVE IN THIS COUNTRY?
PORT OF ENTRY?
ON PASSPORT OF WHAT COUNTRY?
LAST U.S. VISA
Number
Type
Place of Issue
Date of Issue
SEC. 2. PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION
AGE 30 SEX Male HEIGHT 5'10 1/2" WEIGHT 168
EYES Blue HAIR Brown COMPLEXION Fair SCARS right eyebrow
BUILD medium OTHER DISTINGUISHING FEATURES None
SEC. 3. MARITAL STATUS
A. SINGLE X MARRIED DIVORCED WIDOWED
STATE DATE, PLACE, AND REASON FOR ALL SEPARATIONS, DIVORCES OR ANNULMENTS
not applicable
(IF YOU HAVE BEEN MARRIED MORE THAN ONCE INCLUDE ANNUL-
B. WIFE OR HUSBAND MENTS - USE A SEPARATE SHEET FOR FORMER WIFE OR HUSBAND
GIVING DATA REQUIRED BELOW FOR ALL PREVIOUS MARRIAGES.)
NAME OF SPOUSE Dorothy Louise Wetzel Hunt
First
Middle
Maiden
Last
PLACE AND DATE OF MARRIAGE Millbrook, New York, Sept. 7, 1940
HIS (OR HER) ADDRESS BEFORE MARRIAGE Sarasota, Florida
St. & No.
City
State
Country
LIVING OR DECEASED Living DATE OF DECEASE CAUSE
PRESENT, OR LAST, ADDRESS 30 Willett Street, Albany 6, New York, USA
St. & No.
City
State
Country
DATE OF BIRTH 1 April 1920 PLACE OF BIRTH Dayton, Ohio, USA
City
State
Country
IF BORN OUTSIDE U.S. INDICATE DATE AND PLACE OF ENTRY not applicable
CITIZENSHIP USA WHEN ACQUIRED? Birth WHERE?
City State Country
OCCUPATION House wife LAST EMPLOYER none
EMPLOYER'S OR BUSINESS ADDRESS
St. & No.
City
State
Country
MILITARY SERVICE FROM
TO
BRANCH OF SERVICE
Date
Date
COUNTRY
DETAILS OF OTHER GOV'T SERVICE, U.S. OR FOREIGN
ECA, Paris April 1948 - Feb. 1949
F
SEC. 4. CHILDREN OR DEPENDENTS (Include partial dependents) None
1. NAME
RELATIONSHIP
AGE
CITIZENSHIP
ADDRESS
St. & No.
City
State
Country

--- Page 58 ---

14-00000
SEC. 5. FATHER (Give the same information for stepfather and/or guardian on a separate sheet)
FULL NAME
Everett Howard Hunt
First
Middle
Last
LIVING OR DECEASED Living DATE OF DECEASE CAUSE
PRESENT, OR, LAST, ADDRESS 30 Willett Street, Albany 6, N.Y., USA
St. & No.
City
State
Country
DATE OF BIRTH 13 Dec 1888 PLACE OF BIRTH Hamburg, New York, USA
City
State
Country
IF BORN OUTSIDE U.S. INDICATE DATE AND PLACE OF ENTRY
CITIZENSHIP USA WHEN ACQUIRED? Birth WHERE?
City State Country
OCCUPATION Lawyer LAST EMPLOYER Self
EMPLOYER'S OR OWN BUSINESS ADDRESS
11 North Pearl St., Albany, NY
St. & No.
City
State
Country
MILITARY SERVICE FROM 1916 TO 1918 BRANCH OF SERVICE Air Service, SC
Date
Date
COUNTRY USA DETAILS OF OTHER GOV'T SERVICE, U.S. OR FOREIGN
not applicable
SEC. 6. MOTHER (Give the same information for stepmother on a separate sheet)
FULL NAME Ethel Jean (Hamburg) Hunt
First
Middle
Last
LIVING OR DECEASED Living DATE OF DECEASE CAUSE
PRESENT, OR LAST, ADDRESS 30 Willett Street, Albany 6, N.Y., USA
St. & No.
City
State
Country
DATE OF BIRTH 15 March 1891 PLACE OF BIRTH Canal Dover, Ohio, USA
City
State
Country
IF BORN OUTSIDE U.S. INDICATE DATE AND PLACE OF ENTRY
CITIZENSHIP USA WHEN ACQUIRED? Birth WHERE?
City State Country

--- Page 59 ---

14-00000
SEC. 7. BROTHERS AND SISTERS (Including half-, step-, and adopted brothers and sisters)
1. FULL NAME
not applicable
First
Middle
Last
AGE
PRESENT ADDRESS
St. & No.
City
State
Country
Citizenship
2. FULL NAME
First
Middle
Last
AGE
PRESENT ADDRESS
St. & No.
City
State
Country
Citizenship
3. FULL NAME
First
Middle
Last
AGE
PRESENT ADDRESS
St. & No.
City
State
Country
Citizenship
4. FULL NAME
First
Middle
Last
AGE
PRESENT ADDRESS
St. & No.
City
State
Country
Citizenship
SEC. 8. FATHER-IN-LAW
FULL NAME
Albert Charles Wetzel
First
Middle
Last
LIVING OR DECEASED Living DATE OF DECEASE CAUSE
PRESENT, OR LAST, ADDRESS 4474 Siesta Drive, Sarasota, Fla., USA
St. & No.
City
State
Country
DATE OF BIRTH 1877 PLACE OF BIRTH Dayton, Ohio, USA
City
State
Country
IF BORN OUTSIDE U.S. INDICATE DATE AND PLACE OF ENTRY
CITIZENSHIP USA WHEN ACQUIRED? Birth WHERE?
City State Country
OCCUPATION Lawyer LAST EMPLOYER none

--- Page 60 ---

14-00000
SEC. 9. MOTHER-IN-LAW
FULL NAME
First
Middle
LIVING OR DECEASED Living
PRESENT, OR LAST, ADDRESS
St. & No.
DATE OF BIRTH
PLACE OF BIRTH
IF BORN OUTSIDE U.S. INDICATE DATE AND PLACE OF ENTRY
CITIZENSHIP
OCCUPATION
WHEN ACQUIRED?
Last
DATE OF DECEASE
City
State
WHERE?
City State
LAST EMPLOYER
Country
Country
SEC. 10. RELATIVES BY BLOOD, MARRIAGE OR ADOPTION, WHO EITHER LIVE ABROAD OR
WHO ARE NOT CITIZENS OF THE UNITED STATES:
1. NAME
not applicable
RELATIONSHIP
AGE
CITIZENSHIP
ADDRESS
St. & No.
City
State
Country
2. NAME
RELATIONSHIP
AGE
CITIZENSHIP
ADDRESS
St. & No.
City
State
Country
3. NAME
RELATIONSHIP
AGE
CITIZENSHIP
ADDRESS
St. & No.
City
State
Country
SEC. 11. RELATIVES BY BLOOD OR MARRIAGE IN THE MILITARY OR CIVIL SERVICE OF
THE U.S. OR OF A FOREIGN GOVERNMENT.
1. NAME
not applicable
RELATIONSHIP
AGE
CITIZENSHIP
ADDRESS
St. & No.
City
State
Country
TYPE AND LOCATION OF SERVICE (IF KNOWN)
2. NAME
RELATIONSHIP
AGE
CITIZENSHIP
ADDRESS
St. & No.
City
State
Country
TYPE AND LOCATION OF SERVICE (IF KNOWN)
3. NAME
RELATIONSHIP
AGE
CITIZENSHIP
ADDRESS
St. & No.
City
State
Country
TYPE AND LOCATION OF SERVICE (IF KNOWN)

--- Page 61 ---

14-00000
SEC. 12.
EDUCATION
ELEMENTARY SCHOOL Hamburg PS.
ADDRESS Hamburg, N.Y., USA
City
State
Country
DATES ATTENDED 1924-1932 GRADUATE? Yes
HIGH SCHOOL Hamburg High School ADDRESS Hamburg, N.Y., USA
City
State
Country
DATES ATTENDED 1932-1936 GRADUATE? Yes
COLLEGE Brown University ADDRESS Providence, R.I., USA
City
State
Country
DATES ATTENDED 1936-1940 DEGREE A.B.
COLLEGE
ADDRESS
City
State
Country
DATES ATTENDED
DEGREE
SEC. 13. MILITARY, NAVAL OR OTHER GOV'T SERVICE - U.S. OR FOREIGN
USA
USAAF
1st Lt.
3-1945
1946
1940-1942
USA
USNR
Ensign
REMARKS:
SELECTIVE SERVICE BOARD NUMBER
none
ADDRESS
IF DEFERRED GIVE REASON
INDICATE MEMBERSHIP IN MILITARY RESERVE ORGANIZATIONS
SEC. 