104-10183-10347
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
ST PET
Background Use Only
RETURN TO CIA
Do Not Reproduce

1. send to
2. [Luban of in] 06
3. [MONTERREY Dufor] 06
4. Nicaraguan trained in guerilla warfare, late 1963
5. [Covito PERES Rance] 06
6. compared to J. Antonio CURCA Rive] 06
7. [The Carla MIRILLOS Rance] 06
8. Salvadorans, trained in guerilla warfare, 1963
9. [Lubits impass: Augis PERNIE Only] 06
10. trained [Pad SANTACRUZ (Asti)] 06
11. [Astraders, trained in guerilla warfare] 06
12. [Clapp] aka 1963
13. [of Jav GONZALES PA] 06
14. compared to [DURAN (ar)] 06
15. trained in guerilla warfare 1963
16. [Cutar] 06
17. trained in guerilla warfare 1963
18. [Refint on] 06
19. [Mariss] 06

SECRET

7. D.C. Case file 2APOTE intentory
8. Data on 3 agents
    *   [P DALTON Lavora] 06
    *   [Legards Annig] 06
    *   [The bento CALDERON Connelly] 06
9. SW Instructions
    *   Legal lift signature for agent Condition
    *   Accommodation address & description if compact
    *   Contact
    *   SW + 2-way radio
    *   Reaction of
    *   Land delay
    *   Contain plan for [MONTANO] 06
    *   Option of trip-priming
    *   Signal - telegram with by plane
    *   Reception also
    *   Alternate meeting date
    *   Signal - belly with
10. Regal
    *   Critical device com for [BANTON] 06
    *   Itinerary for [DRATON] 06

j) Clandestine communications for trip to Mexico
    *   Planeteiph
    *   Facilities
k) Clandestine movement
l) Surveillance for 5.2 meters
m) list from mines (both died), requisition to liaison, lob reports
n) Clandestine bys to Mali evening stove
o) Case office too plaint to lead if jan he
p) Clandestine message from his to main.
11. LAPOTE L'Ave
12. Lambton of
13. Ant of DG Organization
14. English suite
15. One es dissemination
    *   file contact m
