```markdown
14-00000

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS
FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: ARTIME, Buesa, Manuel
201-0267437
Volume XIII
INCLUSIVE DATES:
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: ROOM:
DELETIONS, IF ANY: Third Agency Documents

DATE DATE PRINT NAME REVIEWING OFFICIAL: SIGNATURE OF
RECEIVED RETURNED REVIEWED BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL:
7 AUG 78 7 AUG 78 Leslie WIZELMAN

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

14-00000

SECRET

8 January 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Telephone Conversation with AMBIDDY-1
DATE: 7 January 1965, 2130 Hours

1. AMBIDDY-1 reported that Manolin Hernandez arrived
from Central America and reported that Vico Starke and
Frank Marshall, with the support of General Anastacio Somoza
of Nicaragua, were planning a coup against President Francisco
Orlich in Costa Rica. A-1 planned to depart Miami for Managua
at 0700 hours, 8 January on Lanica airline to check this infor-
mation with General Somoza and to attempt to ensure that his
equipment is not being used to carry out the coup. A-1 will
have his private communications pad and promised to send us a
message as soon as he talked with General Somoza and with the
Orlichs and Starke in Costa Rica.

2. A-1 agreed to try to return to New York on Saturday,
9 January, for a meeting with Mr. Archer (Chief, WH). A-1
will call as soon as he arrives in New York at which time
arrangements will be made to bring him to Washington for the
meeting.

3. A-1 reported he and Al Burt had signed a non-aggression
pact. A-1 feels there is little to gain from his point of view
in continuing the squabble with Burt.

File:
AMBIDDY-1 201
Tel Conversations
Costa Rica

Nester D. Sanchez
WH/SA/AMWORLD

SECRET
Included on temalle

14-00000

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE
SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT ARTIME, MANUEL
DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION 201-267437 019-300-003
#1 FILE N3. SEX M DOB 7 UFG -06142
3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. 4. DATE 27 JAN 65
7. SOURCE CRYPTOWYM. BATE OF INFO. EVALUATION
CIT CUBA P2
OCC ?
RE ALLEGATION BY ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO 201-
269349 OR MRR WAS WORKING DIRECTLY UNDER THE
ORDERS OF A COUNTERINTELL AGENCY OF US
AND THAT SUBJ WAS RESPONSIBLE FOR SINKING OF
SPANISH SHIP SIERRA ARANZAZU.

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.
FORM
847 PREVIOUS EDITIONS.
6502082325

SECRET

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFICATION
Jmwave
DC/WH/SA3
VR. FILE, DDP
ADVANCE COPY

Time
SECRET 132358Z
DESENSITIZED
PRIOR
DIR CITE WAVE 8261
TYPIC YOBITE AMWORLD
13 FEB 65 IN 80247
AMB1DDY-11
ANCLATTER/1 TOLD 13 FEB 65 BY FRANK FIORINI THAT MANUEL
ARTIME'S HOUSE AT 1270 NE 85TH STREET MIAMI WAS RANSACKED DURING
EVENING 12 FEB. ARTIME TOLD FIORINI THAT INTRUDERS HAD STOLEN
JEWELRY, NUMBER OF DOCUMENTS AND TELESCOPIC LENS RIFLE THAT FIORINI
HAD GIVEN ARTIME AS GIFT.

ARTIME ASKED FIORINI HELP HIM OUT BY GETTING IN TOUCH LOCAL
AUTHORITIES (UNSPECIFIED) WITH REQUEST THEY KEEP MATTER QUIET.
FIORINI SAID ARTIME DOES NOT WANT INCIDENT PUBLICIZED.

FOR SECURITY REASONS WAVE HAS MADE NO EFFORT OBTAIN
CONFIRMATION FROM LOCAL AUTHORITIES, HOWEVER, WAVE HAS RECEIVED NO
OTHER REPORT ON THIS MATTER AS OF PREPARATION THIS REPORT.

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET 1815092

DIR WAVE 6428 83422
TYPIC YOBITE AMWORLD
REF WAVE 8419 (IN83360)

IDEN JOSE ANTONIO MOLE ROSALES

SECRET

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
Jmwave
DC/WH/SA3
VR. FILE, DDP

SECRET 1815092
DIR CITE WAVE 8419
TYPIC YOBITE AMWORLD
REF: WAVE 8261 (IN 69644)

AMCLATTER/1 PROVIDED ADDITIONAL DETAILS REF 15 FEB 65 BY
STATING RANSACKING AMBIDDY/1'S HOUSE ACTUALLY OCCURRED SOME TIME
BETWEEN 1-3 FEB AND DISCOVERED BY MAID LUCY ACOSTA 3 FEB. FIORINI
HOWEVER LEARNED OF RANSACKING ABOUT 1330 HOURS 13 FEB WHEN RCVD
PHONE CALL FROM AMWORLD INTEL CHIEF (IDEN) WHO TOLD FIORINI THAT
ALTHO HOUSE BURGLARIZED 8 FEB HE DID NOTHING UNTIL FIRST SPEAKING
WITH AMBIDDY/1 WHO OUT TOWN. AMBIDDY-1 RECOMMENDED IDEN CONTACT
FIORINI WITH REQUEST FIORINI CONTACT LOCAL AUTHORITIES IF ABLE
DO SO WITHOUT PUBLICITY.
FIORINI, AFTER RECEIPT TELEPHONE CALL FROM IDEN CONTACTED
PERSONAL FRIEND FRANK CAMPBELL, FORMER CHIEF INTEL METRO, WHO
ADVISED FIORINI CONTACT POLICE CAPTAIN LEE NAPIR USING CAMPBELL'S
NAME. FIORINI, WHO ALSO KNOWN TO CAPTAIN NAPIR, CONTACTED NAPIR
WITH IDEN. NAPIR PROMISED MAKE INVESTIGATION WITHOUT MAKING
REPORT.

MTG 15 FEB IDEN SHOWED NAPIR 24 PHOTOGRAPHS DEPICTING
SECRET

14-00000

SECRET

BROKEN DOOR AND LARGE NUMBER DOCUMENTS SCATTERED OVER FLOOR.
IDEN
ALSO GAVE NAPIR FOLLOWING LIST MISSING ARTICLES: (A) ROLEX WRIST
WATCH; (B) ANOTHER INEXPENSIVE WRIST WATCH; (C) RING WITH FOUR TWO
CARAT DIAMONDS AND LARGE ZIRCON; (D) TWO EIGHTEEN CARAT GOLD NECK-
LACES; (E) ONE WOMAN'S IDENTIFICATION BRACELET, AND (F) ONE HIGH
POWERED 300 MAGNUM RIFLE WITH TELESCOPIC LENS AND TRIGGER GUARD
INSCRIBED "AMBIDDY/1, LEADER OF REVOLUTION, FRANK FIORINI."

ALTHO SOME DOCUMENTS TAKEN FROM A/1'S HOUSE IMPORTANT PAPERS KEPT
HOUSE SAFE WHICH NOT DISTURBED. IDEN WHO CONDUCTING OWN INVESTI-
GATION, TOLD NAPIR IDEN SUSPECTED HOUSE REPAIRMAN WHO RECENTLY
WORKED A/1'S HOUSE WALDO BADO PEREZ, 1285 NW 29TH STREET TERRACE,
MIAMI. BADO WHO HAS NO REGULAR MEANS INCOME RECENTLY BOUGHT WIFE
60 CORVAIR (65 FLORIDA LICENSE ID-4378) AND PAST WEEK MADE PERSONAL
GIFTS NUMBER FRIENDS. ALSO PURCHASED FOUR NEW TIRES HIS OWN 61
FALCON (65 FLORIDA LICENSE ID-4302).

NAPIR PROMISED IDEN WOULD HANDLE INVESTIGATION JEWELRY
IDEN ALSO LOCATED JEWELRY STORE 964 WEST FLAGLER STREET WITH
A/1'S ROLEX WRIST WATCH FOR SALE. IDEN HAD WIFE A/1 VISIT STORE D
AND PURCHASE ROLEX FOR $200 CASH PLUS $45 STILL OWED SALESMAN NAMED
GUILLERMO TABRAUE. WIFE A/1 ABLE IDENTIFY WATCH BY TWO MARKS BACK
WATCH. NAPIR PROMISED IDEN WOULD HANDLE INVESTIGATION JEWELRY
SECRET

14-00000

SECRET

STORE AND SUGGESTED IDEN PUT SURVEILLANCE CUBAN COFFEE SHOP
MIAMI EL GOZO.

5. AMCLATTER/1 SAID THAT IDEN HAS NO CURRENT INFO INDICATE
"ESPIONAGE" OR "REVOLUTIONARY MOTIVATION" BEHIND ROBBERY.

6. INSPECTOR (CAPTAIN) F. L. NAPIER ASSIGNED DETECTIVE BUREAU
MIAMI POLICE DEPARTMENT POSSIBLY IDENTICAL CAPT NAPIR PARA TWO
ABOVE. FRANK CAMPBELL PROBABLY IDENTICAL FRANK KAPPEL FORMER METRO
CHIEF INTEL WHO RESIGNED WORK WITH STATE RACING COMMISSION.

7. NO SPECIFIC WAVE TRACES WALDO BADO PEREZ ALTHO ONE
WALDO PEREZ REPORTED MAY 62 AS HAVING HELPED ORGANIZE PROPAGANDA
AND MILITARY PLANS LIBERATION CUBA IN CUBAN LIBERATION ARMY (UFG
9925 14 MAY 62). WAVE TRACES GUILLERMO TABRAUE INDICATE HE POSSIBLY
IDENTICAL GUILLERMO TABRAU NUECER (201-283992).

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET 2014002
DIR CITE SUOS 7493 807.22 184948
TYPIC YOBITE AMWORLD

MANUEL ARTIME BUESA ARRIVED SAN JOSE 17 FEBRUARY ON PAA FLIGHT
501 FROM MIAMI.

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET 2019272
DIR CITE WAVE 8522
TYPIC YOBITE AMWORLD

REFS WAVE 8521 (IN 85083)
IDEN JOSE ANTONIO MOLE ROSALES

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

DIR CITE WAVE 8521
TYPIC YOBITE AMWORLD
REFS: A. WAVE 8261 (IN 69644)
B. WAVE 8419 (IN 86077)
C. WAVE 8420 (IN 83422)

1. AMCLATTER/1, AS FOLLOW UP REFS, REPORTED 19 FEB 65 THAT
MIAMI POLICE CAPTAIN NAPIR PHONED FIORINI 18 FEB AND ARRANGED FOR
FIORINI AND AMWORLD INTEL CHIEF (IDEN) MEET WITH TWO POLICE
SERGEANTS FORM POLICE HEADQUARTERS AT 1145 NW 11TH STREET MIAMI.
MTG HELD FROM 1330 TO 1430 HOURS 18 FEB MAYFLOWER RESTAURANT NORTH
MIAMI AVENUE AND 36TH STREET WITH SERGEANTS (FNU) DOWDA AND (FNU) MCCRACKEN
OF POLICE BURGLARY SQUAD. BOTH SERGEANTS SAID NAPIR INSTRUCTED THEM
EACH TO "KEEP CASE OFF REPORT". IDEN TOLD SERGEANTS THAT AFTER CAREFUL
CONSIDERATION HE AND AMWORLD BOTH CONCLUDE ROBBERY WAS "G-2
SPONSORED". POINTED UP FACT $500 LEICA CAMERA AND TWO $300 TAPE
RECORDERS VISIBLY ACCESSIBLE NOT TOUCHED. ALSO SUSPECT SOME DOCUMENTS
PHOTOGRAPHED. SURMISE INTRUDERS WANTED GIVE OUTWARD APPEARANCE ROBBERY.
2. FIORINI SAID ADDITIONAL INFO ON SUSPECT WALDO BADO PEREZ
INDICATE HE FORMER BRIGADE MEMBER. POLICE SEBORANTE AND

14-00000

COULD HAVE CASED HOUSE FOR SOMEONE ELSE.

3. ACCORDING FIORINI NAPIR INSTRUCTED IDEN GIVE COMPLETE
DETAILS IN WRITING OF STOLEN RIFLE AND MAIL REPORT TO HIM.
NAPIR VAITS REPORT POSTMARKED AND ALLEGEDLY WOULD DISCLOSE
CONTESTS ONLY TO CLEAR AMWORLD ANY COMPLICITY OR RESPONSIBILITY
EVENT RIFLE USED BY UNKNOWN PARTY SOME FUTURE CRIME.

SECRET

14-00000

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

SECRET 1815202
PACY SUOS CITE CARA 6883 2200885926
TYPIC AMWORLD YOBITE
MANUEL ARTIME AND RAFAEL QUINTERO ARRIVED CARA FROM PACY 26
FEB PAA 513. PLANS REMAIN CARA UN 24 OR 25 FEB WHEREUPON
WILL DEPART FOR COSTA RICA.

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

14-00000

1. On the night of 8 March 1968, the case officer for
Manuel ARTIME Buesa met with him and outlined the policy
decision reached by the 303 Committee on 4 March. ARTIME
was told the decision was to terminate our operational
relationship in as friendly and cooperative manner as
possible, but not later than 1 May 1965. The case officer
had been empowered to convey this information and to con-
duct an exploratory discussion of the problems and possible
solutions connected with a phase-out program. The two
main points the United States Government was concerned
with were (a) fair but reasonable demobilization support
to the personnel of the autonomous group; and (b) ARTIME's
assistance in insuring that the balance of power in Central
America was not upset, particularly by preventing the
weapons of his group from falling into the hands of
political extremists or free-booters.

2. ARTIME had been on notice for several months that
a phase-out might be ordered at any time, and had an inkling
that the decision had been made because his regular monthly
subsidy had not been received on schedule. He had obviously
given the matter considerable thought and made up his mind
as to his course of action when he arrived at the meeting.
He began the discussion by summarizing the things he might
have done had he been so inclined. Among the possibilities
mentioned, he included loading up his troops and weapons
and taking over Haiti as a base against Cuba, intervening
in Costa Rica to bring down the liberal PLN administration
in favor of a rightist junta of dissidents, or throwing in
completely with General Anastasio Somoza in Nicaragua the
weapons, personnel and equipment of the autonomous group.
He has the capability of fielding an infantry battalion
reinforced with artillery (4.2 mortars), supported by air
and maritime elements, with a cadre of trained and combat-
experienced Cubans, provided he teams up with an organization

14-00000

who can furnish about 1,000 men to flesh out the unit.
Case officer acknowledged that we recognized his potential
for harmful action, had considered it thoroughly, and
hoped he would not do anything of the kind. ARTIME said
he had also considered all the possibilities and concluded
there was no point in his being childish and trying to
"bite us about the ankles."

3. ARTIME accepts the decision and will cooperate
in a phase-out program. He does not understand the
rationale, and, of course, does not agree with the
decision, but he acknowledges our prerogative to make it.
If we really wish still to be friends, he is willing,
Just as he told Mr. FitzGerald originally. He asks only
that we help him make it possible to remain friendly and
makes two requests from us: (a) help take care of his men
and their families until they can rehabilitate and
resettle themselves, and (b) do everything possible to
get his parents out of Cuba.

4. The major elements to be considered in a phase-
out were discussed with the following results:

a. Personnel. The first priority is support
payments to dependents which were due 1 March in
the total amount of $100,00. This must be done
soonest if ARTIME is to maintain control of the
situation. The next most immediate problem is
re-entry permission for fifteen of his men who have
been stranded in Nicaragua trying to return to the
United States since December. These men were ex-
filtrated "black" from the United States with our
assistance and require special authority for
re-entry from Department of State and Department of
Justice, which we thought was arranged in early
January.

The demobilization plan proposed by ARTIME
seemed as realistic and effective as could be hoped
for. He proposes to return the bulk of his men,
approximately 200, to the United States during March
and give them one month's pay on 1 April as a mustering
out payment to support them and their families while
they seek other employment. The balance of his men,
less than 100, will be held in Central America for
one month longer as a security and administrative
force muster the group's equipment at Monkey Point
from which disposition can be made during the month

14-00000

of April. The security force will be returned
during April and will be paid a mustering out pay-
ment on 1 May. This will terminate the project.

The cover story which ARTIME intends to use
for demobilization is to inform his men that their
mothership is out of commission and will require about
six weeks for repairs. This is true enough so that
it will be believed. He will then grant leave to all
men with dependents to get their personal affairs in
order before operations commence again. He will
publicize the fact that it is less expensive and
better for morale to send them on leave than to have
men sitting around the camps with no operations to
run. When all the first contingent are back home,
individual notice will be given each to start looking
for other work as operations have been postponed.
They will be told that the salary payment of 1 April
will be the last one and should be considered as a
mustering out bonus. ARTIME feels this method will
soften the impact and lower the noise level as the
men will be home with their families and scattered
throughout the community instead of being in an
organized group in Central America when they realize
they are being demobilized.

b. Funds. ARTIME had done his homework and
brought with him facts and figures upon which phase-
out costs could be estimated. These cost estimates
are outlined below:

1 March - $100,000 Dependents support and
salaries
$ 85,000 Travel from Central America
to U.S. for approx. 200 men
$ 50,000 Accrued debts due 1 March,
mainly food and other expenses
for camps in Central America
$175,000 (In lieu of regular monthly
subsidy of $225,000)
1 April - $100,000 Mustering out payment for
200 men and salaries for
security and administrative
details
$ 12,500 Travel from Central America
to U.S. for approx. 100 men.
$ 13,500 Estimated food and other camp
expenses

14-00000

1 May - $ 50,000 Mustering out payments for
approx. 100 men and final
contractual obligations of
project

c. Weapons. ARTIME agreed that it would be in
nobody's interest for his weapons to fall into the wrong
hands. He was asked for ideas on disposition of the
arms and came up with the following suggestion which
appears to be an excellent one. The mothership, MV
SANTA MARIA, is in need of repairs and must go into a
shipyard. Tentative arrangements have been made to
put her in the yards at Galveston, Texas, some time
in March or April. ARTIME can order his security detail
to store the arms aboard the ship for "security" reasons
before she leaves for the yard. They will simply re-
main on board when the ship leaves and we can take
control of the ship and the weapons from that point on.

d. Maritime.
(1) MV SANTA MARIA. See above. The ship
would be sailed from Monkey Point with a contract
crew supplied by Chester, Blackburn, & Roder, Inc.
of New York, who are agents for the ship's owner,
Libernic Corporation, a CIA proprietary company.
One of ARTIME's senior officers would accompany
the ship as his representative, with orders to
turn over control of it and the arms upon its
arrival at Galveston. CIA officers, possibly
documented as Customs officials, would accept
custody and Office of Logistics could recover the
weapons and any other equipment which might be
shipped by this method. The ship would then be
disposed of according to Headquarters wishes at
any time after 17 April when the charter arrange-
ment with General SOMOZA expires and the ship
legally reverts to control of the owner.

(2) Swifts, V-20's, Boston Whalers, rubber
beats and other operational craft are all owned,
technically, by ARTIME's group. He has had title
to the Swifts legally transferred from a Costa
Rican politician to one of his own senior officers.
He wants to retain these craft for the time being,
hoping against hope that lightning will strike and
he may, after all, be able to use them in the next

14-00000

-5-
two months. Case officer recommends we go along
with him on this at least for the time being, as
it could be sticky legally and might antagonize
him at the time when we most need his cooperation.
In the end, he should be reasonable about disposi-
tion of these craft if we shoot square with him
in the meantime.

(3) Support craft, LCMs, Barges, etc. Dispo-
sition arrangements to be worked out together on
these craft.

e. Aircraft.
(1) DC-3. ARTIME is willing to release the
aircraft back to its "owners," TASA, a CIA pro-
prietary company in Panama. However, one month's
charter payment of $1,250 was due 1 March, and
another will be due by the time the aircraft can
be returned. ARTIME was reluctant to let the plane
go back without payment, but also reluctant to
squeeze the $2,500 out of his budget. Case officer
voiced his opinion that the owner would probably
be glad to get the plane back and would not likely
think it worth going to court. However, in view
of the fact that it would be a "closed-circuit"
transaction and would actually cost the Government
nothing, it is recommended that a special authoriza-
tion of $2,500 be channeled to ARTIME for payment
in order to maintain ARTIME's reputation for fiscal
probity. He will surely appreciate this gesture.

(2) L-20 Beaver and Cessna-180. These
aircraft technically belong to ARTIME's group and
recovery would be a sticky matter, legally.
ARTIME hopes to hold control of these aircraft
for the time being, and it is recommended that
we go along with him, saving disposition arrange-
ments until later.
5. ARTIME again emphasized at the close of the meeting
that he must have soonest the March payments for families
as an absolute minimum, before he could face his people and
maintain control of them in order to insure an orderly phase-
out program.

Carl E. Jenkins
WH/C/CA/EA

14-00000

20 March 1965

SUBJECT: Chief, WH remarks on Termination of AMWORLD.

1. At a meeting with DCWH/C and Mr. Jenkins on
16 March, Chief, WH expressed general satisfaction with
the status of termination of AMWORLD and the plans
therefor. He stated specifically that he was pleased
with the cooperation of AMBIDDY-1 and AMJAVA-4 and would
make it a point to inform higher levels in the Agency and
the U. S. Government and put a good word for them on the
record. He also directed that they be told:

a. He personally appreciates their cooperation
and the good sense, goodwill and maturity they
displayed in accepting and executing the U. S.
Government decision to terminate their operations.

b. He wants to meet with them personally, at
the earliest mutually convenient time, in order to
discuss the situation with them.

c. After termination of the paramilitary project
is completed, he has some other ideas for ventures of
mutual interest which he wishes to pursue with them.

2. The gist of the above points had been passed to
AMBIDDY-1 and AMJAVA-4 previously by Mr. Jenkins, and on
the night of 18 March he confirmed by telephone to AMJAVA-4
that Chief, WH had expressed the above sentiments.

File:
AMBIDDY-1 201
AMJAVA-4 201
Policy
Carl B. Jenkins
WH/C/CA/EA

SECRET
GROUP 1

14-00000

DISPATCH

PRIORITY

1. Reference cable raises a number of fundamental issues of concern to Caracas
In brief, we do not welcome an activation of the movement's center
in Caracas, an event which would greatly complicate our operational situation.
We have reasons for believing that the host government likewise would probably
be embarrassed if AMBIDDY 1 chose Venezuela as a base for whatever program he
is planning to undertake. Repeated failures of his attempts at being received
by President LEONI are significant in this context.

2. Since we must assume that AMBIDDY 1 has alluded to his close ties with
KUBARK (and more specifically with BECKROFF), the Venezuelan security services
may well jump to the conclusion that AMWORLD is in fact a KUBARK operation and
sooner or later we would be forced to disavow AMBIDDY 1, a circumstance of
which he would be bound to learn with consequent embitterment. All these
predictable developments, Caracas is most anxious to forestall. Needless to
say, both BECKROFF and ONTRICH are unhappy about this situation of conflict
since it involves a man whom we both admire and who (in their opinion) has served
KUBARK loyally, at times to the detriment of his abiding cause to
liberate PBRUMEN.

3. For the above reasons, we would welcome indeed if formal and
institutional ties between AMBIDDY 1 and AMJAVA 4 could be put in abeyance,
at least to the extent that AMBIDDY 1 be prevailed upon to pass up Venezuela as
a base of operations. This discriminatory approach reflects our awareness that

14-00000

4. We do not believe that Station could help but intercede with Liaison
services, were AMBIDDY 1 to insist on the move, which we predict that they would
greatly complicate our operational situation. We can further predict that the entire
Venezuelan Government (unless it be secretly acting at KUBARK's instigation) may view an active AMWORLD 1
presence with disfavor and will be under ever-greater pressure to step on
the Government to curtail or suppress the movement.

5. We realize that the Station's position, as set forth above, saddles
Headquarters with an exceedingly delicate task. While as a last resort we
could of course drop discreet hints to our Venezuelan liaison contacts
suggesting the inadvisability of affording AMBIDDY 1 and his associates
sanctuary in Venezuela, we would only entertain that distasteful prospect as
a last resort and with the full approval of Headquarters.

6. Another approach, only slightly less unsatisfactory, would be to
restrict AMBIDDY 1's radius of activity to an extent tantamount to denying
him all freedom of political action while in Venezuela. But all in all, it
would probably be best for KUBARK if AMBIDDY 1 could be dissuaded from going
through with his proposed move in a manner which does not hurt his pride and
which does not alienate him from KUBARK. Headquarters may be able to suggest
palatable alternatives to Venezuela.

7. As regards AMJAVA 4, we share some of Headquarters misgivings about
surfacing him to Liaison. What prompted us to suggest this approach was a
desire to overcome the difficulties which would be facing AMJAVA 4 in any
case should he decide to make his home here. We are inclined to doubt that
he could obtain permission to enter Venezuela in immigrant status without
powerful intercession. He would be used by the Station on projects which
we (and presumably the host government) view as compatible with Venezuela's
national security interests.

8. Some of the doubts raised by Headquarters are altogether valid and
were considered before we made our proposal. We are least concerned, however,
the issues of dual loyalty and dual control etc, because it happens to be one of
our objectives in building a more durable relationship with liaison, esp DIGEPOL,
to entice them into joint ventures where dual control does exist. We find AMJAVA 4
temperamentally suited (esp since his basic loyalty belongs to KUBARK) to serve
as an operational link between Station and liaison, without acting to the
detriment of either. Although the tenor of our relationship with DIGEPOL has
undergone a notable improvement, there are still deep-rooted reservations and
suspicions which a man of AMJAVA 4's personality traits might help to dispel.

9. With regards to the substance of our operations against PBRUMEN,
especially those which are CB-oriented, there is a natural congruity of interests
between ODYOKE and Venezuela which renders joint pursuits in fact most desirable.
More likely than not, DIGEPOL will do Station the favor of facilitating the
admission of AMJAVA 4 and of providing him with viable cover, maybe including
official (DIGEPOL) documentation, and let it go at that. We rather doubt that
unless prodded by Station DIGEPOL would avail itself of AMJAVA 4's services, let
alone use him to penetrate Station's operational program. This leaves in
balance the pros and cons of surfacing a valuable KUBARK asset to liaison.

10. The general concepts guiding Caracas Station in desiring to surface
one of AMJAVA 4 were spelled out in UFGA-18059.

11. In presenting Station's proposal to AMJAVA 4, the
following points could be made:
a. We do not propose that he sever his longstanding personal and
political links with AMBIDDY 1.

b. We do not expect that he disconnect his links with the MRR
let alone cease supporting its program.

14-00000

c. We will not expect AMJAVA 4 to raise himself to the
status of a Venezuelan citizen.

d. We must insist that he treat any Liaison personnel paired in
operational adjunct to Station as privileged in that he will be at liberty to
use it to a maximum.

e. This information would have to be withheld from AMBIDDY 1 and
other members of the movement.

12. AMJAVA 4 will have to make a clear choice between serving the
cause of PBRUMEN Liberation by actively associating himself with
MADRID (a doomed undertaking if our reading of the situation is
correct), or by countering PBRUMEN's program to subvert Venezuela
under Station control.

14-00000

2.a AWAIA/2, told me that A/2 went to Spain on 15 day for 2 or 3 months
vacation. A/4 said later that A/2 was starting a new business in Spain
and wanted his (A/1) to move over there and age it for him. A/2 left
William fine, the ice-President in charge of maritima Sam in his absence.
AMBIDDY/1 has always had ultimate control of the AWARD finds and has
simply been exercising closer personal control of them siree 1/2 is gone.

2.b AMBIDOT/1 told me that he is selling off some of the ecuipment which is not
suitable for his current program of Community Development/Divic Action in
Latin America in order to raise money to obtain equipment and raterials
that will be needed. For male, he has bought 22 acres of farm land near
West Palm Beach to establish a model farm for training purposes. He has
been conducting evening classes for several weeks for about 20 FRR men, who
are working full time at other jobs, in rural Community Development. He
has gotten some training materials and advice from reorge Lodge of
Harvard, who, according to letters from hir, appears to be enthusiastic
about his contact with A/1 and his organization.

2.c A/1 says his only political plans at this time are to try to continue holding
his movement (MRI) together while he charges its emphasis and direction
toward the constructive activity of help in Community Development for
friendly Latin American countries and away from the Pr. emphasis for which
we supported him in the ANWORLD program. The farm in Nicaragua to cultivate
rice is a planned cooperative on the east coast (Bluefields - Monkey Point)
to complement a shrimp fishing cooperative and boat yard at Bluefields
which he has already discussed with President Schick, who requested him to
go ahead. A/1 and the NRR part in these enterprises is purely advisory in
training local residents and helping them to organize and build facilities.
1/4 reports, and A/1 himself admits, that he is simply feeling around now
trying to get all the information and ideas he can about this new field of
endeavor. (For example, A/1 just bought 300 baby chicks to work with in
order to find out they can best fit into a rural develoment program.).

2.d. Of course, AMWORLD is finished and all members of the organization know it.
A/1 and 1/4 have both told me they have made it clear to all hands and have
advised them to get jobs immediately in order to support their dependents.
Most of them have done so, several going back to work for WAVE, for instance.

The death of AMWORLD and the reorganization necessary to go into a new
phase (Community Development) is no doubt causing a crisis in the MRR, but
both leaders believe the movement will weather the crisis and survive. Mr.
Tom Clines, who talked with other members of the NPR, believes the same
thing, and is certain it will survive with enough support from Washington
to pay for publicity, travel, and administrative costs.

3.a There are 5 men at Monkey Point where one cache (a platoon) of weapons is
stored. The other two are located at Bluefields and at Managua, under
control of the Nicaraguan National Guard. The HRR delegate at Managua is
the only person who can authorize their release, and this must be on
written authority of A/1 and approved by General Somoza. The 5 men at
Monkey Point are simply station-keepers who, in addition to guarding the
camp and weapons, are teaching the local Indians to read and write, to
operate and maintain basic machinery, and to plant crops to raise their
standard of living. Tare has been no evidence from any source of ary
attempts to sell WORLD arms ammunition.

14-00000

3.c It is not clear what this source is trying to report, but presumably he is
trying to indicate that A/1 is hoarding the AM A-NLD money he has been
issued for his personal use. Anyone who knows A/1 knows that the last
thing he will ever give up is his magazine and radio broadcasts. The
ability to make speeches and have them printed and see his picture
reproduced is the top requirement in his makeup. The next most impor-
tart requirement is the capability to travel and hob-nob with Heads of
State and other Authorities, which he excels. These two attributes are
of considerable to, as witness the fact that br. Fitzgerald
has insisted on