14-00000
104-10172-10041

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

NOTE: In the absence of comments or indication of action taken, this cover sheet will be destroyed when the document is filed.

RID/

COMMENTS

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.

OFFICERS:
ALEG
WH/THI/cal/RA
Carib/Fl
LED

Vivian Cessary
WH/COG/PP
RID/AN
RID/FY

DATE RECEIVED:
195
28
18 MAR 1970

INITIALS:

Chronar

DATE:
January 1959

DOCUMENT NUMBER:
HKH-02130

FILE NUMBER:
6-0-120

SECURITY CLASSIFICATION:
SECRET

ENCLOSURE

DATE MICROFILMED

ABSTRACT

INDEX

FORM 4-60
USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

OPERATIONAL AND SOURCE COVER SHEET

FROM: Habana
REPORT MADE BY: Nelson L. Raynock/pra
REPORT APPROVED BY: Woodrow C. Olien
DATE OF REPORT: 21 August 1959
DISTRIBUTION:
By copy for:
1 - Headquarters w/est
1 - Embassy (Economic Counselor)
Orally to:
1 - Legal Attaché
2 - Files - Field File No. 6-0-120
SOURCE CRYPTONYM: See Comments below
SOURCE, OPERATIONAL DATA, AND COMMENTS:

SUBJECT: Cuban Economic Crisis

OPERATIONAL COMMENTS:

REPORT NO.: ERR-2130
NUMBER PAGES: 2
NUMBER ENCLOSURES: None
REFERENCES: None

KRYPTON: ☐ Yes ☐ No.

[Source Alberto FERNANDEZ Hechavarria] The chief of the Cuban Sugar Stabilization Board who has the job of selling Cuba's sugar. A former active member of the 26 of July Movement during the revolution, he is now disillusioned, and reportedly is not going to last much longer in his job. He is wealthy and his family have lost through CASTRO's economic reforms. He appears to know a lot about the government and also seems to have an insight into CASTRO. He regards CASTRO as some type of a UNIVAC machine, his mind automatically photostating details which he can and will use in the future. He says that CASTRO is ruthless, and that nothing can stop him in his determination to do something, i.e., agrarian reform, and that he will sacrifice his friends, his family, his money, and his fortune to accomplish his purpose.

Again illustrating the present situation in Cuba, the source said that he cannot publicly have contacts with American officials—refusing to let the writer use his telephone—and he said that a record is kept of all his calls and that his movements are periodically checked.

The advisor who warned CASTRO in paragraph one of the attached report was the source.

As a possible reference to this report and particularly to field comment number two, see HAVA-2526. TDCS-3/411,583

The second source referred to in Field Comment No. 2 was AMPACK-1 who obtained his information from the President of the Banco Industrial de Cuba.

FORM APR 1951-59
PREVIOUS EDITIONS MAY BE USED
CS COPY
HKY-2130
201-251853

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

EVALUATION OF SOURCE: A. Completely reliable B. Usually reliable C. Fairly reliable D. Not reliable E. Unreliable (Applies to sources of doubtful authenticity or loyalty, regardless of their competence). F. Cannot be judged. G. Documentary. Based on original document. H. Untested source.

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT: 1. Confirmed by other independent and reliable sources 2. Probably true. 3. Possibly true 4. Doubtful 5. Improbable 6. Cannot be judged.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

COUNTRY: Cuba
SUBJECT: Cuban Economic Crisis
DATE OF INFO.: July-August 1959
PLACE & DATE ACQ.: Cuba, Habana (20 August 1959)

REPORT NO.: HRA-2130
DATE OF REPORT: 21 August 1959
NO. OF PAGES: 2
REFERENCES: None

SOURCE EVALUATIONS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE. NOTE FOREGOING EXPLANATION.

SOURCE: Cuban Government official (F).
Appraisal of Content: 3

1. Contrary to the reports which are issued by the Cuban Government, the financial status of the Cuban economy is rapidly deteriorating and becoming a serious problem. During July 1959 an advisor to Prime Minister Fidel CASTRO Ruz warned him to proceed more slowly with the agrarian reform, because the Cuban treasury was running short of funds. It was pointed out that 57 sugar mills were bankrupt and had not paid the plantation owners for the 1959 sugar crop. CASTRO was told that if the reckless confiscation of agricultural properties continued, the Cuban Government would become obligated to assume even more debts in order to alleviate the hunger of farm workers.

2. Another drain on the economy is government subsidies. For example, the Banco de Desarrollo Economico y Social (BANDES, Social and Economic Development Bank) controls about U. S. $400 million in properties and investments such as the Compañia Cubana de Aviacion (Cuban Airline Company). The companies have been caught in the present contraction of capital and cannot survive without government subsidies. The subsidies paid by BANDES amount to U. S. $8 million a month, and this is only one example of the many payments which are draining the Cuban treasury.

Field Comments.

1. From the reports which have been received it appears that there is growing unemployment of farm workers. This is the "dead season"—the period between sugar cane harvests—but it is reported that most plantation owners and ranchers are fearful of confiscation of their properties for the agrarian-reform program and consequently are doing very little in the way of maintenance work. The latter provided at least a marginal field of employment, and this is now denied to the agricultural workers. However, in spite of this warning, the agrarian-reform program has not been slowed. In fact, it seems to have been intensified.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

DISTRIBUTION

201-251853

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000

2. The source thought that nothing could stop CASTRO in his determination to proceed with the agrarian reform program as fast as possible. Since the biggest obstacle to carrying out this program is the lack of money, the source was of the opinion that CASTRO would do anything to obtain this money and might even confiscate bank accounts and moneys and negotiable instruments held in safety deposit boxes. Carrying this one step further, the source thought such confiscatory tactics could only be a temporary saving device and that eventually it would be necessary for CASTRO to obtain a large loan from another country. He speculated that this would mean either the United States or the Soviet Union, and feared that if it were the latter, it would mean the end of friendly relations with the United States. In respect to CASTRO's possible need for a loan, another, fairly reliable, source reported on 18 August 1959 that CASTRO was trying to obtain a 30,000,000-peso loan from local banks.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

201-251853
