104-10185-10110 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 | 14-00000

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Law, 18 U.S.C. Sec. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY: Cuba
SUBJECT: Julian NOVAS Fernandez
DATE OF INFO: 1964
REPORT NO. CSCI-316/00699-64
DATE DISTR: 27 August 1964
NO. PAGES: 2
REFERENCES: RETURN TO CIA Background Use Only Do Not Reproduce

PLACE & DATE ACQ: Washington, D. C., August 1964
FIELD REPORT NO.:
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality information provided by the source and includes supplemental information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without first checking with this Agency.

Source was shown a photograph of Julian NOVAS Fernandez and source identified him as a Cuban intelligence Officer. Source saw NOVAS at the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City, March 1964 and assumed he was a functionary there.

Headquarters Comments

1. Although source saw Julian NOVAS Fernandez at the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City in March 1964, the records of this Agency reveal that source was probably in error in assuming that NOVAS was assigned to that Embassy and it is more likely that he was just passing through.
2. The following traces by this Agency is the basis for this conclusion.
An official Jamaican source, in a report dated 24 March 1964, stated that Julian NOVAS Fernandez arrived in Kingston, Jamaica, on 18 March 1964, to take up his duties at the Cuban Consulate in Kingston as Commercial Attache. Source said that NOVAS has the appearance of an American and speaks excellent English. Since his arrival he has been especially occupied with girls. It should be noted that

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification

STATE
NAVY
AIR
NSA
FBI
CINCLANT
CINCSO # I&NS

REPORT CLASS
CI/LIA
COORDINATING RE:
PROJECT (AMNUG/1)
EX-1645
CSCI-316/00399-64

Note: Field distribution indicated by "#"

APRJAY
DIA
REP
NTORWA
/SA/EOP
/SA/MOB WE/ADR
E/SA/R
CI/REA
HRIDAIN
LIAISON
R/SA 7 (1), FE 1 (2), CI 4, RID 1
201-747936
16 MAR 1965
RELCASID
MAIK:LD:swk
[01/ses

14-00000

3. His wife did not accompany him and source speculated that her arrival may be delayed in view of NOVAS' present inclination for feminine diversion.
4. In a report dated March 1964, this same source said that Julian NOVAS Fernandez, the Cuban Commercial Attache at the Cuban Consulate in Kingston, Jamaica, was born on 2 September 1938 in Habana, Cuba. He carried diplomatic passport D/641/5 which was issued in Habana on 20 February 1964. His home address was given as Carman No. 18, Vibora. He arrived in Kingston from Mexico on 18 March 1964, on Mexicana Flight Number 305.
5. This same source, in a report dated 28 April 1964, stated that the wife of Julian NOVAS Fernandez, the recently arrived Cuban Commercial Attache, arrived in Kingston on 22 April 1964, via Mexico. Her name is Amarilis Karta VALDES Hijuelos and she was born on 19 May 1937, in Jiquani, Oriente, Cuba. VALDES has been indisposed since her arrival in Kingston; this is probably due to her advanced pregnancy. Her home address in Cuba is Avenida 31, Number 3622, Habana. She carried diplomatic passport D/61/239, issued in Habana on 9 April 1964.
6. This same source, in a report dated 9 May 1964, noted that the salary and allowances of the new Cuban Commercial Attache Julian NOVAS Fernandez, suggests that he is the new Cuban Intelligence Service chief in Jamaica, succeeding Gerardo SANCHEZ Robert.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
