Okay, I have reviewed the OCR outputs from Tesseract and Google Vision, and have created a combined and cleaned version below.

```markdown
104-10291-10022 [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

SECRET

(File Title)
CIA/DDO-HOUSE COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS RECORDS
CIA PERSONNEL FILES
(RECORD NAME)
REEL NO. 58
ENDS WITH KENT,
WILLIAM M.
FILE
CUSTODIAN
DATE
26 AUG. 1980
FILMED

SECRET

TEST TARGET (MT-2)

SIZE
POINT
12.2
2.0
2.2
2.0
12x
16x
20
00
Z351g Hq47; Sulxi Y5a50
33q7n E1t9g
9ss9d Llcdg
SIZE
POINT
Mq47) Wipe A7o7a Ge92
22
2.2
20
20x
24x
28x
30x
KP7½ Rho91 Umkh¶ Eeafd 10 VILNU MZHSF XMBBO HWEKH
C6Jfm Zm79a 3s431 iskry 126FRKM EB7AU FUDWM BOONF
Oz7h9 B5elP Wo8nk 8tizx14C9E83 B18AJ Z7QYI OKJDQ
POINT
SERIF (BASKERVILLE) SIZE SANS SERIF (MICROFONT)
SHOULD MEASURE .25” AT REDUCTION
Science
Photographic
23 WEST MAIN STREET.

CONFIDENTIAL
SECURITY INFORMATION

SECURITY APPROVAL
Date: 6 Dec. 1951
TO: Chief, Covert Personnel Division Your Reference: L-2960
FROM: Chief, Security Division Case Number: 5751b
SUBJECT: KENT, William Morris

1. This is to advise you of security action in the subject case as indicated
below:

[X] Security approval is granted the subject person for access to classified
information.

2. Provisional clearance for full duty with CIA is granted under the provisions
of Paragraph D of Regulation 10-9 which provides for a temporary appoint-
ment pending completion of full security investigation.

The Director of Central Intelligence has granted a provisional clearance
for full duty with CIA under the provisions of Paragraph H of Regulation
10-9.

Unless the subject person enters on duty within 60 days from the above
date, this approval becomes invalid.

3. Subject is to be polygraphed as part of the EOD procedures.
Bldg. 13 9:00
3 Jan 52
Dickmayer not 12/10
BROADLEY,

SECRET

SECRET
UNIT INFORMATION
TO: Chief, Communications DATE: 11 June 1952
FROM: Chief, Security Division
SUBJECT: KENT, William Morris STSK
In reply to your memorandum this is to advise that Subject
meets the current requirements for cryptographic clearance and is
approved for such duties as of this date.
CuBully
BROADLEY

SECRET
SECURITY INFORMATION
28 MAY 1952
TO: Chief, Personnel Division (Covert)
ATTENTION: Transactions and Records Branch
FROM: Chief, Security Division
SUBJECT: (Pseudo)
#5751b OLIVER H. CORBUSTON

1. Reference is made to your memorandum, dated 14 May 1952, in
which a covert security clearance was requested to enable the WH Division
to utilise the Subject's services as an Intelligence Officer (Staff Agent),
in Fort Amador, Canal Zone. Reference memorandum indicated that Subject
will be used on Project HYPOTHESIS, under military cover.

2. In accordance with the provisions set forth in the Director's
Memorandum of 14 February 1949, entitled "Security and Operational
Clearances", a covert security clearance is granted for the covert use
of the Subject as described in your request as set forth in Paragraph 1
above.

3. The Subject is not to represent himself as, nor is he to be
represented as, an employee of CIA.

4. Your attention is called to the fact that a covert security
clearance does not constitute complete compliance with the provisions
of CIA Regulation 10-9. Therefore, if you should desire at a later
date to change the status or use of this individual, a request for
clearance to cover any proposed change should be submitted to this
office.

5. This clearance becomes invalid in the event the Subject's
services are not utilized within 60 days of the date of this memo-
randum.

FOR THE SECURITY OFFICER, CIA
ROBERT H. CUNNINGHAM

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL
SECURITY INFORMATION
SECURITY APPROVAL
Date: 21 September 1955
TO: Chief, Records & Services Division Your Reference: C-1932 WH
Personnel Office
FROM: Chief, Security Division Case Number: 57514
Personnel
SUBJECT: KENT, William Morris

1. This is to advise you of security action in the subject case as indicated
below:

[X] Security approval is granted the subject person for access to classified
information.

2. Provisional clearance for full duty with CIA is granted under the provisions
of Paragraph D of Regulation 10-9 which provides for a temporary appoint-
ment pending completion of full security investigation.

The Director of Central Intelligence has granted a provisional clearance
for full duty with CIA under the provisions of paragraph H of Regulation
10-9

2. Unless the subject person enters on duty within 60 days from the above
date, this approval becomes invalid.

3. Subject is to be polygraphed as part of ED procedures.
Ermal P. Geiss

CONFIDENTIAL

FORM NO. 38-101
FEB 1952

CONFIDENTIAL
SECURITY INFORMATION
SECURITY APPROVAL
Date: 2 October 1956
TO: Chief, Records & Services Division Your Reference: C-6163 WH
Personnel Office
FROM: Chief, Security Division Case Number: 57514
Personnel
SUBJECT: KENT, William Morris

1. This is to advise you of security action in the subject case as indicated
below:

[X] Security approval is granted the subject person for access to classified
information.

[ ] Provisional clearance for full duty with CIA is granted under the provisions
of Paragraph D of Regulation 10-9 which provides for a temporary appoint-
ment pending completion of full security investigation.

[ ] The Director of Central Intelligence has granted a provisional clearance
for full duty with CIA under the provisions of paragraph H of Regulation
10-9.

2. Unless the subject person enters on duty within 60 days from the above
date, this approval becomes invalid.

Joe Kaye advised 10/5/56

W. M. Knott

CONFIDENTIAL
FORM NO. 38-101
FEB 1952

CONFIDENTIAL
(When Filled In)
STAFF AGENT CLEARANCE
DATE: 30 June 1966
YOUR REFERENCE: 42055
CASE NO.: 57514
TO: Chief, Contract Personnel Division
ATTN.: Staff Agents Branch
SUBJECT: Kent, William M.

1. This is to advise that a security clearance is granted for the employ-
ment of the Subject as
GS-13 as Ops Officer by DDP/WH/JMPOPLAR at
New Orleans, La.

2. If your office should desire at a later date to change the status or
use of the Subject, a request to cover any proposed change should be submitted
to this office.

3. Unless arrangements are made within 60 days for entrance on duty within
120 days, this Approval becomes invalid.

4. As a part of entrance on duty processing:
[ ] A personal interview in the Office of Security must be arranged by
your office.
[X] A personal interview is not necessary.

Steven L. Kuhn
CHIEF, PERSONNEL SECURITY DIVISION

CONFIDENTIAL

CONFIDENTIAL
(When Filled In)
SECURITY APPROVAL
DATE: 11 February 1970
YOUR REFERENCE: Request #73407
DDP/WH
CASE NO.: 57514
TO: Director of Personnel
ATTN: SA Branch/CPD
SUBJECT: KENT, William Morris

1. This is to inform you that Subject has been approved for the
appointment specified in your request under the provisions of
Headquarters Regulations 10-3 and 20-5 including access to
classified information through TOP SECRET as required in the
performance of duties.

2. Unless arrangements are made for entrance on duty within 150 days,
this approval becomes invalid.

3. As part of the entrance on duty processing:
[ ] A personal interview in the Office of Security must be arranged.
[X] A personal interview is not necessary.
[ ] Please advise Chief, Clearance Branch, extension 5620
when Subject enters on duty.

Conversion from Staff Agent to Staff Employee.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:
for Chief, Personnel Security Division

CONFIDENTIAL

Latin American Institute
900 Park Avenue
N.Y.C.-21
LANGUAGE SCHOOL
No.
SUBJECT
of Grade
Weeks
SPANISH
Grammar 1 3/49 16
Grammar 2 92/92 16
Grammar 3 5/50 14
Conversation 1 5/49 16
Conversation 2 42/90 16
Conversation 3 4/49 16
SP. Commercial Correspondence 10/98 16
Diplomatic Correspondence
SP. Word Study and Spelling 1/50 16
Translation Techniques 5/50 16
Technique of Interpreting
Bibliographic Research
Cultural Background of
Latin America
Contemporary Latin American
Thought
Hispano-American Painting
SPANISH JOURNALISM
Style and Structure
Foreign Reporting
Script Writing and Translation
Advertising Copy Writing
Advertising Promotion
PORTUGUESE
Grammar 1
Grammar 2
Grammar 3
Conversation 1
Conversation 2
Conversation 3
Commercial Correspondence
Diplomatic Correspondence
Word Study and Spelling
Translation Technique
Technique of Interpreting
Bibliographic Research
GERMAN
Grammar
Conversation
Commercial Correspondence
ENGLISH
English for Foreigners
Writing
Business English
Diplomatic Correspondence
Writing for Radio
DIPLOMATIC &
ADMINISTRATION SCHOOL
Banking
Economics
Finance
Econ. & Pol. Geography
International Relations
World Problems
Latin American History
U. S. History
European History
Far Eastern History
Admiralty Law
International Comm'l Law
Technique of Taking Exams
Advertising Princip.
Public Relations
Merchandising
Personnel Management
Psychology
Sociology
Diplomatic Etiquette
Editing
Coll. Sp. I
Pers. but I s/so
ATTENDANCE RECORD
Days Absent
Times Tardy
BUSINESS SCHOOL
STENOGRAPHY (Gregg-Pittman)
Spanish
French
Portuguese
Dictation & Transcription
English
French
Spanish
Portuguese
TYPEWRITING
English 1
English 2
English 3
Spanish
French
Portuguese
COMMERCIAL SUBJECTS
Bookkeeping
Secretarial Accounting
Principles of Accounting
Cost Accounting
Accounting for Executives
Business Machines
Business Mathematics
Statistics
Business Etiquette
Export Consular Documents
Accounting for Export
Credit & Collections
Export Transportation
Market Analysis
Export Practice & Procedure
Air Freight Traffic
Foreign Trade I
Foreign Trade II
KENT, William

Saw
Salvador

CLASSIFICATION
FITNESS REPORT
SECTION A GENERAL INFORMATION
1. EMPLOYEE NUMBER 2. NAME (Last, first, middle) 3. DATE OF BIRTH 4. SEX 5. GRADE 6. SD
059198 Kent, William M. 9 May 1929 M GS-14 D
7. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE 8. OFF/DIV/BR OF ASSIGNMENT 9. CURRENT STATION 10. CODE (ck one)
Ops Officer DDO/PS/CMG/NOC Washington [X] Hqs. [ ] DF
11. TYPE OF APPOINTMENT 12. TYPE OF REPORT
[ ] CAREER [ ] RESERVE [ ] CONTRACT [X] TEMPORARY [ ] ANNUAL [ ] REASSIGNMENT/SUPERVISOR
[ ] OTHER (Spec.) [ ] SPECIAL [X] REASSIGNMENT/EMPLOYEE [ ] SPECIAL
13. REPORTING PERIOD (from-to-) 14. DATE REPORT DUE IN O.P.
1 January 75 - 31 October 75 30 November 75
SECTION B QUALIFICATIONS UPDATE
IF QUALIFICATIONS UPDATE FORM IS BEING SUBMITTED WITH CHANGES, AND IS ATTACHED TO THIS REPORT, PLACE THE
WORD “YES” IN THE BOX TO THE RIGHT. IF NO CHANGES ARE REQUIRED, PLACE THE WORD “NO” IN THE BOX AT RIGHT.
[ ] YES [X] NO
SECTION C PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
U-Unsatisfactory Performance is unacceptable. A rating in this category requires immediate and positive remedial action. The nature of the action
could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken
or proposed in Section D.
M-Marginal Performance is deficient in some aspects. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section D and remedial actions
taken or recommended should be described.
P-Proficient Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected.
S-Strong Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.
O-Outstanding Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar
work as to warrant special recognition.
SPECIFIC DUTIES
List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee
performs EACH specific duty. Consider ONLY effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities MUST be rated on
their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).
SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 1 Under the general guidance of Branch management, RATING
develops and implements a centralized system for finding suitable LETTER
NOC personnel to fill specific vacancies; devises and implements
procedures for identifying suitable positions for unassigned NOC personnel. O
SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 2 Maintains effective working relationships with various RATING
elements of the DDA such as Office of Personnel, Office of Medical LETTER
Services, Office of Security and DDO's operating divisions con-
cerning placement and assignment of personnel for NOC duties. O
SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 3 As Chief of the Branch’s Personnel Resources and RATING
Requirements Section, establishes and maintains liaison with the LETTER
respective CIA components to develop data on nationality, back-
ground, education, language skills, professional specialties
available to the Branch as aids to systematic NOC personnel S
SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 4 Searches and surveys personnel under nonofficial cover. RATING
Serves as Branch area referent for LA and AF Divisions. Monitors LETTER
and reviews assignments, effectiveness, and problems of NOC officers
in LA and AF Divisions. Recommends as appropriate concurrence or
corrective actions in conformity with DO objectives and standards. S
SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 5 RATING
LETTER
SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 6 RATING
LETTER
OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION
Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position such as performance of specific duties,
productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, and particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge
of employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the letter in the rating box corresponding to the statement which most accu-
rately reflects his level of performance.
FORM
9-73
45
OBSOLETE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS
CLASSIFICATION
007327
E2, IMPDET CL BY
RATING
LETTER
O

SECRET
COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL (contd) William M. Kent
Clandestine Service, one of my prime responsibilities is to try to
reestablish the integrity of the current letter evaluations used in
fitness reports and one of the first places for me to start is in my
own Staff.
With that said, I do wish to underscore the fact that Mr. Kent
is a responsible and responsive professional who knows what he has
to do, does it with a minimum of fuss, writes clearly and to the point,
is dedicated and in my judgment fully warrants an overall evaluation
of strong. The above comments will be shown to the rater as well
as the ratee.

SECRET

SECTION D Narrative Comments (Continued)
languages (Spanish and Italian), and his admirable command of English
prose which enables him to write crisp operational communications
with speed and precision, all aid him in carrying out his responsibilities
in a superior manner.
Subject does not become a victim of routine. In addition to
developing the effective referrals system noted above, he has also
on his own initiative created our own "skills bank" in which we are
able to locate suitable NOC candidates, and those on board, in terms
of needed professional or area experience, rare and esoteric language
skills, etc. to the point that we can supply "leads" to divisions
in a matter of minutes. (Several hundred NOC applicants and on-board
personnel have thus been listed by skills bank criteria.)
Subject constantly seeks to make the NOC Branch a more meaningful
and useful management tool. I find him a thoughtful and canny colleague,
careful to observe in full the regulatory limits of our activity but
quick to perceive opportunities to support and assist the divisions
within those limits. He is a firm, fair, no-nonsense supervisor of
Branch personnel. He speaks his mind, honestly but tactfully, when
differences occur between him and me. It is my conviction that he is
ready to enter into the upper reaches of staff and supervisory echelons
of the Directorate and has by now proven that he is as adept at staff
responsibilities as he was previously impressive in his field and
desk operational responsibilities. In short, a comer and a cherished
colleague.

SECTION D NARRATIVE COMMENTS
Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State
suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for
current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section C to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of
managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment and funds, must be commented on, if applicable. If
extra space is needed to complete Section D, attach a separate sheet of paper.
In February 1976, following the emergency hospitalization and
retirement of my deputy, Subject became my new deputy, a position he
has filled since that time in addition to performing most of the
assignments he had been tasked with earlier. His undiminished energy
and enthusiasm for his work is a hall-mark of his performance since
that time. Subject has, on his own initiative, developed our referrals
system (finding new NOC applicants and those on board for filling
specific area priority needs) to a point where it is serving the entire
Directorate with distinction and precision, especially in the "crisis"
areas of NOC needs, such as Africa and Near East Divisions. Thanks
to his creation of an orchestrated system of finding and "shopping"
new-hire applicants with rare skills, we have also begun to serve
the newly-created Clandestine Corps program with dozens of such
applicants, in addition to serving normal area division NOC needs.
As a Branch supervisor, Subject deals with the entire spectrum
of Branch activity in my absence with sureness and confidence. His
broad operational background abroad, his near-native ability in two
/continued/
SECTION E CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS
1. BY SUPERVISOR
MONTHS EMPLOYEE HAS BEEN
UNDER MY SUPERVISION
14
DATE
24 January 1977
IF THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION
OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR
Chief, NOC Branch
2. BY EMPLOYEE
TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE
Harris Greene
DATE
SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE
STATEMENT CONCERNING THIS EVALUATION
OF MY PERFORMANCE
HAVE ATTACHED
HAVE NOT ATTACHED
William M. Kent
3. BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL
COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
I became C/CMS on 1 October 1976 and thus my comments must be restricted
to the October-December 1976 time frame. I have no basic disagreement with the
narrative comments but do challenge the letter evaluations. While Mr. Kent's
performance has been strong and he has amply demonstrated he is a GS-15 level
officer capable of assuming greater responsibilities, I cannot concur that his
performance "is so exceptional to requirements of the work and in comparison of
others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition". On purely technical
grounds there is no other officer serving as DC/CMS/NOC and thus the comparison
is invalid. Secondly, as Chief, Career Management Staff and administrator of the
(contd)
DATE
26 January 1977
OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
Chief, CMS
4. BY EMPLOYEE
TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE
Robert D. Brown,
I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN THE ENTRIES IN
ALL SECTIONS OF THIS REPORT.
DATE
SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

SECTION A
1. EMPLOYEE NUMBER
059198
2. NAME (Last, First, middle)
Kent, William M.
7. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE
Ops Officer
CLASSIFICATION
FITNESS REPORT
GENERAL INFORMATION
3. DATE OF BIRTH 4. SEX 5. GRADE 6. SD
05/09/29 M GS-15 DYB
8. OFF/DIV/BR OF ASSIGNMENT 9. CURRENT STATION 10. CODE (ck one)
DDO/CMS/NOC Has. [ ] DF
11. TYPE OF APPOINTMENT 12. TYPE OF REPORT
[ ] CAREER [ ] RESERVE [ ] CONTRACT [ ] TEMPORARY [X] ANNUAL [ ] REASSIGNMENT/SUPERVISOR
[ ] OTHER (Spec.) [ ] SPECIAL [X] REASSIGNMENT/EMPLOYEE [ ] SPECIAL
13. REPORTING PERIOD (from-to-) 14. DATE REPORT DUE IN O.P.
1 November 1975 - 31 December 1976 31 January 1977
SECTION B QUALIFICATIONS UPDATE
IF QUALIFICATIONS UPDATE FORM IS BEING SUBMITTED WITH CHANGES, AND IS ATTACHED TO THIS REPORT, PLACE THE
WORD "YES" IN THE BOX TO THE RIGHT. IF NO CHANGES ARE REQUIRED, PLACE THE WORD "NO" IN THE BOX AT RIGHT.
[ ] YES [X] NO
SECTION C PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
U-Unsatisfactory Performance is unacceptable. A rating in this category requires immediate and positive remedial action. The nature of the action
could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken
or proposed in Section D.
M-Marginal Performance is deficient in some aspects. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section D and remedial actions
taken or recommended should be described.
P-Proficient Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected.
S-Strong Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.
O-Outstanding Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar
work as to warrant special recognition.
SPECIFIC DUTIES
List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee
performs EACH specific duty. Consider ONLY effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities MUST be rated on
their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).
SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 1 As head of the Branch's Referral Section, develops and RATING
implements a centralized system for locating suitable new-hire NOC LETTER
personnel to fill specific NOC needs by area divisions; also does
the same for unassigned NOC personnel as coordinator between area 0
SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 2 divisions.
As deputy to Chief, CMS/NOC, serves as latter's alter ego in absence
of branch chief, and as his principal adviser in all matters con-
cerning nonofficial cover in which the Branch is involved.
SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 3 Maintains effective working relationship with various
Agency components including Office of Personnel, Office of Medical
Services, Office of Security, etc., as well as serving as Branch
senior officer in dealing with CCS concerning assignment and appropriate cover for personnel under nonofficial cover.
SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 4
In charge of our Branch data bank on availability of NOC personnel
and applicants by nationality, language skills, professional skills
and specialties, foreign area experience, etc.
RATING
LETTER
RATING
LETTER
RATING
LETTER
SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 5 RATING
LETTER
SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 6 RATING
LETTER
OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION
Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position such as performance of specific duties,
productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, and particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge
of employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the letter in the rating box corresponding to the statement which most accu-
rately reflects his level of performance.
FORM
9-73
45
OBSOLETE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
E2, IMPDET CL BY 007327
RATING
LETTER
0

MEMORANDUM IN LIEU OF FITNESS REPORT
SUBJECT: Mr. William M. Kent, Period: 1 January - 20 May 1977
18 May 1977
1. As I depart from the assignment as Chief, Non-
official Cover Branch, Career Management Staff, I should
like to make a final comment on the performance of Mr. Kent
who has served with me during the entire period of my
assignment and who, since March 1976, has been my deputy.
More specifically, the period since 1 January 1977 has been
a trying one for this component and has culminated with its
sudden transfer from one component (CMS) to another (ADDO/D).
2. During this most recent period, Mr. Kent has
demonstrated his capacity for growth and leadership. He has
himself handled virtually all of the transition aspects for
the Branch, involving briefings and counsel for his new
overall chief (the ADDO/D) and for his new branch chief.
He has served in the past 30 days substantially as acting
branch chief, given my fairly lengthy TDY absence abroad
during that period. I can only reiterate my judgment in the
last fitness report that Kent is a senior and mature supervisory
officer, very well organized in his work habits and capable
of making measured judgments and decisions. His continuity
in all aspects of nonofficial cover and its ramifications makes
him a valued and valuable staff officer. I would say his
future contribution lies in the entire area of managing and
guiding Directorate personnel. I have noted the clear progress
he has made in the past year in taking supervisory decisions
involving personnel, firmly and crisply.
3. Given his impressive field and Headquarters experience,
Kent should be given an opportunity to display his worth in
future Directorate assignments involving discretion,
professionalism and maturity. I give him an unquestioned "Strong"
for this final period he has served with me.
Harris Greene
Chief
Nonofficial Cover Branch
SECRET

SECTION D
Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State
suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for
current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section C to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of
managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment and funds, must be commented on, if applicable. If
extra space is needed to complete Section D, attach a separate sheet of paper.
SECTION E CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS
1. BY SUPERVISOR
MONTHS EMPLOYEE HAS BEEN
UNDER MY SUPERVISION
IF THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION
DATE
18 May 1977
OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR
TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE
Harris Greene
2. BY EMPLOYEE
DATE
SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE
STATEMENT CONCERNING THIS EVALUATION
OF MY PERFORMANCE
HAVE ATTACHED
HAVE NOT ATTACHED
William M. Kent
3. BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL
COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
I am in basic agreement with these comments and with the overall rating of Strong.
Unfortunately, due to the physical separation of my office and that where Mr. Kent
labors, I find it difficult to provide meaningful substantive comments. I have served
as C/CMS only since 1 October 1976 and, while individual branches within CMS are
widely dispersed, I have been lucky in having each managed and run by a senior
experienced officer of supergrade rank. This was true in CMS/NOC and I am more
than willing to accept C/CMS/NOC's evaluation of Mr. Kent. In my own dealings with
Kent, I have found him to be responsive, informed, articulate and an excellent team
player. I am also aware of certain innovations developed by him and implemented
within CMS/NOC which have beneficially contributed to the Directorate's NOC program.
A good, solid officer with additional growth potential.
DATE
OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE
31 May 1977
Chief, CMS
Robert D. Brown,
4. BY EMPLOYEE
I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN THE ENTRIES IN
ALL SECTIONS OF THIS REPORT.
DATE
SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

FITNESS REPORT
GENERAL INFORMATION
1. NAME (Last, First, middle) 3. DATE OF BIRTH 4. SEX 5. GRADE
Kent, William M. 05/09/29 M
7. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE 8. OFF/DIV/BR OF ASSIGNMENT
Ops Officer DDO/CMS/NOC
11. TYPE OF APPOINTMENT 12. TYPE OF REPORT
OTHER (Spec.)
TEMPORARY ANNUAL REASSIGN.
MENT
13. REPORTING PERIOD (from-to-) 14. DATE REPORT DUE IN O.P.
1 Jan 77 - 20 May 77
QUALIFICATIONS UPDATE
IF QUALIFICATIONS UPDATE FORM IS BEING SUBMITTED WITH CHANGES, AND IS ATTACHED TO THIS REPORT, PLACE THE
WORD “YES” IN THE BOX TO THE RIGHT. IF NO CHANGES ARE REQUIRED, PLACE THE WORD “NO” IN THE BOX AT RIGHT.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
U-Unsatisfactory Performance is unacceptable. A rating in this category requires immediate and positive remedial action. The nature of the action
could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken
or proposed in Section D.
M-Marginal Performance is deficient in some aspects. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section D and remedial actions
taken or recommended should be described.
P-Proficient Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected.
S-Strong Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.
O-Outstanding Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar
work as to warrant special recognition.
SPECIFIC DUTIES
List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee
performs EACH specific duty. Consider ONLY effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities MUST be rated on
their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).
SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 1 RATING
LETTER
SEE MEMORANDUM IN LIEU OF FITNESS REPORT (ATTACHED)
SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 2 RATING
LETTER
SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 3 RATING
LETTER
SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 4 RATING
LETTER
SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 5 RATING
LETTER
SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 6 RATING
LETTER
OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION
Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position such as performance of specific duties,
productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, and particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge
of employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the letter in the rating box corresponding to the statement which most occu-
rately reflects his level of performance.
FORM OBSOLETE PREVIOUS
9-73 EDITIONS
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

Fitness Report for: Kent, William M.
Section D (continued)
healthy skepticism enables him to contribute materially to the
smooth, still on-going, transition from the old to the new way.
In this context he has made invaluable suggestions on how we
shall proceed in order to improve the operational efficacy of
a NOC officer, as well as to ease the burdens imposed on the
private life of a NOC officer.
3. Worthy of special note is the systematic and orderly fashion
in which he tackled each new problem. These attributes resulted
in his solving many of the thorny personnel problems which have
confronted us of late. Mr. Kent's industriousness -- on the
average he spends 10 hours a day in the office -- together with
his legendary meticulousness have enabled him to set up an
effective referral system through which we control the flow-
through of both traditional and new NOC officers -- a most
difficult and at times frustrating task.
4. As a deputy and acting branch chief he has been a firm
and stern supervisor who exacts precision and perfection from
his subordinates. The firmness and sterness, however, are
tempered by a judicious application of human understanding
or compassion in cases of "hard-to-place" NOC officers. His
advice in solving many of these cases to the satisfaction of
both the officer and the operational component involved was
most welcome.
5. In sum, Mr. Kent has been a most effective deputy. As
noted above, he has many outstanding traits and his overall
performance has been a solid strong.

SECTION D NARRATIVE COMMENTS
Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State
suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for
current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section C to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of
managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment and funds, must be commented on, if applicable. If
extra space is needed to complete Section D, attach a separate sheet of paper.
1. Having been appointed to my present position on 23 May 1977, this
report covers seven months. In this time I have learned to appreciate
Mr. Kent's excellent performance in supporting and guiding the mission
of this branch. Considering the outstanding evaluation he received from
my predecessor, it must have been a great disappointment to Mr. Kent
that he was not advanced to become branch chief. I make this observa-
tion because Mr. Kent has never demonstrated his obvious disappointment
to me. On the contrary, from the first moment he has shown extraordi-
nary and enthusiastic willingness in providing the needed continuity to
run this branch which controls the career progression of the NOC officer
complement consisting of between 275 and 300 officers at any given time.
No doubt the reader is aware of the intricate, complicated and at times
confusing bureaucratic machinery which governs the NOC officer program.
Mr. Kent has done a superb job in helping me understand and cope with
this maze.
2. With the creation of the Office of External Development and conco-
mitant issuance of new, precise and explicit regulations we now hope to
streamline and simplify this bureaucratic machinery. Mr. Kent's
knowledge of past practices coupled with his eagerness and at times
MONTHS EMPLOYEE HAS BEEN
UNDER MY SUPERVISION
TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE
Gerard J. Hahn
SECTION E CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS
1. BY SUPERVISOR
IF THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION
DATE
28 December 1977
OFFICIAL