14-00000

104-10186-10410

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES
16-26
127
SECRET
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
SAN SALVADOR
ADVANCE COPY
UNIF
TIME
BY
DATE
VR. FILE DDP, WH/AZ, CA2, CN/PEOP, CI, CI/OPS, CI/1C2, FI, FI/INT, SOOB
SECRET 2014402
DIR INFO MEXI WAVE CITE SALLY 5513
WHOIV CUBA.

REF A) (HSSW 215 (NOT SENT MEXI, WAVE)
B) DIR-7501
C) DIR-74952

[SALV] - 52564)
20 JAN 65 IN 63642

AMBASSADOR DELADINE FOLLOW UP APPROACH TO [RIVERA] PENDING RECEIPT OF LEKI GOVT REACTION.

HE UNDERSTANDABLY WARY OF LETTING RIVERA TOO ENTHUSED OVER PROPOSAL WHEN MEXICAN REACTION OF SURFACING MIGHT TORPEDO IT.

2. WHILE [SALV] SELL AS PAPER RECEIVED REF A WILL MAKE INTERESTING FREE NOT CLEAR ON UND STATED TO PRESENT IT.

BEING MADE AVAILABLE WITH TATTER THEN FURTHER DEBRIEFING.

3. FEELS IT WOULD BE UNDESIRABLE SURFACE NAMES OF TRAINEES FOR FOLLOWING REASONS:

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

A. [SALV] WOULD HAVE TO ARREST SAID PERSONS MENTIONED AND IT WOULD APPEAR THAT [SALV] DOES NOT BELIEVE INFO.

RIVERA INDICATED THAT HE WILLING MAKE THE ARRESTS, STATION INCLINED TO JUST THAT HE WOULD FOLLOW THROUGH DUE FEAR OF STIRRING UP SALVADORAN LEFTISTS, AND LACK OF JURIDICAL GROUNDS FOR PROSECUTION.

2. ALTHO [SALV] HAD KNOWLEDGE THAT AT LEAST 75 SALVADORANS RECEIVED GAN TRAINING BETWEEN APRIL 1963 AND APRIL 1964, HE WAS ABLE TO FURNISH ONLY 35 NAMES. OF THESE, LESS THAN HALF ARE KNOWN TO BE TRUE NAMES. WE THUS FEEL THAT IT WOULD BE BETTER NOT TO MENTION ANY OF THE G/W NAMES, STAND ON THE 75 FIGURE, AND IMPLY THAT [SALV] HAS MADE NAMES OF ALL 75 AVAILABLE TO [ES] WHO PRESUMABLY AWAITING PROPITIOUS TIME TO ROUND THEM UP.

C. G/N TRAINEES HAVE BEEN INACTIVE SINCE RETURN FROM CUBA AND ONLY RECENTLY STEPS BEING TAKEN BY FUAR MILITARY COMMISSION TO REACTIVATE THEM. SINCE [ES] WAS IN KEY POSITION TO REPORT ON THIS BUILDUP, THERE IS GOOD CHANCE OF PASSING G/N INFO AT LATER DATE WHICH WOULD PERMIT THEM TO CATCH WHOLE GROUP RED HANDED WITH EVIDENCE ON WHICH THEY COULD BE PROSECUTED.

INFO COULD BE USED AT THAT TIME TO BOLSTER [ES] CASE.

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

3. MENTION IN TESTIMONY (PAGE 55 OF OFF PAPER) THAT [ES] RECRUITED SALVADORANS AS INTEL AGENTS AND SURFACE DOSSIER AS EXAMPLE, WITHOUT MENTIONING CASES. THIS WOULD AVOID SURFACING OF WHICH WOULD PROBABLY TURN INTO HOSTILE AGENT VIS-A-VIS.

4. SURFACING CASE SHOULD BE PRECEDED BY ARREST OF.

5. RE FACE 55 OF DRAFT CAS PAPER, WE RECOMMEND DELETION OF DGI INVESTIGATE THAT [ES] PLANNING AGGRESSION AGAINST CIA TO STATION SINCE KNOWLEDGE IT HAS NO BASIS IN FACT AND WOULD BE COUNTERPRODUCTIVE FOR PROP PURPOSES OF PAPER.

6. IF FORCING RECOMMENDATIONS APPROVED BY MS, STATION ENVISAGES FOLLOWING CHRONOLOGY:

A. APPROVAL: [ES] KICKS OFF OPERATION BY ARRESTING PRINCIPALS IN.

B. ANNOUNCEMENT MESSAGE THAT EVIDENCE OF EXTENSIVE ACTIVITY TAKING TO GAS.

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000

C. IN RESPONSE, [ES] DISTRIBUTES REVIEW PAPER OF REF A PAPER FOR STUDY BY CAS MEMBERS.

D. THEN IS MADE AVAILABLE TO ANSWER QUESTIONS.

7. REQUEST COMMENTS.
SECRET
PAGE 4
