14-00000
104-10131-10014

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Personnel
ATTENTION: Mrs. Dorothy Turner
Room 5E03
FROM: Deputy Director of Security (Investigations
and Operational Support)
SUBJECT: (SAFLEY, Harold F.) (A)
#73036

1.  This is to advise that a CIA Identification Card will be
issued in the above captioned alias to an employee of TFW. You
are requested to establish an indices card in the above alias in
order that the Office of Personnel will be in a position to acknowledge any inquiries that might be received concerning the Subject.

2.  Upon receipt of any inquiry, you are further requested
to promptly acknowledge Agency employment for such individual and
then to advise the Chief, Cover Support Section of the Office of
Security, extension 6280 or 7380 or in the latters absence, Mr.
George Ladner, TFW/Security, extension 6055.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

KUHNKE/efb
6 November 1962

PENDING M/R: See TFW memorandum dated 5 November 1962 which was con-
curred in by Moorhouse of CCS with the understanding that I would advise
Mr. Bannerman of the action taken and obtain his approval upon the latters
return on or about 9 November 1962. An exception was made in this case
to the general rule that CIA identification in alias will not be issued
to (State Department) integrees. The exception was granted because of
Subject's position and long experience in matters of this nature
and due to the fact that it will be strictly controlled and limited to
assignment which will be directly by Mr. Harvey.

Ervan E. Kuhnke, Jr.

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION
DATE PREPARED
24 October 1962

1. SERIAL NUMBER 2. NAME (Last-First-Middle)
016229 SWENSON, Harold F.

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION 4. EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED 5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT
REASSIGNMENT REGULAR

7. COST CENTER NO. CHARGE- 8. LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by
ABLE Office of Personnel)
3132-1000-1000

9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS 10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
DDP Washington, D.C.
Task Force W
Office of the Chief

11. POSITION TITLE 12. POSITION NUMBER 13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION
ATTACHE, POL OFF 0663
OPS OFF (D BR CH)

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, etc.) 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16. GRADE AND STEP 17. SALARY OR RATE
FSR
GS 15 (2) $ 12,445
15,045

18. REMARKS
From: DDP/WH, Br. 2, Buenos Aires, Argentina, #0084
1 cy Security request

18A. SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL 18B. SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING OFFICER
LOUIS W. ARMSTRONG, C/TFM/Pers.

19. ACTION 20. EMPLOY. 21. OFFICE CODING 22. STATION 23. INTEGREE
CODE CODE CODE CODE

28. NTE EXPIRES 29. SPECIAL 30. RETIREMENT DATA 31. SEPARATION 32. CORRECTION/CANCELLATION DATA
REFERENCE DATA CODE

38. CAREER CATEGORY 39. FEGLI / HEALTH INSURANCE 40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.
CAR/RESV CODE CODE
PROV/TEMP 0 - WAIVER 1 - YES

42. LEAVE CAT. 43. FEDERAL TAX DATA 44. STATE TAX DATA
CODE FORM EXECUTED CODE FORM EXECUTED CODE
0 - NO PREVIOUS SERVICE 0 - NO 0 - NO
1 - NO BREAK IN SERVICE 1 - YES 1 - YES
2 - BREAK IN SERVICE (LESS THAN 3 YRS) 2 - NO 2 - NO
3 - BREAK IN SERVICE (MORE THAN 3 YRS)

45. POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION 46. O.P. APPROVAL DATE APPROVED

FORM 1152
4-62 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITION AND FORM 1152A.
