1fo4-10074-10095 [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR: STAFF
DATE/TIME GROUP: 262307Z
MESSAGE REFERENCE: 518053

CONF: C
DISSEM BY: ACTURN TO PER
INFO: C/OPS

TO: BUENOS AIRES
RYBAT MHSPIKE
REFS: A. DIRECTOR 511359*
B. DIRECTOR 507298**

C/IP/AN, C/CPS/1765, C/DCD, EUR, C/Iono
12/21/082
CABLE SEC SUGGESTS DISSEM TO C/DCA

1. FYI ONLY. IT HAS JUST COME TO OUR ATTENTION THAT DOMESTIC CONTACT DIVISION (DCD) IN JANUARY 1974 INTERVIEWED STEPHEN VAN CLEAVE, PRESIDENT OF INTELLIGENCE SERVICES, LTD. A PRIVATE FIRM, ON HIS PREVIOUS TRIPS TO ARGENTINA. THE MEETING RESULTED FROM VAN CLEAVE'S REPEATED REQUESTS TO MEET WITH DCD REPRESENTATIVES. VAN CLEAVE'S INTERVIEW DESCRIBED MAINLY HIS ACTIVITIES IN ARGENTINA TO ORGANIZE A SECURITY FORCE FOR COCA COLA. POUCHING STATION COPY OF REPORT.

2. DCD HAS BEEN BRIEFED ON POTENTIAL PROBLEMS FOR BUENOS AIRES STATION INHERENT IN VAN CLEAVE AND COUNCIL FOR THE AMERICAS INVOLVEMENT WITH ARGENTINE FEDERAL POLICE ON MATTERS RELATED TO TERRORIST KIDNAPPINGS, AND IS ADVISING THEIR FIELD OFFICES TO AVOID CONTACT WITH VAN CLEAVE IN FUTURE.

3. FILE: Y-4-359 200-b-484/3. E2 IMPDET.H
DATE:
ORIG: CIA
UNIT:
EXT:

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

RELEASING OFFICER:
COORDINATING OFFICERS:

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

--- Page 2 ---

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

CLASSIFICATION: OMF

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR:
DATE/TIME GROUP: 518053
MESSAGE REFERENCE INDEX

CONF:
DISSEM BY: AJTURN TO PER
INFO: FILE

UH COMMENT: * REPORTED TRIP TO WASHINGTON, D.C. AND MIAMI BY VAN CLEAVE AND TWO ARGENTINE POLICE OFFICERS.
**ADVISED THERE NO HOS TRACES ON VAN-CLEAVE OMO HAD STATED THAT HE WORKED FOR C.I.A. IN LATIN AMERICA UNDER COCACOLA COMPANY COVERS, AND THAT HAS HAD NO INTENTION ANY USE OF VAN CLEAVE.

DCD/OSS: LILLIAN I. GRANT (TELECOORD)
DC/OPS/ITG: BILL CANTRELL (CIN DHAFT)

DATE: 25 FEBRUARY 74/1625 HRS.
ORIG: DAVID H. DEUHURSTYKN
UNIT: EH/4/AR 03 J.
EXT: 1926

RELEASING OFFICER: Jazz Flannery.
COORDINATING OFFICERS: AC/UHD

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED E 2 NIPDET
