14-00000
104-10298-10184

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
19-114-25/2
ROUTING

TO: DIRECTOR
RB Filing (check one): NCS Record Value. Decay.
JAWAVE

FROM:
Rite is copy as indicated
Each copy initialed as indicated.
ACTION: TFW 10(MR CHARLES MATT, (TEW, NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED
Marked AT: 1830 27 MAY
INFO: DCI, DDP, ADDP, CA/GA/PRG, CA/PROP, S/C_2

OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE
RM 1359
IN 41885
OPI DI CITE HAVE 4777
GYVOSE

1. MIAMI HERALD 27 MAY CARRIES FRONT PAGE ITEM BY JAMES BUCHANAN ENTITLED "MIRO FADES AS EXILE CHIEF: THREE LATIN LEADERS BEHIND RAY". ARTICLE FLATLY STATES MIRO AND COUNCIL HAVE BEEN REPLACED BY MANUEL RAY WITH BACKING GOV MUNOZ MARIN, PRES ROMULO BETANCOURT AND FORMER PRES JOSE FIGUERAS, THAT RAY HAS TAKEN OVER POST WITH THE BLESSING OF THE UNITED STATES". FURTHER, ARTICLES STATES "FROM VARIETY SOURCES HERALD LEARNED THAT MIRO WAS NOTIFIED OF CHANGE ONLY THIS WEEK" AND THAT RAY'S REAPPOINTMENT AS "CHIEF IN EXILE" CAME FROM "UNDERGROUND IN CUBA" ACCORDING TO JOAQUIN GODOY, PROVISIONAL MRP HEAD IN MIAMI. AFTER FURNISHING RESUME CUBAN ACTIVITIES SINCE ORIGIN OF AMBUD, ARTICLE CREDITS CUBANS IN MIAMI WITH SAYING "NEW MAN IN FIELD" IS ADOLF A. BERLE JR. WHO HAS BEEN SPECIAL ASST TO STATE DEPT AND IS ALSO "MEMBER OF PRES KENNEDY'S SPECIAL TASK FORCE ON LATIN AMERICA". IMPLICATION BEING THAT BERLE IS RUNNING NEW UNITED STATES SPONSORED CUBAN EFFORT.

2. THIS RELEASE CAUSING SOME FUROR IN LOCAL CUBAN COLONY TO EXTENT AT LEAST ONE CPS AGENT DESTINED FOR ISOLATION TRAINING HAS ASKED TO BE RELIEVED IF THERE ANY TRUTH THIS STORY. MEANWHILE WAVE

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
RB Filing (check one): No Cond Value. Decay.
RI Be this copy as indicated
Each copy initialed as indicated
RS Indexing (check one):
Marked None required.
Signature:

PAGE 2

ROUTING

WAVE 4C77 IN 41885

CHECKS WITH KNOWLEDGEABLE CONTACTS HAS PRODUCED LITTLE OTHER THAN WILLIAMES. WIBAL DA'S STATEMENT THAT BUCHANAN JOURNALISTIC REPUTATION INDICATES HE INACCURATE AND SENSATIONAL IST. ANCLATTER-1 AND PASS OV OY ATTEMPTING DISCREETLY TRACE BUCHANAN SOURCE FOR "U.S. BLESSING."

3. BUCHANAN HAS PREVIOUSLY ATTACKED MIRO RE DURING RETURN PLAYA GIRON PRISONERS MIAMI. HAVE NO REAL INSIGHT INFO SIGNIFICANCE THESE ATTACKS BUT BELIEVE THEY COULD REFLECT BUCHANAN OR MIAMI HERALD ATTEMPTS FORCE CHANGES IN UNITES STATES POSTURE RE CURA.

4. EXPECT ARTICLE WILL HAVE FURTHER REPERCUSSIONS AS IT SPREADS. WISH ALERT HAS THAT IT MAY BE NECESSARY INITIATE ACTION DISCREDIT BUCHANAN STORY AS WELL AS REASSURE MIRO WILL FORWARD SUGGESTIONS THIS REGARD AFTER WE HAVE OPPORTUNITY FURTHER ASSESS STORY'S IMPACT.

5. POUCHING CLIRRING 28 MAY

END OF MESSAGE
