od-10301-10009 : [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM
RELEASE AS SANITIZED
1998
ARRB Request CIA-1
DRAFT

The following Directorate of Science and Technology documents can be Released in Full:

HR 1-11a 27 March 1964 Mission Statement
p. 15 for the Directorate
for Science and
Technology

HR 1-11a 27 March 1964 Organizational Chart
fig.3, p. 14 Office of the Deputy
Director for Science
and Technology

HR 1-11a 10 October 1969 Mission Statement
p. 15 DS&T

HR 1-11a 10 October 1969 Organizational Chart
fig.3, p. 14 DS&T

HR 1-13h 10 February 1975 Mission Statement
p. 15 DS&T

HR 1-13e 6 August 1959 Mission Statement
p. 21 Photographic
Intelligence Center

6 August 1959 Organizational Chart
fig.9 Photographic
Intelligence Center

16 August 1963 Mission Statement
p. 49 National Photo-
graphic Inter-
pretation Center

16 August 1963 Organizational Chart
fig.16, p. 48 NPIC

26 September 1966 Mission Statement
p. 47 NPIC

26 September 1966 Organizational Chart
fig.13, p. 46 NPIC

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce
DRAFT

HR 1-11e 27 March 1964 Mission Statement
p. 23 Office of Special
Activities

27 March 1964 Organizational Chart
fig.7, p. 22 Office of Special
Activities

The following Directorate of Science and Technology documents are pending Directorate re-review.

HR 1-11e 10 February 1975 Mission Statement
p. 23 Office of Technical
Service

HR 1-11e 10 February 1975 Organizational Chart
fig.7, p. 22 Office of Technical
Service

ORGANIZATION HR 1-11a

11. OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY

a. THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY. The Deputy
Director for Science and Technology is responsible for conducting basic and
applied research and development in the scientific and technical fields in
support of the Central Intelligence Agency. This includes responsibility for
liaison and contact with the scientific community as well as all Government
agencies on matters of science and technology in intelligence as appropriate,
and responsibility for furnishing technical planning, programming guidance,
and support to other Agency components utilizing science and technology in
support of their functions. The Deputy Director for Science and Technology
is responsible for the operation of certain technical collection projects and
for the research and development of the means used by them for technical
collection; for the production of scientific and technical intelligence; and for
research, development and, where appropriate, the operation of automatic
data processing equipment in support of the Central Intelligence Agency and
its mission; and is further responsible for the maintenance and operation of
a center in which all information relating to foreign missile and space opera-
tions is collated, analyzed, and provided for the Director and other appropriate
USIB agencies. The DDS&T shall operate a scientific career service to pro-
vide for the enhancement of career opportunities in the CIA, and shall direct
and coordinate the Offices of Computer Services, ELINT, Research and De-
velopment, Special Activities, Scientific Intelligence, and Foreign Missile and
Space Analysis Center, and serve as Chairman of the CIA Research and De-
velopment Review Board. (See organization chart, figure 3.)

27 March 1964 (182) 15

OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY

DEPUTY DIRECTOR
FOR
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY

ASSISTANT DEPUTY

EXECUTIVE OFFICER

SPECIAL ASSISTANT
TO DDS&T

SPECIAL ASSISTANT
TO DDS&T (COMOR)

OFFICE OF OFFICE OF RESEARCH OFFICE OF OFFICE OF FOREIGN MISSILE
OFFICE OF ELINT SCIENTIFIC AND SPACE ANALYSIS
COMPUTER SERVICES AND DEVELOPMENT SPECIAL ACTIVITIES
INTELLIGENCE CENTER

ORGANIZATION HR 1-11a

11. OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY

a. THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY. The Deputy
Director for Science and Technology is responsible for directing and coordi-
nating the activities of the Offices of Scientific Intelligence, Research and De-
velopment, ELINT, Special Activities, Special Projects, and Computer Serv-
ices, and the Foreign Missile and Space Analysis Center. His responsibilities
include:

(1) Advising the Director of Central Intelligence on scientific and technical
intelligence matters;

(2) Producing scientific intelligence;

(3) Coordinating, in a staff capacity, existing and proposed Agency research,
development, and engineering (RD&E) plans and programs to insure
responsiveness to Agency needs;

(4) Conducting liaison with the entire scientific community, including other
Government agencies, on matters of science and technology relating to
intelligence;

(5) Managing the “R” Career Service.

Revised: 10 October 1969 (482)

OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY

DEPUTY DIRECTOR
FOR
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY

ASSISTANT DEPUTY

EXECUTIVE OFFICER

SPECIAL ASSISTANT
TO DDS&T

OFFICE OF
COMPUTER
SERVICES

OFFICE OF
ELINT

OFFICE OF
RESEARCH AND
DEVELOPMENT

OFFICE OF
SPECIAL
PROJECTS

OFFICE OF
SPECIAL
ACTIVITIES

OFFICE OF
SCIENTIFIC
INTELLIGENCE

FOREIGN MISSILE
AND SPACE ANALYSIS
CENTER

ORGANIZATION

Revised: 10 February 1975 (871)

ORGANIZATION HR 1-11a

1. OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY

a. THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY. The Deputy
Director for Science and Technology is responsible for directing and coordi-
nating the activities of the Offices of Scientific Intelligence, Research and De-
velopment, ELINT, Development and Engineering, Weapons Intelligence, Tech-
nical Service, and the National Photographic Interpretation Center. His re-
sponsibilities include

(1) advising the Director of Central Intelligence on scientific and technical
intelligence matters;

(2) producing scientific intelligence;

(3) managing existing and proposed Agency research, development, and en-
gineering (RD&E) plans and programs to ensure responsiveness to Agency
needs;

(4) conducting liaison with the entire scientific community, including other
Government agencies, on matters of science and technology relating to
intelligence;

(5) imagery interpretation and exploitation in correlation with other informa-
tion to support intelligence production of the Agency and the Intelligence
Community;

(6) managing the “R” Career Service.

Revised 6 August 1959
PHOTOGRAPHIC INTELLIGENCE CENTER

23. MISSION

The Director of the Photographic Intelligence Center is charged with producing
photographic intelligence and providing photographic intelligence services in
support of the Central Intelligence Agency and the intelligence community.

24. FUNCTIONS

The Director of the Photographic Intelligence Center shall:

a. Produce photographic intelligence in support of Agency and national scientific,
military, economic, and geographic intelligence objectives.

b. Provide photographic intelligence support and services to the Agency and the
intelligence community.

c. Maintain a photographic intelligence facility manned and equipped to provide
complete analytic and technical photographic intelligence services in support
of special collection and exploitation requirements.

d. Provide accommodations and services within the center for military-service and
other Government representatives engaged in joint exploitation projects.

e. Assist in the evaluation of other intelligence sources through comparison with
photographic data.

f. Conduct an active program of research and development in equipment and
techniques for providing improved exploitation of photographic intelligence,
coordinating such activity as appropriate with Agency, military-service, and
other Government components.

g. Conduct liaison with and represent the Agency to Government and private
organizations on photographic intelligence activities, coordinating such liaison
as appropriate with interested Agency components.

h. Prepare photographic and photogrammetric intelligence collection require-
ments.

i. Assist in preparation of estimates of foreign capabilities in the field of photo-
graphic intelligence.

j. Perform such other functions related to photographic intelligence activities
as may be directed.

25. ORGANIZATION
See organization chart, figure 9.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE:

H. GATES LLOYD
Acting Deputy Director
(Support)

DISTRIBUTION: AB

REGULATION
NO. 1-130
PHOTOGRAPHIC INTELLIGENCE CENTER

ORGANIZATION
Revised 6 August 1959

DIRECTOR
OF PHOTOGRAPHIC
INTELLIGENCE CENTER

ADMINISTRATIVE
STAFF

COORDINATION
CONTROL STAFF

SECURITY STAFF

DATA MANAGEMENT
DIVISION

INDUSTRIAL-
GEOGRAPHIC
DIVISION

MILITARY-SCIENTIFIC
INTELLIGENCE
DIVISION

TECHNICAL
SERVICES DIVISION

Figure 9

ORGANIZATION HR 1-13h

h. NATIONAL PHOTOGRAPHIC INTERPRETATION CENTER

(1) AUTHORITY. The National Photographic Interpretation Center (NPIC)
was established by National Security Council Intelligence Directive No. 8,
dated 18 January 1961 and functions under the executive direction of the
Director of Central Intelligence.

(2) MISSION. The National Photographic Interpretation Center is charged
with producing photographic interpretation reports, providing photographic
intelligence services in support of the national intelligence effort, furnish-
ing such additional support to departmental and Agency interests as can
be provided without degradation of national responsibilities, and promot-
ing an integrated and coordinated interdepartmental effort in the ex-
ploitation of photography for intelligence purposes.

(3) FUNCTIONS. The National Photographic Interpretation Center shall:

(a) Produce photographic interpretation reports in support of the na-
tional intelligence effort and approved Priority National Intelligence
Objectives to include preliminary rapid interpretation of photographic
detail and comprehensive photographic analysis, utilizing, whenever
possible, related collateral information.

(b) Provide as a service of common concern to the intelligence com-
munity photographic intelligence services in support of the national
photographic intelligence effort, and, whenever practicable, furnish
additional support to departmental and Agency interests.

(c) Maintain on a selective basis a consolidated central file of photo-
graphic data.

(d) Arrange for the exchange of photographs and photographic data
with other photographic collections in the intelligence community.

(e) Make recommendations where appropriate to facilitate the coordi-
nated development of compatible codes, indexes, and mechanized
systems for the efficient recovery, selection, and collation of available
photographic data.

(f) Prepare photographic and photogrammetric intelligence support re-
quirements.

(g) Provide analytic and technical photographic intelligence services in
support of special collection and exploitation requirements.

(h) Engage in or sponsor, as appropriate, the development of specialized
equipment for the intelligence exploitation of photography, and shall
provide information about such specialized equipment to interested
elements of the intelligence community for their own possible use or
further adaptation.

(i) Provide and maintain accommodations and facilities within the Center
for photographic intelligence units of U. S. Intelligence Board com-
ponents involved in national and departmental activities.

(j) Examine and make recommendations to the U. S. Intelligence Board,
as appropriate, as to any special security controls required.

(k) Consult, as appropriate, with individual departments, agencies, and
committees of the U. S. Intelligence Board on matters related to
photographic intelligence exploitation activities.

(4) ORGANIZATION. See organization chart, figure 16.

Revised: 16 August 1963

NATIONAL PHOTOGRAPHIC INTERPRETATION CENTER

DIRECTOR
DEPUTY DIRECTOR
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

ASSISTANT FOR ADMINISTRATION
ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF

ASSISTANT FOR OPERATIONS
OPERATIONS STAFF

ASSISTANT FOR
PHOTOGRAPHIC ANALYSIS
PHOTOGRAPHIC ANALYSIS GROUP

ASSISTANT FOR PLANS
AND DEVELOPMENT
PLANS AND
DEVELOPMENT STAFF

TECHNICAL
INTELLIGENCE
DIVISION

PUBLICATIONS
DIVISION

COLLATERAL
SUPPORT
DIVISION

PRODUCTION
SERVICES
DIVISION

ORGANIZATION HR 1-13e

e. NATIONAL PHOTOGRAPHIC INTERPRETATION CENTER

(1) MISSION. The National Photographic Interpretation Center is charged
with producing photographic interpretation reports, providing photo-
graphic intelligence services in support of the national intelligence effort,
furnishing such additional support to departmental and Agency interests
as can be provided without degradation of national responsibilities, and
promoting an integrated and coordinated interdepartmental effort in the
exploitation of photography for intelligence purposes. (NSCID No. 8)

(2) FUNCTIONS. The National Photographic Interpretation Center shall:

(a) Produce photographic interpretation reports in support of the national
intelligence effort and approved Priority National Intelligence Objec-
tives to include preliminary rapid interpretation of photographic detail
and comprehensive photographic analysis, utilizing, whenever possible,
related collateral information.

(b) Provide as a service of common concern to the intelligence community
photographic intelligence services in support of the national photo-
graphic intelligence effort, and, whenever practicable, furnish addi-
tional support to departmental and Agency interests.

(c) Maintain on a selective basis a consolidated central file of photographic
data.

(d) Arrange for the exchange of photographs and photographic data with
other photographic collections in the intelligence community.

(e) Make recommendations where appropriate to facilitate the coordinated
development of compatible codes, indexes, and mechanized systems for
the efficient recovery, selection, and collation of available photographic
data.

(f) Prepare photographic and photogrammetric intelligence support re-
quirements.

(g) Provide analytic and technical photographic intelligence services in
support of special collection and exploitation requirements.

(h) Engage in or sponsor, as appropriate, the development of specialized
equipment for the intelligence exploitation of photography, and shall
provide information about such specialized equipment to interested
elements of the intelligence community for their own possible use or
further adaptation.

(i) Provide and maintain accommodations and facilities within the Center
for photographic intelligence units of U.S. Intelligence Board compo-
nents involved in national and departmental activities.

(j) Examine and make recommendations to the U.S. Intelligence Board,
as appropriate, as to any special security controls required for photo-
graphic and related materials.

(k) Consult, as appropriate, with individual departments, agencies, and
committees of the U.S. Intelligence Board on matters related to photo-
graphic intelligence exploitation activities.

(3) ORGANIZATION. See organization chart, figure 13.

Revised: 26 September 1966 (308)

NATIONAL PHOTOGRAPHIC INTERPRETATION CENTER

DIRECTOR
NATIONAL
PHOTOGRAPHIC
INTERPRETATION CENTER

SUPPORT STAFF

ASSISTANT FOR
PLANNING AND
MANAGEMENT

ASSISTANT FOR
OPERATIONS

ASSISTANT FOR
PHOTOGRAPHIC
ANALYSIS

ASSISTANT FOR
TECHNICAL
DEVELOPMENT

TECHNICAL
INTELLIGENCE
DIVISION

PUBLICATIONS
DIVISION

INFORMATION
PROCESSING
DIVISION

COLLATERAL
SUPPORT
DIVISION

PRODUCTION
SERVICES
DIVISION

ORGANIZATION HR 1-11e

e. OFFICE OF SPECIAL ACTIVITIES

(1) MISSION. The Assistant Director for Special Activities is charged with
the development and operation of certain highly sensitive technical col-
lection programs.

(2) FUNCTIONS. The Assistant Director for Special Activities, shall:

(a) Develop and operate special projects for the collection of intelligence
by advanced technical means.

(b) Stimulate the exploitation by the Agency of advanced technology to
further the Office's mission.

(c) Conduct research and development in methods for conveying advanced
technical collection devices.

(d) Establish and maintain liaison with appropriate civilian and Govern-
ment agencies in order to keep abreast of developments which might
affect the Office's activities, capabilities, or requirements.

(3) ORGANIZATION. See organization chart, figure 7.

27 March 1964 (182)

OFFICE OF SPECIAL ACTIVITIES

ASSISTANT DIRECTOR
FOR
SPECIAL ACTIVITIES

SPECIAL ASSISTANT
FOR LIAISON

DEPUTY ASSISTANT DIRECTOR
EXECUTIVE OFFICER

SECURITY STAFF

PROGRAMS STAFF

DEPUTY FOR TECHNOLOGY

ADVANCED
PROJECTS
DIVISION

DEVELOPMENT
DIVISION

ENGINEERING
ANALYSIS
DIVISION

CONTRACTS
DIVISION

DEPUTY FOR FIELD ACTIVITIES

SUPPORT
DIVISION

OPERATIONS
DIVISION

INTELLIGENCE
DIVISION

MATERIEL
DIVISION

COMMUNICATIONS
DIVISION

ORGANIZATION HR 1-11e

e. OFFICE OF TECHNICAL SERVICE

(1) MISSION. The Director of Technical Service is responsible for close opera-
tional support of DDO operations through the development, engineering,
testing and evaluation, production, storage, and deployment of equipment
and techniques in the fields of audio, authentication, chemical communi-
cations, operational disguise, tracking and locating, nuclear detection,
visual operations, behavioral activities, graphics, document analysis, etc.

The Office of Technical Service evaluates foreign finds for the Intelligence
Community as well as conducting analysis in the areas of operational
support.

(2) FUNCTIONS. The Director of Technical Service

(a) provides equipment, personnel services, and materials in direct sup-
port of DDO operations, and certain approved overseas operations of
other member agencies of the U.S. Intelligence Community;

(b) develops, engineers, tests, and manages the production and stock stor-
age of technical equipment for support of clandestine technical op-
erations;

(c) evaluates foreign finds for the Intelligence Community, and performs
such other services as may be directed by the DCI.

(3) ORGANIZATION. See organization chart, figure 7.

10 February 1975 (871)
