14-00000
104-10186-10099
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title
18, USC, Sections 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only

COUNTRY: Cuba
SUBJECT: Policy Guidance Directives for Cuban Intelligence Representatives in the Dominican Republic
REPORT NO. CS-311/00466-65
DATE DISTR.: 11 January 1965
NO. PAGES: 8
REFERENCES: CS-311/00115-64
CS-311/00345-64
DATE OF INFO.: 1963
PLACE & DATE ACQ.: June 1964
SOURCE: FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

Source: A former Cuban intelligence officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comment: The following is a translation of a document which Source provided containing the policy guidance directive for Cuban intelligence representatives in the Dominican Republic, prepared by the General Directorate of Intelligence (Direccion General de Inteligencia--DGI), MA Department. The MA Department no longer exists as such, having been divided into two departments: Illegal Department (Ilegal) and National Liberation Department (Liberacion Nacional -- LN). It may be noted that this directive was prepared during the régime of Juan Bosch Gaviño.

DIRECTIVES OF THE M-A SECTION
COUNTRY: SANTO DOMINGO (sic)

Priority:
1. Collective action.
2. Status of leftist forces.
3. Dominican Republic Armed Forces.
4. Dominican Communist Party (Partido Socialista Popular Dominicano).
5. Training camps and operations bases.
6. Counterrevolutionary organizations.
7. Repressive corps and CIA Santo Domingo.
8. Status of political parties or groups.
9. Solidarity with Cuba movement.
10. Relations with United States.
11. Church.
12. Armed forces internal situation.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE ARMY NAVY AIR NSA FBI
DIA
REPCINCLANT I&NS

(Note: Field distribution indicated by "#")

For Distribution See Attached Page 2 (for AF/OSI, ACSI, ONE, SY, FBI DIA - 2 each)
TOTALS: CI/LS LIAISON
COORDINATING RESING
3LIAISON

NP (AMMUG-1) CS-311/00466-65

RWT
eb

---

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 1a - CS-311/00466-65

Hdqrs Dissem:
WE/1 1 EE/GNVA 1
WE/2 1 EE/ZURI 1
WH/COPS 1 WE/3 1 EE/HANB 1
WH/PO/A 1 WE/4 1 EE/KAVA 1
WH/PO/B 1 WE/5 1
WH/L 1 WE/BC 2 FE/DJAK 1
WH/2 13 WE/R 1 FE/MEDN
WH/3 1 FE/SURA 1
WH/3/V 1 Field Dissem FE/TOKY 1
WH/4 1 FE/OKIK 1
WH/5 WH/MEXI 1 FE/SEOU 1
WH/6 1 WH/NNTY 1 FE/SAIG 1
WH/B WH/NRID 1 FE/KOBE 1
WH/SDOM 1
WH/SA/EOB 5 WH/PIBO 1 NE/COLO 1
WH/SA/MOB 5 WH/POSN NE/NEED 1
WH/SA/R 4 WH/KNGS 2 NE/BOMB 1
WH/SA/Int 1 WH/PRIN 1 NE/CALC 1
WH/SA/CI 30 WH/GORG 2 NE/NDRS 1
WH/SA/SO/NS 1 WH/MANA 1 NE/KUKA 1
WH/SJOS 1 NE/KAHI 1
CI/Staff 5 WH/SALV 1 NE/DACC 1
CI/Liaison 1 WH/TEGU 1 NE/LAHO 1
CI/R&A 3 WH/GUAT 2 NE/RAWL 5
RID/AN 1 WH/LAPA 1 NE/BAGH 1
AF/1 1 WH/BOGO 1 NE/BEIR 1
AF/2 1 WH/QUIT 1 NE/DANA 1
AF/3 1 WH/GAYA 1 NE/ALEP 1
AF/4 1 WH/LIMA 1 NE/JIDD 1
AF/R 3 WH/CARA 1 NE/DAHA 1
AF/CI 1 WH/BUEN 1 NE/TAIZ 1
WH/COBA 1 NE/CAIR 1
WH/MONT 1 NE/ALEX 1
EE/K WH/ASUN 1
EE/SA 1 WH/SAGO 1 WE/BRUS 1
EE/BR 1 WH/RIOD 1 WE/COPE 1
EE/YA 1 WH/CURI 1 WE/HELS 1
EE/H WH/BRIL 1 WE/OTTA 1
EE/P WH/SAOP 1 WE/ROVE 1
EE/C WH/BHIA 1 WE/MILA 1
EE/IIS WH/BEHO 1 WE/HAGU 1
WH/LGRE 1 WE/OSLO 1
FE/PMI/1 WH/RECI 1 WE/LISB 1
FE/JKO/JO WE/MADR 1
FE/JKO/K WH/SA/WAVE 5 WE/BARC 1
FE/VNC/VN WE/STOC
FE/R AF/ALGI 1 WE/LOND
FE/CI AF/ORNA 1 WE/PARI
AF/RABA 1
NE/AA/L&S 1 AF/CASB 1 Liaison Dissem
NE/AA/AP AF/ACCR 1 IE Canada
NE/AA/E 1 AF/ENRY 1
NE/AA/I AF/BAKO 1 IE British
NE/5/P AF/DARE 1
NE/6/C&I 1./WASH BR] 11
NE/Intel 1 EE/VIEN 1
EE/SBUR 1
SR/CI 1 EE/CYRU 1
SR/CI/K 1 EE/ATHE 1
SR/RR 1 EE/SLON 1
SR/O/WH EE/BERN 1

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 2 - CS-311/00466-65

Important

13. Functions, characteristics, and personal data on members of the
foreign service, and of the accredited diplomatic corps.

14. The press.

Necessary

15. Status of the national economy.
16. Structure of the government and functions of its organs.

INFORMATION GUIDELINES AND OBJECTIVES
COUNTRY: SANTO DOMINGO

Priority:
1. Collective Action.

a) Political and military agreements adopted by regional organs
against Cuba in which the Bosch government participates.
Meetings in which the government's participation in the
adoption thereof may be agreed on. Dominican government pro-
posals on the Cuban case, and collective aggression.

b) Participation of the government in troops in the aggression,
units which would participate in the aggression, their chiefs
and strength.

c) Joint military maneuvers which may be held in Dominican
territory by Latin American armies. Participating armies
and units thereof.

d) Military concentrations of Latin and Yankee armies, ob-
jectives thereof; presence therein of Cuban mercenaries,
their conditions, U.S. Sol. (sic; soldiers?) such as mercen-
aries of the Plaza Giron type, etc.

e) Plans of provocations devised by the Dominican government
in order to show Cuban Government intervention in the
country's internal affairs.

f) Measures on travel to or from Cuba.

g) Possibilities for break in relations by countries that
may have relations with Cuba.

2. Status of Leftist Forces

a) Progressive forces: organization, leaders, strength,
position, and argumentation in the revolutionary struggle.

b) Possibility for armed struggle.

c) Contradictions and degree of unity among the leftist
forces.

d) Publications--circulation.

e) Repression against leftist forces.

---

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 3 - CS-311/00466-65

f) Contact with leftist forces in order to know their viewpoints
regularly, at all times, and when we may need it, especially
on political and economic changes which may take place in
Cuba.

g) Student, peasant, and labor movements. Organization, strength,
leaders, relations with the leftist forces, degree of unity.

h) U.S. and Church penetration in the mass organizations (labor,
peasant, student).

i) Possibilities of spontaneous manifestations of struggle.

j) Possibilities of guerrilla movement: groups, organizations,
leaders, weapons, popular support, relations with the left-
ist forces.

k) Struggle in the city: groups, leaders, form of work, role
of the labor and student movement, relations with the left-
ist forces, and with groups operating in the countryside.

l) Relations of exiles with the insurrectional movement.

3. Armed Forces of the Dominican Republic

a) Organization of the Dominican Armed Forces, units, and
strength of the various corps. Bases, barracks, weapons, and
transport of the Armed Forces. Locations.

b) Budgetary allocations of the Armed Forces; allocations to
each branch (Navy, Air Force, and Army).

c) Existing bilateral agreements with the United States of a
secret nature.

d) Secret or public military pacts entered into by Santo Domingo
with countries in the Caribbean area, agreements by them con-
cerning special arrangements.

e) Yankee military missions. Names, ranks, and functions of
their members, their duties.

f) Armed Forces units with anti-guerrilla training, their
strength, time spent in anti-guerrilla training, instructors
giving it, weapons, and transportation in the possession of
the units. Leaders of the units.

g) Other battalions or special units (parachutists, Rangers),
units and strength, their leaders, transport, and weapons.

h) Changes in armament; quantity and characteristics of the
new weapons acquired.

i) Participation by Dominican units in Central American or
Caribbean military maneuvers, units participating, strength,
their leaders.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 4 - CS-311/00466-65

4. The Dominican Communist Party (Dominican Popular Socialist Party,
PSPD)

a) Attitude toward the Second Havana Declaration.
b) Attitude toward Cuban-Soviet relations.

c) Attitude toward Cuba's political activities of a national
or international nature.

d) Position in regard to the disagreements in the international
Communist movement.

e) In the case of China and the USSR.
f) In the case of Albania and the USSR.
g) As regards Yugoslavia, China, the USSR, and Albania.

h) As regards Peace.
i) Regarding peaceful coexistence.
j) Internal status of the Party.

k) Forces.
l) Leaders (information concerning them).
m) Disagreements.

n) Relations with other leftist forces, disagreements, possi-
bilities for unification.

ñ) Methods of fighting officially adopted by the Party.

o) Attitude of the Party toward the elections.

p) Relations with the bourgeois parties and the government.
q) Work for solidarity with Cuba.

r) Publicity media.

s) The establishment of permanent and temporary contact with
the PSPD.

t) Relations of the PSPD with other Latin-American Marxist
parties.

5. Training Camps and Operational Bases

a) Location of training camps for Cuban mercenaries, number
of mercenaries in them. Type and duration of training,
organizations participating in it. Plans and missions of
the elements being trained. Leaders of the camps. Place
where the Cuban mercenaries go, recruitment locations.
Participation by national elements in the training of
mercenaries of foreign nationality.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 5 - CS-311/00466-65

6. Presence of counterrevolutionary elements in the Dominican
armed forces; names, assignments, and functions.

7. Location of counterrevolutionary operational bases on
Dominican soil; type of bases. Water craft or aircraft
present on them. Counterrevolutionary organization, which
appears at the head of them. Elements participating. Type
of water craft and their characteristics. Their weapons,
objectives, and plans of attack; dates when they are to be
carried out.

8. Counterrevolutionary Organizations

a) Cuban counterrevolutionary organizations which are function-
ing in Santo Domingo; their leaders. Their contact with
government personnel, especially with people in the new
régime who are responsible for establishing such contact.

b) Contact by the Bosch government with the magazine Bohemia
in Exile of Miguel Angel Quevedo; financial support given
it by him, and through whom.

c) Contact with Carlos Prío and elements linked with the PRC;
assistance to them. Contact with the counterrevolutionary
organizations; contact with the political parties; elements
through which it is effected.

d) Methods of communication by the elements in Santo Domingo
with the counterrevolutionary centers in Miami; through
whom the communications are established, and what means are
used for this purpose.

e) Obtaining documents which prove that the Dominican govern-
ment gives economic assistance to the counterrevolutionary
elements.

f) Counterrevolutionaries who are now working in the Dominican
state apparatus or in Yankee aid institutions; disagreements
between them and the Dominican workers.

g) Connections between the counterrevolutionary organizations
and the Trujillo régime. Documents proving these connections.

9. Repressive Bodies and CIA, Santo Domingo

a) Repressive bodies which function in Santo Domingo. Their
functions. Activities carried on by them. Their leaders
and principal officers. Working methods. Plans and ob-
jectives.

b) Intelligence organizations functioning in Santo Domingo.
Leaders. Elements abroad. Their duties and functions.
Activities carried on. Plans and objectives of Dominican
Intelligence, principally against Cuba. Trujillist cle-
ments still functioning inside this body; duties and
functions.

c) Cooperation between the Dominican repressive bodies and
those of the Latin American countries, especially those
of Central America.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 6 - CS-311/00466-65

d) Meetings held with them, dates, and personnel participating
in the meetings; locations. Points discussed, agreements
arrived at against Cuba, and the Movement of National Libera-
tion. Plans and objectives of the national security forces
with regard to the Movement of National Liberation, means
and resources mobilized, agents infiltrated into the poli-
tical movements, repressive methods prescribed.

e) Contacts with Interpol. Cooperation with it. Restrictive
measures regarding trips to Cuba. Agents.

f) Foreign advisers of the repressive forces and intelligence
bodies; names, ranks, and positions; their functions; cases
in which they have participated.

g) Leading functionaries of the CIA in the country: its office.
Plans and objectives it pursues in Santo Domingo.

h) Nationals who are working for the CIA; names, ranks, and
positions. Their methods and plans. Purpose of their
work.

10. Status of the Parties or Political Groups

a) Their present status in regard to composition, strength,
penetration, factions, leaders, programs, etc.

b) Participation in the government.

c) Relations of the political parties with the Embassy, the
monopolies, the Church, and the Armed Forces.

d) Organizations of a fascist type: relations with the govern-
ment, the Yankee Embassy, the Church; leaders, members,
structure, anti-Communist campaign, arguments, attacks upon
Cuba.

e) Provenience of the funds of the political parties.

f) Attitude of the political parties toward the Cuban Revo-
lution.

g) Toward the Second Havana Declaration.

h) In regard to Cuban-Soviet relations, in questions which
affect Cuba and world peace.

i) Concerning rightist and extreme rightist groups.

j) Reactions to the economic and political changes taking
place in Cuba.

11. Movement for Solidarity with Cuba

a) Possibility of active demonstrations in favor of Cuba:
groups, leaders, strength, organization, participants,
relations with the forces of the left and other progres-
sive forces.

b) Repression directed at the movement for solidarity with
Cuba.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 7 - CS-311/00466-65

c) Propaganda campaigns for and against. Periodicals; themes.

12. Relations with the United States

a) Alliance for Progress.

b) The American Embassy. Information on the activities of the
Ambassador and the personnel of the Embassy. Relations with
the reactionary organizations. Relations with the Church.
Government functionaries in close contact with the Embassy.

13. The Church

a) Ecclesiastical hierarchy. Information concerning it.

b) Attitude and disagreements between the national clergy and
foreign countries.

c) Participation by the Church in the internal politics of
the country.

d) Secular organizations of the Church (such as young people,
Catholic labor, Catholic knights).

e) Penetration of the Church into the educational system of
the country on various levels.

14. Internal Status of the Armed Forces

a) Information on the military chiefs and the activities they
carry on. Groups they observe. Trends and disagreements.

Important

15. Functioning; Characteristics and Information on Members of the
Foreign Service of the Diplomatic Corps Accredited to the Country

a) United Nations, Organization of American States, the JID
(Inter-American Defense Board).

b) Latin American functionaries in this country. To work with
the diplomatic circles accredited to the country.

16. The Press

a) Information on journalists and dissemination organs.
Possibility of making use of them. Journalists in the
country and abroad.

Required

17. Status of the National Economy

a) United States investments (new and old).

b) Participation by the national oligarchy in the economy.
Industry, commerce, agriculture.

c) Utilization and location of Trujillo's property.

d) Trend of the level of unemployment.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 8 - CS-311/00466-65

e) Relations of the country in regard to Central American
economic integration.

f) Possibility of a new economic policy of the United States
monopolies in the country.

g) Need for obtaining collaborators who will inform us periodi-
cally on economic questions.

18. Structure of the Government and Functioning of its Apparatus

a) Character of the government, program, international policy.

b) Relations between the Presidency and the ministries.

c) Functioning of the Congress. Most prominent figures. Re-
lations with the Yankee Embassy. Representation of the
bourgeois parties and the social classes.

d) The judiciary: personages occupying high positions;
important laws. Repressive laws. Relations of the
judiciary with the other authorities.

e) Information on personalities connected with Juan Bosch.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
