14-00000
104-10161-10097
2028 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ABLE SEE DISSEM BY.
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED.
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED BY:
TOTAL COPIES

SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

AT
ACTION UNIT
RF. FILE. VR.
ACTION #
T 631054 EIA355 PAGE 01 IN 805199
TOR:261252Z JAN 76 MADR 29824
SECRET 261332Z JAN 76 STAFF
15-2
CITE [MADRID] 29624

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR, [LISBON]
[MHSPLASH]
15-15

1. MORNING 25 [JAN KALBING] RECEIVED PHONE CALL AT HOME FROM YOUNG MAN WHO SAID HE CHRIS PHILLIPS, SON OF DAVE PHILLIPS. HE SAID HE ON VACATION AND REQUESTED INFO ON WHAT TO SEE AND DO IN MADRID AREA. ALSO ASKED IF POLITICAL SITUATION IN PORTUGAL SUCH THAT TRAVEL THERE WOULD BE NO PROBLEM. [KALBING] WAS ON WAY TO MEETING AND ASKED THAT HE CALL BACK LATER. HE DID, AND SAID HE TRAVELING TO LISBON THAT NIGHT AND WOULD RETURN MADRID LATER IN WEEK. HE SAID HE DID NOT HAVE ADDRESS IN MADRID AT MOMENT AND WOULD CALL [KALBING] AGAIN UPON RETURN TO MADRID.

2. WE SOMEWHAT SUSPICIOUS THIS CALL SINCE [KALBING] DOES NOT KNOW CHRIS PHILLIPS, ALTHOUGH IT POSSIBLE HIS FATHER GAVE HIM [KALBING'S] NAME AS SOMEONE TO HELP HIM WITH TOURIST QUESTIONS. ALSO DOUBT THAT PHILLIPS WOULD HAVE CALLED BACK IF HE ONLY PROBING FOR LOCATION OF CIA PERSONNEL, SINCE FIRST CALL WOULD HAVE CONFIRMED WHAT HE WANTED KNOW. CHECK WITH MARINE

SECRET

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

ABLE SEC DISSEM BY
PER
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED.
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED BY:
ACTION UNIT
RF. FILE. VR.
ACTION #
TOTAL COPIES
RUN BY

SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
STAFF

T 631054 EIA355 PAGE 02-02 IN 805199
TOR:261252Z JAN 76 [MADR] 29824
15-2

GUARD REVEALED THAT SOMEONE HAD CALLED EMBASSY MORNING 25 JAN ASKING FOR [KALBING'S] HOME PHONE. MARINE GUARD FURNISHED THE NUMBER, ALTHOUGH RECENT EMBASSY INSTRUCTION IS NOT TO GIVE OUT SUCH NUMBERS BUT ASK CALLER FOR HIS NUMBER AND SAY PERSON WILL GET IN TOUCH WITH HIM.

3. CAN HQS CONFIRM THAT CHRIS PHILLIPS TRAVELING IN IBERIA AND THAT DAVE PHILLIPS GAVE HIM NAMES OF PEOPLE TO CALL ON THERE?
15-15

4. [LISBON] PHILLIPS MAY ALSO CALL ON PERSONS YOUR STATION WHO KNOWN TO DAVE PHILLIPS.

5. FILE: DEFER. E2 IMPDET

SECRET
