```markdown
14-00000

104-10173-10132
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

20 December 1973

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: E. Howard Hunt

1. I phoned Paul Burns, Special Assistant to the DDO, and said that we had some leads that could be followed by whoever has the action in the DDO in tracking down Hunt's activities during the fall of 1964, when he was alleged to have been engaged in surveillance activities of Barry Goldwater.

2. I said that our files showed Hunt was in DO Division (Burns was not familiar with that title, but recognized it as the predecessor of FR Division) and in August 1964 was assigned to the Washington field office. I suggested that Stan Gaines, who was Deputy Division Chief of DO Division and now DCOS Bonn, might be in a position to give a few groups on what Hunt was supposed to be doing then. I suggested that he be queried by cable. Burns said Gaines is staying on under contract for a while, so would continue to be available.

3. I said that Fig Coleman was on the Iberian desk when the Hunt assignment to Madrid was brought up in 1964 and when Hunt went to the field in 1965. He could give the background on the assignment, which seems to have been through Karamessines at Helms' direction. His recollection would give leads. I told him that Coleman became COS Madrid later, after Hunt left Spain, and could provide information on what Hunt did not do for the Agency during that period. I suggested that both Helms and Karamessines should be queried. I gave as a possible press treatment that Hunt was engaged in domestic operations (something Senator Baker is pursuing) and that his assignment to Spain after the election could be presented as giving him time to cool off. I thought we had to pursue the matter to be sure we know the facts.

4. I asked Burns to be sure that we are on information distribution of cables to the field on this, given our assigned responsibility for keeping files on Watergate. He said we are on the PLMHPLANK for messages to Helms. He would advise the action officer. I said we are available for any help we can give.

S. D. Breckinridge

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

SECRET

9 May 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR: OPS/RMO

SUBJECT: Watergate File Research Final Report

1. The files of the immediate office of the Chief, OPS/OSG have been checked for material relevant to the subject of this memorandum. The check included chronological files of communications of which I was the author while assigned to Madrid, Spain in the period July 1970 to July 1973. Nothing pertinent was found.

2. I have attempted to recollect any other details which conceivably could be pertinent and which relate to the period of my assignment to Madrid. The only points which I recall but on which I have no documentation are these:

a. There were occasional joshing inquiries made of me by American residents of Madrid about the reported presence in Spain of E. Howard Hunt in 1972. My standard reply was that I knew only what I had heard rumored. For the record, at no time did Hunt contact me, and I have never known of his having tried to contact any Station personnel in Spain during the period 1970-73. I made no effort personally to ascertain whether or not Hunt was in Spain, and I had no effort made by any Station member.

b. A Station officer, possibly Richard Ouderkirk, now assigned to Guatemala, was given some information by an informant in 1972 concerning reported activities in Spain by Robert Vesco. I suggested that the information be given informally to the Embassy's Economic Section chief, John Oliver. That officer was charged with keeping abreast of developments related to Vesco. The Station did not pursue that subject, as I recall, because it was not a topic of reportable interest, according to requirements of the period.

E2.IMPDET
CL BY 056759

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

SECRET

-2-

SUBJECT: Watergate File Research Final Report (cont'd)

3. There is no other employee assigned to my immediate office who has relevant personal knowledge of events and personalities.

Robert E. Owen
Chief, OPS/OSG

SECRET

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED
USE ONLY

SUBJECT:

CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

FROM: Director of Finance
1212 Key Building

TO: Inspector General
2 E 24 HQS.

27 February 1974

COMMENTS
(Number each comment to show from whom to where. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000

SECRET

27 FEB 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR: Inspector General

SUBJECT: E. Howard Hunt

1. At the recent request of the Deputy Director for Management and Services, the Office of Finance has searched its records to determine if we could find any payment to Mr. Hunt in an amount of approximately $30,000 that required no accounting.

2. We have searched the following records:

a. The expense runs for the period July 1964 to June 1973 for the immediate Office of the DCI, the immediate Office of the DD/P, FI Staff, CI Staff, CA Staff and the Office of Security. We have checked various items that were reflected in these expense records but have identified nothing relating to Mr. Hunt.

b. The Madrid Station, JMWAVE and FR/Washington Office accountings to determine if there were funds passed by the Stations to Mr. Hunt during the year he served under non-official cover in Madrid. We could find no payment to Mr. Hunt either in his true name or his two identified pseudonyms.

c. Mr. Hunt's travel claims for the period 1960-1972 and have found nothing in these travel claims that were not consistent with normal travel expenses, i.e., transportation, per diem.

d. We made a specific analysis of Mr. Hunt's advance account for the period he was under non-official cover (July '65-Sept 66) and have

E2 IMPDET
CL BY: 006567

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000

SECRET

SUBJECT: Howard Hunt

determined that $33,500 was advanced to him for travel and transportation of household goods to and from Madrid with one trip to Paris for he and his family to renew their Spanish visas. All of this advance was fully accounted for. However, in his accounting, one item appeared unusual. It was an expenditure of $1,600 for a sensitive operation which was approved for write-off by Mr. Desmond Fitzgerald on 1 June 1966 without further accounting.

3. Also, we confirmed that no other Agency advance accounts were established for Mr. Hunt during this period.

4. At the beginning of his non-official cover tour, it was necessary to establish a bank account in his name. The EUR Division accordingly requested we open an account at the Chase, Manhattan Bank in Mr. Hunt's name to receive all non-salary payments. (Mr. Hunt had an account at Riggs National Bank to receive his salary and allowance payments). The following deposits were made to the account during 1965 and 1966:

Account opened: 13 July 1965
13 July 1965 $10,000
22 July 1965 5,000
15 September 1965 5,000
6 October 1965 5,000
19 July 1966 5,000
$30,000

All of the above have been accounted for by submission of travel and transportation accountings.

5. We feel at this time without specific guidelines that further searching would be somewhat fruitless. One strange aspect of the non-official cover assignment in Madrid is that all the costs were charged to the support allotment of the EUR Division which is not normal as non-official cover people are usually assigned to a project. It is unusual to have a case officer abroad for one year on an operational assignment without him incurring operational expenditures.

-2-

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000

SUBJECT: Howard Hunt

SECRET

6. The Office of Finance has not found operational expenditures except for the $1,600 mentioned above. Therefore, it is suggested that Mr. Karamessines be questioned as to a project or projects to which Mr. Hunt's operational expenditures if incurred would have been charged.

7. Another possible course of action is to request the Director to approve my asking a cleared contact at Chase Manhattan Bank to provide a transcript of all entries into Mr. Hunt's Chase Manhattan Bank account.

8. We are currently reviewing records of all cashier's checks prepared and issued by Monetary to determine if any were payable to Mr. Hunt. Hopefully this effort will be finished by the end of the week.

Thomas B. Yale
Director of Finance

SECRET

--- Page 8 ---

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

20 December 1973

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: E. Howard Hunt

1. I spoke with Fig Coleman about Hunt's assignment to Spain. I had spoken with him back in August when we were inquiring into reported activities involving Mrs. Hunt.

2. Coleman said that he got out of the War College in May 1964 (by which he fixed the time), and took over the Iberian desk. Bill Ryan was C/EUR (or was it WE Division at the time). In early autumn Ryan said that he had just been informed by the DDP (Karamessines) that Hunt was to be assigned to Madrid as DCOS, as a directed assignment by Helms. A memo was prepared and sent to the COS, Jim Noel (now retired). There was nothing further for about a month when Ryan called Coleman in and showed him a RYBAT letter from Noel stating that Ambassador Stanley J. Woodward would not have Hunt in the Embassy.

3. Woodward had been the Ambassador to Uruguay when Hunt was COS Montevideo. He had a low opinion of Hunt and was counting the days until Hunt left. The President of Uruguay visited President Eisenhower in the States, at which time he requested a personal favor--that Hunt be reassigned to Montevideo. So Hunt took another tour. Woodward was outraged, and had his revenge in 1964 when Hunt was to be sent as DCOS to Madrid.

4. After a couple of months--early 1965--Ryan called Coleman in and, observing that there was more than one way to skin a cat, told him that Hunt was going to Spain under nonofficial cover. This didn't require anything special, Ryan saying that he didn't know much about it. It came to him from Karamessines on Helms' order. Hunt was to have the telephone number of the COS, but he would do nothing for the station. Hunt was to submit administrative vouchers for reimbursement of his expenses and they were to be paid. Coleman said he never saw Hunt before he went out. He knows that there was no operational reporting, to indicate that Hunt was doing anything.

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

The vouchers were not large, although the documentation was poor. Coleman raised the question with Ryan about his signing off, and Ryan said he could talk to Karamessines if he wished. Because Coleman had a close personal association with Karamessines he did just that. He was told by Karamessines that he didn't know much about it either--"Helms said send him out." He was instructed to go ahead.

5. In early July 1966 (4 July) Coleman went to Madrid. He had a ten day turnover with Jim Noel. Hunt had already gone and he did not see him. Noel said he didn't know what Hunt did, but that Coleman need not worry because he was gone.

6. Several months ago Noel was at a seminar at which Ambassador Woodward was also present. At the time he asked about Hunt. Woodward said it might still be dragged into the press. Tad Szulc had been after Woodward about the Hunt assignment to Spain. Coleman observed that Szulc did have a long article on Hunt in the New York Times, and the Spain assignment was mentioned, but without any conclusions as to its significance.

7. Coleman said the RYBAT file of C/EUR may have something on the event, but not much. A letter out and the reply, but not much more.

S. D. Breckinridge

--- Page 10 ---

14-00000

IG File 1 Tab 38
22 February 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: E. Howard Hunt--Madrid Assignment

1. On 22 February 1974, Mr. Frederick N. Evans and the undersigned interviewed Mr. Edward Ryan, Chief, Staff D, Deputy Director for Operations, on the subject of Mr. E. Howard Hunt. During the period of Mr. Hunt's assignment as a Contract A agent to Madrid between July 1965 and September 1966, Mr. Ryan had been the Deputy Chief of the Western European Division, Deputy Director for Plans. The purpose of the interview was to determine if Mr. Ryan had any information bearing on the matter of the operational assignment of Mr. Hunt during this period.

2. Mr. Ryan stated that the assignment of Mr. Hunt both to the European Division and to Madrid was handled without benefit of the routine processing procedures through the Western European Division. Mr. Hunt's assignment was coordinated and directed by Mr. Thomas Karamessines, the Assistant Deputy Director for Plans. With regard to operational duties, Mr. Ryan was unaware of any specific project or target for Mr. Hunt. Mr. Ryan made the specific observation that if Mr. Hunt produced positive intelligence on the Iberian target during this period the officials responsible for this effort within the Western European Division were totally unaware of it.

3. Mr. Ryan stated that most of his knowledge of Mr. Hunt's activity and the nature of his assignment during this period came more through hearsay than direct official knowledge. For example, he cited the comment made by a mutual acquaintance of his and Mr. Hunt's to the effect that Mr. Hunt stated that while in Madrid he was going to "play golf and write books."

Mr. Ryan was asked specifically whether or not he was

--- Page 11 ---

14-00000

under the impression that Mr. Hunt's writing activities were either being encouraged or subsidized directly by this Agency in any official effort. Mr. Ryan responded that he was personally not aware of any such arrangement. He added as an expression of personal opinion that Mr. Hunt had no operational function and was simply granted the opportunity to write books for his own personal gain at Government expense during this period.

Lawrence J. Howe

--- Page 12 ---

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED
CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

TO: Mr. Howe

ACTION
APPROVAL
COMMENT
CONCURRENCE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY
RECOMMENDATION
RETURN

FROM: O/IG/2E24 Hqs.

22 Feb 74

--- Page 13 ---

14-00000

SECRET

IG File 10, Tab 38
22 February 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Conversation with Sam Halpern.

1. I met with Sam Halpern for about 20 minutes this morning in GG10, where he is cleaning up some details before he goes to his new assignment as DC/DCD. I told him generally about our attempt to reconstruct Howard Hunt's assignments and financial transactions, and asked him particularly for recollections he may have of Hunt's assignment in Spain in mid-1965 to the fall of 1966.

2. Halpern said that he has no recollection about such an assignment. In June 1965 he moved from WH Division with Des FitzGerald when he became the DD/P. At about that time Halpern's father died and he was in New York for the funeral and ten days of religious observations following that. He was back in mid-June and in and out from then on as he got ready to attend the National War College which began in August. He did not return to that office until the end of June 1966.

3. Halpern observed that during this period Karamessines was ADDP with Helms moving up to be DDCI. He thought it entirely possible that Helms and Karamessines could have handled this on their own.

4. Halpern said that Evan Parker had come into the office of the DD/P shortly before Helms became DDCI, and had returned from Honolulu for that purpose. He stayed on for FitzGerald until Halpern returned from the National War College. He suggested someone might talk to Evan Parker who may have known something about it (although he may not). He also suggested talking to Georgia.

S. D. Breckinridge

--- Page 14 ---

14-00000

IG File 11, Tab 38
21 February 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Watergate - Frank A. O'Malley

1. At 3 p.m. on the afternoon of 19 February 1974, Mr. Frederick N. Evans and Lawrence J. Howe interviewed Mr. Frank A. O'Malley at his residence, 6419 Lakeview Drive, Falls Church, Virginia. Mr. O'Malley retired from this Agency in June of 1972. Prior to retirement Mr. O'Malley was an officer in the External Employment Assistance Branch, Retirement Activities Division of the Office of Personnel. It was Mr. O'Malley's function to assist personnel retiring from this Agency in finding post-retirement employment. In this capacity Mr. O'Malley had been instrumental in the placement of Mr. E. Howard Hunt in the Robert R. Mullen public relations firm. The purpose of this interview was to attempt to determine if additional information could be developed from Mr. O'Malley with regard to the placement of Mr. Hunt with the Mullen Company.

2. Mr. O'Malley began the interview by recalling the nature of his past Agency associations both with Mr. Hunt and the Mullen Company. Mr. O'Malley stated that prior to assuming his responsibilities in the Office of Personnel he had served with Central Cover Staff in the area dealing with the funding of covert action projects. In this capacity he had become familiar with the activities of Mr. Hunt while Mr. Hunt functioned on the Covert Activities Staff primarily in the propaganda field. Mr. O'Malley stated that he first came in contact with the Mullen Company when he was attempting to find an organization to handle the public relations effort of a covert Agency activity known as the Free Cuba Committee. Mr. O'Malley related that he had arranged this cover through the Christianform Organization and that his duties involved all aspects of the funding of this activity. Mr. O'Malley described the nature of his working relationship

--- Page 15 ---

14-00000

with Mr. Robert R. Mullen as being close and cordial. Mr. O'Malley stated that Mr. Mullen was in the habit of confiding to him information concerning other Mullen business contacts and projects. In response to a specific question, Mr. O'Malley stated that during the period of his contact with the Mullen Company dealing with the Free Cuba Committee, Mr. Mullen told him the Howard Hughes Organization was a client of the concern.

3. Mr. O'Malley reiterated his previous statements that Mr. Hunt was referred to his office for placement assistance through the Office of the Executive Director, then Colonel L. K. White. Mr. O'Malley stated that in view of Mr. Hunt's interests in the public relations field, it was thought advisable to put Mr. Hunt in touch with Mr. Robert Mullen for the purpose of gaining the benefit of Mr. Mullen's guidance. Mr. O'Malley recalled, after the initial meeting, Mr. Mullen mentioned having met Mr. Hunt some years previously in Paris, France. Mr. O'Malley's office arranged interviews with various organizations including Reader's Digest and the Kennecott Copper Company. Through the offices of the Mullen Company an interview was arranged with the General Foods Corporation, a Mullen client. Mr. O'Malley stated there was disappointment that Mr. Hunt had been unsuccessful in "selling himself" during any of these interviews and that no job offers had resulted. In response to a question as to whether or not executive level interest was still being shown in Mr. Hunt's post-employment placement, Mr. O'Malley recalled that Mr. Richard Helms, then Director of Central Intelligence, was listed as a character reference on Mr. Hunt's resume and that Mr. Helms signed a letter of recommendation to the Kennecott Copper Company on Mr. Hunt's behalf. Mr. O'Malley recalled being contacted in the last month of Mr. Hunt's Agency service by Mr. Mullen, who stated that a decision had been made to expand their operations. In view of this expansion, Mr. Mullen had decided he would himself offer Mr. Hunt a job. Mr. Mullen had stated that he was interested in having Mr. Hunt begin work immediately. However, Mr. O'Malley recalled that Mr. Hunt completed retirement formalities and actually started work for the Mullen Company approximately a week to 10 days later.

--- Page 16 ---

14-00000

4. Mr. O'Malley stated that contact was maintained with Mr. Hunt while at the Mullen Company on a continuing basis, because Mr. O'Malley was interested in Mr. Hunt for possible referral of other Agency retirees. Mr. O'Malley also understood that there was Cover and Commercial Staff interest in the Mullen Company, and that Mr. Hunt became instrumental in discussing several aspects of the cover operations in his capacity as an officer of the company. Mr. O'Malley recalled referring various Agency officers to Mr. Hunt for guidance when these individuals expressed an interest in entering the public relations field. Mr. O'Malley did recall disappointment in feeling Mr. Hunt had generally been less helpful on these occasions.

5. Mr. Hunt contacted Mr. O'Malley on several occasions requesting referral of retiring Agency employees with specific qualifications. These instances occurred apparently after Mr. Hunt had assumed his responsibilities with the White House. In one instance Mr. Hunt requested referral of a recently retired Agency secretary. As in previous memoranda and discussions, Mr. O'Malley was unable to recall the name of this individual. He did, however, state that he is quite certain Mr. Hunt turned down the individual whom he referred. As a point of clarification, Mr. O'Malley said that this individual had not previously been known to Mr. Hunt, nor had she previously worked for him in any capacity. Mr. O'Malley also recalled a request from Mr. Hunt for an individual having skills in the area of locks and surreptitious entry. A resume of Mr. Thomas C. Amato was provided to Mr. Hunt at that time. It is Mr. O'Malley's recollection that Mr. Hunt specifically stated that a person with Mr. Amato's qualifications was needed in connection with a requirement of the Howard Hughes Organization in Las Vegas, Nevada. Mr. O'Malley stated the opinion that it was his impression that the duties involved would include the monitoring of a listening device in an undisclosed location. Mr. O'Malley reiterated his understanding that Mr. Amato did not accept Mr. Hunt's offer of employment.

6. Mr. O'Malley then recalled request from Mr. Hunt for a recommendation of a security service organization to carry out an electronic countermeasures "sweep." Mr. O'Malley recommended the Wackenhut Corporation. Mr.

--- Page 17 ---

14-00000

O'Malley recalled that Mr. Hunt expressed dissatisfaction with that suggestion in part because of what Mr. Hunt viewed as that firm's political orientation. Mr. O'Malley did not elaborate further on that remark. Mr. O'Malley then suggested the use of Anderson Security Consultants, Incorporated, a commercial cover entity of the Office of Security. Mr. O'Malley stated that insofar as this organization was advertised in the yellow pages and that Mr. Hunt could be assured of the reliability of the services, he felt this to be a reasonable suggestion. Mr. O'Malley stated that during a subsequent phone call when Mr. O'Malley asked how his suggestion had worked out, Mr. Hunt responded, "Yes, they had done a fine job."

At this point. Mr. O'Malley was asked whether or not from his associations with Mr. Hunt he felt Mr. Hunt was in the habit of making glib comments which were not necessarily accurate in order to pass over a subject. Mr. O'Malley stated that this was categorically so. He said he was sure that Mr. Hunt had lied to him on a number of occasions and that, therefore, he was in no position to be sure that Mr. Hunt had actually, in fact, used the services of Anderson Security Consultants. Mr. O'Malley volunteered the opinion that he suspected the electronic countermeasures "sweep" was to be carried out in the offices of the Committee to Re-elect the President.

7. In response to a question as to whether he had ever referred anyone to McCord Associates, Mr. O'Malley replied that he remembered having referred Walter Brayden. Mr. Brayden for a time acted as bodyguard to Mrs. Martha Mitchell. As an aside Mr. O'Malley mentioned that Mr. Brayden had refused to carry a firearm in spite of the fact that Mr. McCord told him he could do so on the authority of the Attorney General. Asked specifically if he had ever referred either William Shea or Teresa Shea to Mr. McCord, Mr. O'Malley stated that he did not recall specifically referring Teresa Shea and that he was sure that he had not referred William Shea to him. So, contrary to previous statements, it is now Mr. O'Malley's belief that in all probability Mrs. Shea was not referred by this Agency to Mr. McCord.

--- Page 18 ---

14-00000

8. Returning to Mr. O'Malley's previous responsibilities in coordinating funding for the covert action activities of Mr. E. Howard Hunt, the issue was raised as to whether or not the funding of Mr. Hunt's projects continued between July 1965 and September 1966 while Mr. Hunt was a contract employee stationed at Madrid, Spain. Mr. O'Malley recalled that at the time of Mr. Hunt's assignment to Madrid the statement disseminated for consumption within the Agency was that Mr. Hunt was retiring. Mr. O'Malley stated that this was not generally believed. Mr. O'Malley was quite certain that during this period his office handled no project funding for Mr. Hunt. In response to specific question Mr. O'Malley stated that on Mr. Hunt's return to staff employment the projects and funding which stopped in July 1965 were again resumed. Mr. O'Malley was not aware of any project names or funding mechanisms or post-assignment accountings in connection with Mr. Hunt's activities in Madrid.

Frederick N. Evans
Lawrence J. Howe

--- Page 19 ---

14-00000

21 February 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Office of Finance Records - E. Howard Hunt

1. On the instruction of Mr. Steven L. Kuhn, Chief of Operations, PSI, the undersigned made an appointment for the afternoon of 20 February 1974 to interview Mr. William Caufield, Chief, Certification and Liaison Division, Office of Finance, and Mr. Joseph Hudson of Finance on the subject of Mr. E. Howard Hunt. At the outset of the interview Mr. Caufield advised the undersigned that instruction had been received from the Director of the Office of Finance, Mr. Thomas Yale, that discussion on the subject of Mr. Hunt was to be carried out only with the Office of the Inspector General. Mr. Caufield stated that he had informed Mr. Yale of the requested interview and had received this instruction with the suggestion that the undersigned contact Mr. Yale directly with any inquiry.

2. Accompanied by Mr. Caufield, the undersigned briefed Mr. Yale on the nature of the request and identified the "Task Force" effort being undertaken by the Office of Security in concert with the Offices of the Inspector General and Legislative Counsel. Mr. Yale responded that he recognized the legitimacy of the inquiry. Mr. Yale explained that subsequent to initiation of the complete audit being undertaken by Mr. Quinn of the Audit Staff, the Deputy Director for Management and Services, Mr. Harold L. Brownman, had requested the Office of Finance to discontinue their investigation of Mr. Hunt to avoid duplication. Mr. Yale added parenthetically that it was the nature of Finance Officers not to leave a job half done and that an "informal" inquiry into Mr. Hunt's financial records had nevertheless continued at a more subdued pace.

E2 IMPDET
CL BY 011698

--- Page 20 ---

14-00000

3. A review of the circumstances surrounding Mr. Hunt's conversion to Contract Type A employment and assignment was then undertaken by Messrs. Yale, Caufield, Hudson and the undersigned. The contract and payroll files of Mr. Hunt were reviewed for possible indications of the nature of the operational activity undertaken in Madrid. A review of travel vouchers indicated that Mr. Hunt and his family made accountings indicating departure from Washington, D. C., on 5 August 1965 with an arrival in Madrid, Spain, on 16 August 1965. The costs of this travel were charged to the budget of the Western Hemisphere Division, Deputy Directorate for Plans, Madrid Station Support account. A subsequent accounting summarized PCS travel expenses and included a payment for apartment rental for 16, 17 and 18 August 1965 with a payment in the amount of $125 to Mr. F. Reid Buckley for this purpose.

4. It was determined that an allottee bank account in Mr. Hunt's name had been established at the Riggs National Bank of Washington. All salary and other non-operational reimbursements were made to Mr. Hunt through sterile check to this account. An operational account was established for Mr. Hunt with the Chase Manhattan Bank of New York City. A review of all payments made to Mr. Hunt through the Chase bank account through Mr. Hunt's operational advance subsidiary account, or 1442 account, had been made. There was no record of any operational accounts or advances being processed through this channel. Mr. Yale stated that this fact defined his concern. He felt that it was inconceivable that Mr. Hunt could have undertaken operational activity without some transfer of or accounting for funds. To date, no such records have been developed. No reference to a project or project digraph or operational FAN number has been located. All expenses connected with Mr. Hunt identified to date were charged to the Madrid Station Support. A review made of Madrid Station records has not indicated any "Developmental and Target of Opportunity (DTO)" funds or "Other Operational Activity (OOA)" funds expended by or on behalf of Mr. Hunt. These two accounts would normally be the source of operational funding not charged against a specific project activity.

G8237/SENSITIVE

--- Page 21 ---

14-00000

5. A review of all of the travel vouchers on record for Mr. Hunt during this period also failed to identify a project. In addition to the PCS and return vouchers, two other accountings are on record. One accounting covered a trip by the entire Hunt family to Paris "for the renewal of visas." A second voucher covered a TDY trip from Madrid to Washington with return to Madrid made by Mr. Hunt from 5 January to 3 January 1966. The voucher states in the space provided for the citation of the travel order number "no travel order." The accounting was approved and signed by Mr. Thomas Karamessines, then Deputy Director for Plans. No justification or statement of purpose for this TDY was given on the accounting.

6. Mr. Yale determined that further review of possible sources or identification of operational funding was in order. Mr. Yale gave instructions that the entire 1442 advance account of Mr. Hunt be reviewed for other possible channels of funding outside of the New York Chase account. After discussion, it was agreed that particular attention be taken to any items connected with publishing or book royalties. Mr. Yale noted that the royalty offset waiver provision amended to Mr. Hunt's contract was, in his experience, somewhat unusual.

7. Mr. Yale was informed by the undersigned of the intention to interview Mr. Edward Ryan, currently Chief, Division D, who was at the time of Mr. Hunt's Madrid assignment, Deputy Chief of the Western Hemisphere Division. Mr. Yale suggested that Mr. Davis Powell also be interviewed. The undersigned informed Mr. Yale that this had been done and briefed Mr. Yale on the generally negative results of the interview. Mr. Yale then recommended that Mr. Sam Halpern be interviewed. Mr. Yale noted that Mr. Halpern had been an assistant to Mr. Desmond Fitzgerald when the latter was Chief, Western Hemisphere Division and had accompanied Mr. Fitzgerald when he became Deputy Director for Plans. Mr. Yale recalled that subsequent to Mr. Fitzgerald's passing that Mr. Halpern remained on the staff and acted as an Executive Officer for Mr. Thomas Karamessines. Mr. Yale stated that from his experience, Mr. Karamessines would have delegated all the arranging of "details" surrounding an assignment such as Mr. Hunt's to Mr. Halpern. Mr. Yale offered the parenthetical observation of his surprise at what he interpreted to be reticence to date to interview Mr. Halpern.

--- Page 22 ---

14-00000

SENSITIVE

8. The undersigned assured Mr. Yale that he would be informed of any information identifying any possible project activity developed in subsequent investigation. Mr. Yale stated that any information in this area would greatly facilitate the job of checking computerized financial records.

Lawrence J. Howe

--- Page 23 ---

14-00000

CHASE MANHATTAN BANK ACCOUNT

Check No. Date Payee Amount

8 20 October, 1965 Unknown $ 1,650.00
(2 months rent as deposit plus 1 month in advance at $550 per month. Substantiated by lease)

9 26 November, 1965 Casa Guggenbuhi 69.34
(for storage of trunks during 3 mos. temporary housing)

10 10 December, 1965 Security Storage Co. $ 1,070.82
(final destination charges per attached invoice. Insurance charge of $1.00 is personal expense.)

Expenses
November 18, 1965 Flowers for Sra. de Max Borrell Ptas. 150
December 20, 1965 Dinner at House of Ming. Ptas. 2250
Ex-Bolivian Ambassador and wife.
(Per my letter of 21 December, 1965)

--- Page 24 ---

14-00000

SERVICES OTHER THAN PERSONAL Terence. S. CRABANAC

DESCRIPTION OF EXPENDITURE ATTACH RECEIPTS AND OTHER SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS

18 Nov 1965 Flowers for Sra. de Max Borrell. Pesetas 150 @ 60/$1.00 $2.50
20 Dec 1965 Dinner at House of Ming. Ex-Bolivian Ambassador and wife. Pesetas 2250 @ 60/$1.00 - $37.50-*
* For operational security reasons a receipt was not obtained. (Credit the 1.2 advance account.)

I CERTIFY THAT THE DISBURSEMENTS ITEMIZED ABOVE WERE NECESSARILY MADE BY ME IN THE CONDUCT OF OFFICIAL BUSINESS OF A CONFIDENTIAL, EXTRAORDINARY, OR EMERGENCY NATURE. THAT I HAVE NOT NOR WILL I BE RE-IMBURSED THEREFOR FROM ANY OTHER SOURCE. AND THAT THIS CLAIM AND ATTACHMENTS ARE TRUE AND CORRECT.

(See true name attachment)

I CERTIFY FUNDS ARE AVAILABLE APPROVED APPROVED
CHARGE FAN ACCOUNT NO.
6-2282 6136-1347 (code 3)
AUTHORIZED SIGNATURE SIGNATURE OF APPROVING OFFICER
DATE DATE
14 Feb 66 WE/BF ADDP
CERTIFIED FOR PAYMENT OR CREDIT
SIGNATURE OF CERTIFYING OFFICER
DATE
2/25/66

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF OFFICE OF FINANCE

DESCRIPTION-ALL OTHER ACCOUNTS 13.33
DESCRIPTION
ADVANCE ACCOUNTS 13-27

STATION CODE REC. APT. NO. OBLIG. REF. NO. PO PAY OR LIQ. GENERAL LEDGER ACCT. NO. EMP. RD. COST FAN ACCOUNT SYMBOL
CRABANAC CCS ENE RABANAC TAS. PROJECT NO.
1881 22824 58/2282 136100 COOEYR 3 601.0 6:1:361347
3681.011361347 144.2

DATE SIGNATURE OF PAYEE
SIGNATURE OF AGENT
RECEIPT FOR FUNDS RECEIVED
PAYMENT RECEIVED IN THE AMOUNT OF
DATE SIGNATURE