Okay, I have compared the two OCR versions and created a combined, cleaned-up version below, formatted as markdown.

Thos 104-10305-10005 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

23 August 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

FROM: Bruce L. Solie
Chief, Security Analysis Group

SUBJECT: NAGELL, Richard Case
#264 170

1. This memorandum identifies those Office of Security files which were reviewed by House Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA) staff members in conjunction with the HSCA's investigation into the deaths of President John F. Kennedy and Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.

2. Under procedures established with the HSCA, certain items of information were not reviewed by HSCA staff members. These items were placed in envelopes, sealed, appropriately identified, and put back into the security file prior to HSCA review. Office of Security personnel reviewing these files should maintain the integrity of each envelope below so that interested parties may know what was and was not reviewed by HSCA staff members.

3. In some instances, the above files contain material marked in the lower right-hand corner with a green circular dot. This mark should alert Office of Security personnel to the fact that this material was located and placed in the file at the time of the HSCA review and was seen by an HSCA staffer(s). This material should not be removed from the file.

4. Attached to this memorandum is a review sheet which identifies the name of the HSCA reviewer(s) and the date of his review.

5. Questions regarding the above procedure and/or the HSCA's review should be directed to the Security Analysis Group.

REVIEWED BY FBVJFK TASK FORCE
9/27/98

RELEASE IN FULL
RELEASE IN PART
TOTAL DENIAL

Bruce L. Solie
Attachment

---

13-00000

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME:
NAGELL, Richard Case
264-170

INCLUSIVE DATES:
1958-1975

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:
ROOM: 46-13

DELETIONS, IF ANY
Five Sealed ENVELOPES.

DATE RECEIVED
05/Saq

DATE RETURNED

REVIEWED BY
(PRINT NAME)

SIGNATURE OF
REVIEWING OFFICIAL

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.

---

13-00000

Registered Mail
August 12, 1975

Ms. Penelope Grenoble, Editor
Los Angeles Free Press
5850 Hollywood Boulevard
Los Angeles, California 90028

Dear Ms. Grenoble:

This letter is in response to the distortions and outright falsities printed about me in the article written by William W. Turner, titled
BANK ROBBER, 'MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE': LINKED TO JFK ASSASSINATION PROBE, which appeared in the July 25-31 edition of the Los Angeles Free Press.

I request that the Free Press either print a retraction of such lies and distortions or publish this letter.

Mr. Turner, who spent ten years as a Special Agent of the FBI, is not unfamiliar to me. He has authored similar articles, both during my imprisonment in the United States and while I was detained in the German Democratic Republic, in which he knowingly and purposefully cited numerous lies about me. He has proved himself adept at putting words in my mouth and misquoting his sources of information to lend credence to his major untruths, a skill he probably developed while serving with the Bureau's intelligence-security division. His recent claims cause me to wonder whether or not he ever left the FBI.

Professor Richard H. Popkin, from whom Mr. Turner obviously collected much of his latest baloney, is a character that I feel should either purchase a hearing aid or consult a psychiatrist. Each of my so-called discussions with him (all but one occurred over the telephone) were duly tape-recorded by me, and if he did in fact assert what Mr. Turner has attributed to him about me, then he too is a liar.

I am listing the following facts in rebuttal to the Turner-Popkin "fables":

The "papers" that I "carried" when arrested did not show me to be a "decorated hero of the Korean War," nor did they reveal anything about "a career in Army intelligence." More to the point, the documents found in my possession and under my control (some of which were returned to me only last year by the FBI) ensured my incarceration for a longer period than I had anticipated. They also guaranteed my being held practically incommunicado for many months (for eleven months I was not even permitted to read a newspaper), not to mention the curtailment of my most basic constitutional safeguards.

My contacts with Lee Harvey Oswald did not entail any "friendship," nor were they effected for the purpose of establishing rapport.

After my acquittal (in 1968, not in 1967) I did not "drop from sight,"

---

13-00000

as Mr. Turner, the FBI and the CIA damn well, know.

I have never stated to anybody, either verbally or in writing, that in 1963 I was an agent for the CIA, although in 1974 I did state, under oath, that I thought I had been functioning for the CIA during part of 1963. Mr. Turner is also aware that less than two months after President Kennedy's death FBI agents confronted me with their suspicion that I had "acted as an unregistered agent for a foreign power," inferring that I was a spy for one of the Cuban intelligence services (several years later the CIA, through one of its "former" case officers, accused me of having been a Soviet spy; still later, one FBI agent suggested that I had worked for the Chinese).

The registered letter that was dispatched at my instance to FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover in September 1963 (not necessarily on the 13th) revealed sufficient details to warrant an immediate investigation (if not the arrest) of Lee Harvey Oswald and two Cuban refugees. I certainly "assumed" that some "action" would be taken by the FBI.

I was not the least bit "frantic" about anything in September 1963. I did not set foot inside the Republic of Cuba during that month. To my knowledge I have never talked to any "Castro aides." The main distinction between some American intelligence officers that I knew and hired killers were the procedures utilized in murdering their victims and/or the methods used to disassociate themselves and the U. S. government from their crimes.

I had no fear of being implicated "in the planned assassination" at the time of my arrest or prior thereto.

The two letters that I mailed to James L. Rankin, General Counsel to the Warren Commission, were not sent through "private channels." They were sent through proper jail authority.

I have never claimed that I "squirreled away a snapshot of (myself) with Lee Harvey Oswald taken in Jackson Square in New Orleans in 1963.

I have never stated that I am "willing to surface and tell (any) story to Congress" or to anybody. And I did not reveal any details about Mr. Oswald to Professor Popkin that are "new" or unknown to the FBI.

Richard C. Nagell

---

13-00000

Los Angeles Free Press July 25-31, 1975

BANK ROBBER, 'MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE' LINKED TO JFK ASSASSINATION PROBE

ED. NOTE: Recent exposure of what many consider to be improper CIA activity, both at home and abroad, has reawakened interest in decade-old challenges to official versions of the assassinations of John Kennedy, Robert Kennedy and Martin Luther King. As new facts also begin to emerge, Congress faces growing pressure to reinvestigate the JFK assassination.

What follows are the strange stories, disclosed here for the first time, of two figures Richard Case Nagell and Luis Angel Castillo long of interest to assassination researchers.

WILLIAM W. TURNER

SAN DIEGO, (PNS) On Sept. 20, 1963, a rangy man with a vertical scar on his forehead strade into the State National Bank in El Paso, Tex., and requested $100 in travelers' checks. Before the teller could comply, he whipped out a pistol and fired two shots into the ceiling. Then he waited to be arrested.

Police quickly realized that the suspect, Richard Case Nagell, 32, was no ordinary bank robber. Papers he carried showed that he was a decorated hero of the Korean War who had gone on to a career in Army Intelligence before being discharged with the rank of captain in 1959.

Why had he pulled the non-robbery?

Last week Dr. Richard H. Popkin, a philosophy professor at Washington University in St. Louis, stepped off a plane in the nation's capital lugging a briefcase containing documents illuminating the strange case of the man who shot a bank. Also crammed into the briefcase was a thick sheaf of papers relating to a bizarre "Manchurian Candidate" episode in the Philippines in 1967.

Both the El Paso and Manila incidents, Popkin said in an interview before leaving for Washington, were linked to the Dallas assassination of John F. Kennedy on Nov. 22, 1963. They would "crack the case wide open," he predicted.

The slight, bearded academician was stopping in Washington to present his discoveries to Attorney General Edward Levi and the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Activities before going on to a conference of learned philosophers.

The Second Oswald

Popkin is no stranger to the JFK investigation. In 1966 he published The Second Oswald, which chronicled several instances of someone impersonating the man later accused of slaying the president. At the time the book gained scant attention, but recently it was disclosed that as early as June 3, 1960, FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover himself wrote an interdepartmental memorandum citing evidence of an Oswald imposter. The FBI knew Oswald at that time as a defector to Russia, and, some conspiracy theorists believe, as a possible CIA agent.

Popkin said he had been in touch with Richard Nagell, now living near San Diego, and had learned about Nagell's friendship with Lee Harvey Oswald. Nagell has fascinated assassination researchers ever since an FBI report filed with the Warren Commission quoted him as saying he had met with Oswald in Mexico City and Texas. But the former intelligence officer had been inaccessible. He remained in prison for the El Paso caper until his conviction was reversed for insufficient evidence in 1967, after which he dropped from sight.

Nagell's Version

Nevertheless, researchers were able to glean some picture of Nagell's significance from his defense pleadings and cryptic letters from prison.

In August 1963 Nagell, working as a CIA agent, learned of a domestic plot to assassinate the president, involving Oswald and anti-Castro Cubans. He informed his CIA superior, but feared nothing would be done because he lacked details. On Sept. 13 he dispatched a letter warning J. Edgar Hoover of the plot but again assumed no action would be taken.

As Nagell understood it, Kennedy was to be shot in

(please turn to page 33)

---

13-00000

(continued from page 4)

Washington about Sept. 26 (as it turned out, JFK left Sept. 25 for a whirlwind tour of the West). Frantic, Nagell flew to Havana on Sept. 19 to see if Castro aides could shed light on the assassination plot, but the only advice they could offer was to execute Oswald in the hope that would stop the plan.

But Nagell left Cuba deciding that he "was an intelligence agent, not a killer." Flying to El Paso via Mexico City, he walked into the bank the next day for "the sole purpose of having myself arrested and detained by federal authorities" apparently fearing that his association with Oswald would implicate himself in the planned assassination.

Nagell was in the El Paso Jail when Kennedy was shot in Dallas two months later. He sent an offer to testify before the Warren Commission through "private channels" but received no reply.

Dedicated Leftist

In his recent discussions with Popkin, Nagell has revealed new details about Oswald. He first met Oswald, he said, in the late fifties at the U.S. naval base at Atsugi, Japan, where Oswald was a Marine Corps radar specialist. They became friends but didn't encounter one another again until August 1963 when Nagell learned of the plot against Kennedy.

Disputing claims that Oswald had ties with the CIA, Nagell believes that Oswald was a dedicated leftist who was duped by anti-Castro exiles involved in the conspiracy. Posing as Castro G-2 intelligence agents, the exiles wheedled Oswald into becoming a "fall guy" by playing on his Castro sympathies, painting Kennedy as anti-Castro and promising that he would be spirited to Havana after the assassination.

Nageli told Popkin he met with Oswald both in Mexico City and New Orleans, hotbeds of the anti-Castro movement.

"Nagell claims he has squirreled away a snapshot of himself with Lee Harvey Oswald taken in Jackson Square in New Orleans in 1963," Popkin asserted. "In the picture are two other men, both anti-Castro Cubans, who were pretending

If this photograph does exist it would lend credibility to Nagell's account. And Nagell is willing to surface and tell his story to Congress, Popkin says, provided protective conditions are met.

"Manchurian Candidate"

Popkin is also convinced that the Manila "Manchurian Candidate" case was connected to the JFK assassination. On March 2, 1967, a man named Luis Angel Castillo was detained by the Philippine National Bureau of Investigation after he had contacted left-wing Huk guerrillas. Questioned under truth serum and hypnosis, Castillo blurted out a tale of having been taken to a building in Dallas, Tex., the day Kennedy was shot, handed a rifle assembled from components hidden in a bowling bag and instructed to fire at a man in an open car sitting next to a lady. The signal to fire would be given by mirror flashes.

The story caused a brief sensation at the time. The Manila Times bannered: " 'JFK Plotter' In Manila!" Wire service dispatches to the United States said Castillo was a "Cuban-trained Communist agent" who hadn't shot because he heard that a man named Joe "had already shot the man in the open car." The story was so implausible that it quickly died.

Not long ago the hypnotist who conducted the interrogation of Castillo for the Philippine authorities arrived in this country under the name Vincente R. Sanchez. When Popkin took a look at his reports, his eyes popped.

The reports termed Castillo a "zombie" a hypnoprogrammed robot.

Double-Agent Network

Sanchez extracted Castillo's rambling story over a period of weeks. Castillo, then 28, was inducted around 1960 into a "Special Operations Group" which afforded him paramilitary training. In 1961 he participated in the Bay of Pigs invasion, as a pilot for the CIA. Thereafter he infiltrated a double-agent network, posing as a Communist in Venezuela and liquidating a Communist agent in Mexico.

In talking about the JFK assassination, Castillo despite some disjointed phrases was nevertheless able to describe in some detail

ordered, "They got him already. Let's get out of here." After the rifle was disassembled and stuffed in the bowling bag, he was hustled into the car which had brought him to the building. It stopped twice within blocks to pick up other men.

In 1967, according to Sanchez, Castillo was programmed to assassinate Philippine President Ferdinand Marcos after openly associating with the leftist Huks which would implicate them in the assassination. Popkin points out that this is a similar ploy to the one Nagell attributed to the anti-Castro Cubans' use of Oswald.

Until recently, the Castillo episode might have seemed a logcial impossibility. But the release of the Rockefeller Report, with its revelations about secret CIA projects to induce behavior modification in unsuspecting subjects, make the possibility of a "Manchurian Candidate" more than mere fantasy. (In the Robert Kennedy assassination, Dr. Bernard Diamond, who examined Sirhan Sirhan for the defense, testified that he believed Sirhan was hypnotized at the time of the shooting.)

Although the current whereabouts of Castillo is unknown, the Sanchez reports contain the names of six persons who supposedly ran his network, including the "control officer" and a woman who hypnotized him. Popkin's own investigations have shown that these people do exist.

Through Popkin their stories have now been passed on to the Attorney General and the Church Committee.

William Turner's latest book, The Cuba Project, the story of the CIA's secret war against Castro, will be published this fall by Houghton Mifflin.

---

13-00000

Memorandum

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO: Chief, Research Section/CB/PSD DATE: 18 April 1958

FROM: L. J. Dunn

SUBJECT: DUGAN, Emmet E. GF-6-371, page 22

As matter of information you may be interested in know- ing that the DDP initiated a request through the CIA Library to obtain all newspaper clippings which pertain to the death of Subject. Miss Barbara Wade (X 2457) advised on 18 April 1958 that the Library has articles from the Washington Post on March 14 & 16; New York Times on March 16; New York Mirror on March 17; and Christian Science Monitor on March 15.

L. J. Dunn

---

13-00000

GI Death Probe Turns to Poison

TOKYO, March 15 (AP) The undergoing psychiatric treatment.

United States Army said today As usual, the Army main-

one of its intelligence agents, tained silence on Dugan's work

whose body was found floating as an intelligance agent. But a

in Tokyo Bay, may have been spokesman termed Dugan "a

poisoned after fine soldier" and denied he had

handing his in- any psycopathic troubles. The

surance policy infantry veteran had finished

to his wife and Chinese language training last

disappearing. year and was assigned to an in-

M/Sgt. Em telligence unit for the first

met E. Dugan, time.

39, of Crafton, The Army said Dugan and his

Pa., left his wife, Maud, came to Tokyo Feb.

wife Feb. 4 in 4 by train from Camp Zama

a Tokyo hotel near Yokohama. The sergeant

with the policy had a pass to visit the capital.

and personal papers, saying: That night he left his wife. She

"If I don't return, you'll need said they planned to borrow

these." money on the policy.

Then, the Army said, Dugan

went to an Army camp north

of Tokyo, drew $40 in advance

pay and sold his typewriter to

a Japanese dealer for $22. He

stopped at the camp's noncom-

missioned officers' club, lost

$39 playing slot machines and

vanished. There was no wallet

on the body when it was found.

Dugan was first listed as

absent without leave but on

March 1 this was changed to

missing because the Army was

convinced he was absent

through no fault of his own.

Mrs. Dugan, a former Red

Cross worker he met in Korea

has returned to Crafton.

---

13-00000

GI HUNTED IN TOKYO
IN DEATH OF A GI

Special to The New York Times.

TOKYO, March 14 The Tokyo

police are reported to be search-

ing for an unidentified Chinese

and a Caucasian foreigner in

connection with the suspected

murder of a United States Army

sergeant assigned to intelligence

work.

A body in civilian clothes

found floating in Tokyo Bay

Wednesday was identified this

morning as that of M/Sgt.

Emmet E. Dugan, 39 years old,

who had been missing from his

intelligence unit in Yokohama,

twenty-five miles south of

Tokyo, since Feb. 4.

An autopsy conducted by United

States Army surgeons yester-

day sugested he had died before

he was thrown into the water,

Except for a bruise on the fore-

head, his body bore no marks

of external injury, but there

was no sea water in his lungs,

as there would have been had

he died of drowning.

Sergeant Dugan's wife re-

turned to the United States last

Monday by military aircraft. An

Army spokesman said he had

no "definite" knowledge that

the sergeant was engaged in

"investigative activity" at time

of his death. He could have

been a victim of robbery, he

added.

---

13-00000

Tokyo Bay Yields Body
Of GI Intelligence Aide

TOKYO, March 14 (Friday) Tokyo. The Center coordi-
UP-The body of a 39-year-old nates all United States Army
United States Army intelli- intelligence work in Japan.
gence agent, missing since The name of the victim
Feb. 4, has been found float- was not immediately released.
ing in Tokyo Bay, the Army Japanese newspapers quoted
said today. police as saying the sergeant
The Army added it was possible that the agent was investigating Communist
had been murdered. activities in Japan at the time
The body, fished out of the of his disappearance, but the
Bay by Japanese policeman Army declined to confirm this.
on Wednesday, had been ten- The Army spokesman said
tatively identified as that of a preliminary autopsy indi-
a master sergeant attached to cated the man was dead be-
the Intelligence Support Cen- fore he entered the water.
ter at Camp Zama, near

---

13-00000

SECRET

EXTENSION

17 April 1970

FORM 610 USE PREVIOUS [1] SECRET [1] CONFIDENTIAL [1] INTERNAL [] UNCLASSIFIED
1 JUL 61 EDITIONS
USE ONLY

---

13-00000

WILLIAM R. MARTIN
COUNSELOR AT LAW
INTERNATIONAL TRADE MART
NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA

Richard C. Nagell
25 Grand Avenue
Elmhurst, Long Island
New York

Dear Mr. Nagell:

Registered letter
I have been
association with OSWALD (meaning
LEE HARVEY OSWALD) was purely
social and that he had met him in Mexico
City and in Texas" (CD 197). Another
when the prisoner was being led from court on January 24,
1964, he "made wild accusations to newspaper reporters, accusing the FBI of not
attempting to prevent the assassination of President Kennedy..." (CD 404).

---

13-00000

28 January 1970
Washington, D.C.

An editor of a trade journal, whom I first met while on
an intelligence assignment in Latin America, has urged me
for some time to make public the facts dealing with my
involvement in a conspiracy to murder the late Chief
Executive, John F. Kennedy, in 1963 and the circumstances
surrounding my arrest and imprisonment in the United States
and East Germany. For reasons that are more personal than
advisable I can think of little else that I would like to do
better. But with the copious amount of documentation and
background material on hand, that I feel should be adduced
to in any valid treatise of the subject, it would require
writing no less than a tome, an undertaking for which I am
hardly qualified. Then, too, there is a growing skepticism
on my part concerning the kind of reception that a topic of
this sort would elicit from a society long since inured to
violence, corruption and injustice. Still, after over six
years of relative silence, I've decided that I must say
something about all this, if only to answer the lies and
distortions concocted about me in the press. Thus, I have
compiled this small booklet, a throwaway, which may be
easily discarded at the whim of the reader. In it I've
taken the liberty to set forth a reproduction of one of the
least sanitized references to my case that has appeared in
the news media, an article printed last summer in the
OVERSEAS FAMILY, a weekly tabloid catering to U.S. service-
men in Europe. I have utilized this particular article as a
vehicle to tell a bit of my side of the story by writing an
addendum to it.

R. C. Nagell

---

13-00000

page 12

UNCLE SAM has given Richard Case
Nagell three Purple Hearts one
earned on Christmas Day and a medal
for heroism in combat.
But what this ex-Army counterspy and
alleged CIA undercoverman wants is that
Uncle keep a promise to locate his wife
and two small children.
The 38-year-old former officer hasn't
seen them since 1963.
Officials inside the Federal Govern-
ment most likely FBI and CIA agents
know where they are and deliberately
isolated him from his family, the tall, lean
chain-smoker claims.
Nagell became separated from his
Japanese-born wife Mitsuko Takahashi
and their children, Teresa, now 9, and Ro-
bert, now 8, when he was arrested for
robbing an El Paso, Tex., bank in Sep-
tember 1963.
He staged the robbery and immedi-
ately surrendered to the police, Nagell
claims, because he had refused to kill
Kennedy-assassin Lee Harvey Oswald and
was afraid he would be killed himself.
The ex-Army captain was convicted of
the crime and sent to Leavenworth, but
Mrs. Nagell was never told where he was.
Sinea then Nagell has been written
about in national American magazines
and has worked his way inside a politi-
cal prison in Communist East Germany
for the CIA.
Two major magazines intimated that
Nagell had been insane.
New Orleans district attorney Jim Gar-
rison allegedly interviewed Nagell three
times in his controversial probe of what
he called the plot to kill Kennedy.
However, despite all the publicity
about Nagell, no public mention has
been made of his charges that:
FBI special agents who questioned
Mrs. Nagell about her husband while he
was in prison said they didn't know
where he was;
The CIA used the promise of reunit-
ing Nagell with his family as part of the
incentive for him to undertake a one-man

I want to find my children'
Ex-Army spook who fingered Oswald claims Uncle Sam hides his family / by Thomas C. Lucey.

CIA assignment inside East Germany.
Nagell came to Europe in February
1969 on a hunch that the path to his fam-
ily started in West Berlin. In Zurich he was
almost killed, he says. In Barcelona, he
was watched. And in West Berlin he was
attacked in a side-street bar by two
strangers one of whom had been fol-
lowing him for two days and hit on
the top of his head so hard a molar
cracked in half.
Fearing that the next attacker might
murder him and reassured that the Gov-
ernment would finally keep its promise
this time, Nagell flew home to the United
States.
Now he's back where he started in
1963 when he tipped off the FBI that
Oswald was planning to assassinate Pres-
ident Kennedy.
Working through a source with access
to documents on the Nagell case, The
FAMILY has been able to reconstruct this
incredible story of the spy who couldn't
come in from the cold.
ICHARD CASE
Nagell first went
to work for the
CIA as an in-
formant in Au-
gust 1962.
"Some publications have
identified him as a CIA agent,"
the FAMILY source said. "But
Nagell never claimed to be a
CIA agent. For the year that
he worked off and on for the
CIA the first time, he was
never told what he was. But it
was in the capacity of an in-
vestigator or informant."
"Nagell had a good back-
ground for Investigative and
undercover assignments.
In the Army, he was a CIC
captain who worked in field of-
fices in the United States and
with the then super hush-hush
Field Operations Intelligence in
Japan and Korea.
He had made captain with a
battlefield commission during
the Korean War at the age of
22 possibly the youngest man
to earn that distinction. Nagell
served two volunteer combat
tours as an infantryman in Ko-
rea, signing up for the second
as soon as he returned to the
States from the first. It was in
Korea that he won the Bronze
Star and three Purple Hearts.
Copyright 1969, Thomas C.
Lucey. Reproduction in whole
or in part strictly prohibited
without the prior written per
mission of the author.
During a subsequent tour in
the Far East with the CIC and
FOI, Nagell met and married
his Japanese wife In the spring
of 1959. Being married to a
foreign national meant an
automatic removal from intel-
ligence work so Nagell decided
to leave the Army.
For two years he was a Cal-
ifornia state special investiga-
tor, working on fraud cases and
liquor violations.
In the summer of 1962 he left
that job to work for the CIA.
His last assignment was to
penetrate the Fair Play for
Cuba Committee, where he met
Oswald. Nagell also briefly in-
vestigated Oswald's Russian-
born wife Marisa.
Nagell considered Oswald
intelligent, "but some right-
wingers were using him by
feeding his ego. They made
him think he was a big man,
important. Oswald himself was
definitely a left-winger, lean-
ing toward Mao or maybe even
Castro. He wasn't pro-Moscow.
He hated the Russians.
"And when Oswald said he
was going to do something, you
knew he meant it."
In September Oswald told
Nagell, "We will kill him be-
fore the month is out."
The "we," according to Na-
gell, were Oswald and two Lat-.
Ins possibly Cubans who
belonged to anti-Castro organ
izations inthe United States.
"Him" was President Kennedy.
Nagell reported the threat to
a man known only as Bob, his
CIA contact. According to The
FAMILY's source, "Nagell's in-
structions were to take care of
Oswald, He told him he was an
intelligence man, not a killer,
and he couldn't kill Oswald.
"Threats were made to Na-
gell which indicated to him that
he had better do what he had
been instructed to do.
"Instead, he wrote about
Oswald's assassination plans to
FBI director J. Edgar Hoover
in Washington. Hoover didn't
reply, but Nagell didn't expect
to be arrested. He expected to be
held briefly for discharging a
firearm on Federally insured
property. By that time the as-
sassination would be over and
he'd be safe.
Apparently Nagell felt police
custody would keep him safe
from the CIA and from the
assassins. He feared the CIA
because he didn't "take care
of" Oswald. He feared the
assassins bécause he might be
considered one of them.
But the police held Nagell
longer than six days.
He was tried twice, in May
1964 and September 1966, for
attempted robbery with force
and violence and sentenced to
the maximum of 10 years.
"I was bum-rapped," Nagell
complained.
"The court instructed that
any attorneys retained by his
relatives would have to come
under the supervision and
control of court-appointed
attorneys," The FAMILY's
source said. "In effect, this de-
nied him counsel of his choice
all during prison."
As prisoner A-83286-L, Na-
gell was allowed to write to
only his sister and a friend.
He couldn't get an explan-
ation why he wasn't allowed
mail from or to his wife and
children. "They don't explain
to you in Leavenworth peni-

--- Page 30 ---

13-00000

