14-00000

104-10147-10301

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CABLE SEC

DISSEM BY: PER

TOTAL COPIES

RUN BY

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHI!!

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED

ACTION UNIT

ACTION #

RF.

FILE.

VR.

STAFF

BY

AT

T 325447

EIA549

PAGE 1 OF 2

IN 459495

TOR: 091001Z NOV 77

HAGUE 33077

SECRET 090945Z NOV 77 STAFF

CITE THE HAGUE 33277

TO: DIRECTOR,

WNINTEL RYBAT REAM SYMPATHIZER MHCOLOR

REF: ONHA-40412, 4 MAY 1977

1. SENSITIVE SYMPATHIZER SOURCE INDICATES THAT ON
3 OCTOBER WILLEM OLTMANS MADE APPOINTMENT MEET WITH
CUBAN AMBASSADOR, THE HAGUE. OLTMANS STATED HE GOING "TO
AMERICA ON 26TH" AND THAT HE " IS INDEED PREPARED TO GO
AT THE BEGINNING OF NOVEMBER AS ARRANGED".

2. DURING DISCUSSION, OLTMANS SAID HE ALSO HAD
VISIT SCHEDULED WITH RUSSIAN AMBASSADOR ROMANOV FOR
3 OCTOBER AND WANTED COMBINE TWO VISITS FOR SAME DAY.
OLTMANS WAS TOLD AN ATTEMPT BY CUBAN AMBASSADOR TO
SCHEDULE MEET WITH HIM DURING WEEK 25 SEPTEMBER HAD
BEEN UNSUCCESSFUL BECAUSE OLTMANS COULD NOT BE REACHED.
OLTMANS STATED HE HAD BEEN IN SOVIET UNION THEN.

3. ABOVE EVIDENCE OF OLTMAN'S CONTINUING CLOSE
CONTACT WITH CUBAN AND SOVIET DIPLOMATS AND HIS RECENT
TRAVEL TO THE USSR AND APPARENT CURRENT TRAVEL TO CUBA

SECRET 22225

---

14-00000

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY: PER

TOTAL COPIES

RUN BY

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHI!!

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED

ACTION UNIT

ACTION #

RF.

FILE.

VR.

STAFF

BY

AT

T 325447

EIA549

PAGE 2 OF 2

IN 459495

TOR: 091001Z NOV 77

HAGUE 33077

IS OF INTEREST IN VIEW HIS NOTORIOUS ROLE AT THE TIME
OF THE DEATH OF GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILD. LATTER WAS OF
INTEREST BOTH TO SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE
AND HOUSE ASSASSINATIONS SUBCOMMITTEE. IF HQS DEEMS
IT APPROPRIATE, NO STATION OBJECTION TO CONVEYING ABOVE,
WITH ADEQUATE SOURCE PROTECTION, TO PROPER CONGRESSIONAL
AUTHORITIES.

4. FILE: 281-155221, E2, IMPDET.

SUGGESTS ADD DISSEM TO:

SECRET
