```markdown
14-00000

104-10245-10000 [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

WURL

"El Medico y Usted"

1232
1256
1297
1324
1344
1382
1389
1399
1419
1450
1475
1500
1521
1567
1606
1675

Continuing

June 64
July 64
Aug 64
Sept. 64
Oct 64
Nov 64 (1-15)
Nov 64 (16-30)
Jan 65
Feb 65
Mar 65
Apr 65
May 65
June 65
July 65
Sept 65

$ 2,632.50
$2733.75
$ 2632.50
$ 2632.50
$2733.75
$ 1,923.75
$ 607.50
$ 1316.25
$ 1316.25
$ 1215.00
$ 1,417.50
$ 1,316.25
$ 1,316.25
$ 1,316.25
$ 1,316.25

Cashier's Check pd # 367218 $7,998.75
Cashier's Check pd # 369794
Cashier's Check pd # 376168 $ 1923.75
Cashier's Check pd # 382709
Cashier's Check #389049 $3138.75
Cashier's Check #393105 $ 1,083.00
Cashier's Check # 399858 $1,316.25
Cashier's Check #400704
Cashier's Check #408357
Cashier's Check # 412002

Josie H
64-6-2
64-7-2
64-8-2
64-9-2
64 12-2
65-1-2
65-2-2
65-4-2
65-5-2
65-6-2
65-7-2
65-8-2

Radio Aminica's
Concring
June 64 $ 1579.00
July 194 Amount $1450.50
"El Medier Cochin Check pd #367450
Viak"
Cez Sept 64 B.1460.50
Nov/die 69 $1064.57
Jan/7h65 $1060.50 J.. # 350892
fik Feb 45 $1060.50 01389048
Man 45 $ 1,053.00
Copr/May $ 1,063.50
My 71,012.50 Ju 393105
June/July $1,612.50 # 399854
Eu. July 12 $32.50 #405702

14-00000

Sergio Mauri
Perteneció a la Juventud Socialista
expezó a trabajar en el Fondo Esredial de Obras Publicas alrededor
del comienzo del Gobierno Autentico.
Al llegar el actual gobierno al poder el fué dejado cesante en
dicho lugar, por haber estado de acuerdo con la dictadura de
Batista, y haber colaborado con los distintos Directores que hubo
en dicho lugar.
Desconociendo por supuesto lo que el hubo de realizar despues.
El Sr. Guillermo Perez Fraga, que vive en el 820 N.W. 13 Ct. Apto.
puede ser localizado por el telefono 373 8122, puede dar
mas informes que yo.
Serien el tiene una intima amiga en esta ciudad que vive en el
630 K.E. 22 Tc. y tiene el telefono 379 8546, esta sabe de el
Ducho mas pues sabe que estuvo en China comunista y el Canada.
Tambien tiene una hermena aquí, y que se puede localizar at traves
de la persona anteriormente señalada.

14-00000

Charla con el profesor Agustín P. Pous
Posible un intercambio de
médicos de Cuba y España
Por JORGE COO
De in Reduccion de EL MUNDO
¡Lo mejor que he visto en cla de prensa que ofreció en
Cuba sen sus médicos!, asi re el salón de actos del Colegic
expresó el doctor Agustin Pe. Médico Nacional. El doctor!
dro Pons, eminente médico l'ons es ampliamente conoci
español, durante la conferen do en los grandes centros
sejo asisterciales de Europa, en
dorde en materia de Clinica
Médica es llamada con jus
ticia El Maestro. In sido ade
jmás, presidente del Instituto;"
Médico Farmacéutico y pre
sidente de la Academia de
Ciencias Melicas, siendo en la
jactualidad su presidente de
honor.
Actualmente se encuentra
de visita en nuestro pais.
acompañado por su auxiliar
docter Pedro Botet invita-
Jos por el Consejo Cientifi
dei Ministerio de Salud Pú.
blica y el Colegio Médico Na-
ma-icional.
A una pregunta sobre su
de impresion de nuestro sisema
Tina en la Pig 2. et. 2

14-00000

2-EL MUNDO, jueves 4 de febrero de 1965

Logra... Posible...

(Continuación de is in, Piginal!)
hospitalario, el trabajo de los
médicos y ha organizacion
asistencial en general, el doe

Continasein de to ta. Pagina
Troculer la dirigente re
solucionaris en el uso de la
bra, rifa de la Mition
Frente Nacional on Liberación
de Vietnam del sur, Va Porg for lons respondió. "Me es
Glang, y el peeretare genera muy fácil contestar a esa prej
del Comité de Hano de la Ugunta: la organizacion hosp
des MININD, Tomas Alvarez tavaria en Cuba responde plej
Comens Vo Dong itong re-namente a los tulados de
firiéndose a que no et celectatic23 del regimen To
brando en Vicinam det er lok
festejos del Aho Nuevo Lanar
"I calendario lunar de 1964)
termino muy mal para los an
y de 1965 empezó pear",
dito.
Explics después que durante
estos festejon se apical
ra hacer un bainhce n the ne
tividades realizadas en 1964
trazar a pane te vrullar ise
en 1965. Afirmó que ya los int
perialistas yashayos no so
ins que cerden la situación en
Vietnam el tur, kino el pue
o y el Frente Nacional de It
Leración.
En relación con la coupera!
ctn material que erti realizan
do Cuba en favor del puchlo
Pudvietnamita. Vo Pong Glane
expres que esa avind no mole
Ben'e irve a los danificades
Ufones, auto de estimulo
Dr. Agustin Pedro Puns
para acara lucha de like-do el mundo tiene cabida en
¡los hospitales, sin distinción'
zación.

Al terminar de hablar et defede clase Además, los centros
de la Misita, una joven com asistenciales estan bien equit
Fists le entregó un cuadro de pados, yo ina que cas con vie.
Julo, Antonio Mella en nomboriqueza, si no fuera porque es,saj
de todos los trabajadores de to parife un térming bur
ques".

aparte merecen los nar
MININD.
vo
Astieron al acto el embajari
dor da fepublica Demerarides de tos centros Nola
ra de Vietnam, sefior Nuyen, quiero que parez linja, persigue
tenge ripresión de que son See
Thank fla, y el viceministro de médicos de una gran cattura. Ma
Desarrollo Técnico, lagenera con una gran sed de aprender. Ma
Tirso W. Ssenz. (Reporto: Hal Son médicos que están al co-ren
mundo Rodriguez).
Cuidarán...
Irriente de las mejores técnicas Arr
modernas, y sobre toto ste per
en ellos el entusiasmo. No ca
The duda que todo esto convenign
ga en un mejor servicio. Helpot
(Continurción de la I. Página de decirles que en ningun lado to
#scolares recibirán instrue visto apatia, sino un coro na
de gente en el que todos vibra-bén
ciones sobre suelos, tipos de san tengan entendido que pru
césped, plantas ornamentales, un cuerpo de médicos que as r
*. co.no nociones's.ents su profesion, serà Cen-Rat
tro de poco uno de los mejores del
de paisajes aplicado a la jar-
del mundo. Todo esto lo puedo Sar
dinures

14-00000

mejor que he visto de coba,
snifices'.
Lox equipos de abajo e di
riditan en interiores y exteth
Interiores starin for.
A las preguntas sobre
mad por al
d'arte inhi
arty ten arin te temperati
1.1 el a
mite
eu enter at
exes extitite
alumnes de in
'
p
Tie Caly :
fent. Pots entér posts
dey
pluriel La disynente
forma: An ab
info tra
camino a to interoi
Señal quel
Jus quthu yicantha cientifico
sto y tent. An como tarea pars cato Cabs y España tie-i
fundan.ental in de ir al entenen una gran facilidad, y e
de las áreas vendes en la zona que ambos paltes hablan d
en que se encuentre chleada la lengua con
exuch.
Porita salud
TRASMISION DE
ENFERMEDADES
INFECCIOSAS
La trasmisión de una
bacteria que carra enfer
medades desde una perso.
na enferma a una persona
sana, se efectúa de diver.
tos mados.
Elaqua transporta grás
cantidad de bacterias Por
eso hay que hervir el agua
La candela mata los mi.
crebiot.
La leche puede trans-
portar también bacterias
Eggnas. Hierva tam-
teche.
Los alimentos también
purea transportar borte.
tas pató jenas Proteja los
alimentos.
En ocasiones intervie.
nen los insectos Por ejem
pło, una mesta es capaz
de cargar hasta diez ini.
Hones de microbios Y al
pasarse en el cuerpo del
miño, o en el tete, o en los
fumeres, las infecta. El
mosquito Aedes Beqyrti
puede trasmiter 1 febre
amari. Quos asimales
como el perro y el cata
pueden trasmitir la rabia
AGUA Y JABON
כי
rn-
Siguiendo el curso de la
tresiata, el cientifico español,
najo: "No he tenido tiempo.
de ver nada sobre medicins ru
ral, per estoy enterado de qualZip
an han hecho nachos hospita
en rurales y "comarcales y cl
jque se le está prestando una as
gian atarción a la asistencia.dr
mellen en el rampo".
תי
bre un posible torno a 11.
Cuba, el Dr. Pons respon 16:
Piena volver en un plazo muzich
breve. Sobre esto he habladol
con el lecistro y el Minist
tro del MINSAP y creo que he co
mos Hegado a un acuerdo".
A la preguntas sobre au t
bro "Clinien Médica", que eat
uando emun libro de texto enig
nuestra Universidad, Alea "Dep
mi libro no parto lubiar porque's
fis como al elogio to un padre ri
al hij, per les dir que no ea
beninin solamente, sino quel
conmigo elaboran mia do 45 •
media. Hay muchos librua quelet
tratan sobre mismo, sobre
todo, libre Aurticanos: Recor
Cato alá pria y S9020-11
alimente, cun de
ualidad: neotros, por el con-ide
traro, non runth. anal p
mente para hacerle mejors, M
eren que ha esto debe au Axito
y
Resperto a spital Squa...
trien, Dr. Pone fee: "Eato
culinana la obra médica que ro
ha hecho en Cuba. Ya no puede
er mejor. Be parede i, p
perir. Ka un run-to
laparte, es quizis la ora maai h
tortunada de la Revalalón.com i
rexpecto a dicin})
Los reporteros quisieron a
d
ber la pirión del doctor Patrol
12.
Horet, avar el doctor Ponsi
neerea de la medicina en Cuba le
A la que el aludido contest:"|
ne pede agregar a loi".
cho por el Dr. Pons, pero hayo
algo quat quisera decir: n'e
este viaje he aprendido ser;
humile, puesto que yo añédien
Joten, como muchos otros pe
tecle: bieno, voy a Cuba, doy
La conterencias y ya. Pero
después de visita varios hospi
tales, después de ver un lugar
com el Jepartamento de Quin
mic Endoct nologies del
[pital "Fajardo", uno debe aq
er un acto de contricion y re-ti
conocer que acuda, tubin
venimos a aprender".
cl

14-00000

Red R
J
El Neder
AMBUD-3
30 Sept 1965

14-00000

RADIO NEW YORK WORLDWIDE
Worldwide Communication Center
Four West 58th Street, New York 19, N.Y.
PL 2-3922

July 22, 1965

Dade County Medical Society
Miami
Florida

Gentlemen:

Enclosed are four (4) copies of a new Broadcast
Agreement reflecting your changed programs effective last
May.

Please sign all four copies and return to this
office for countersignature.

We shall then return two (2) completely signed
copies for your files.

Very truly yours,

Richard W. Grefe
Vice President

RWG/fs
Enc. 4

AUDIO-VISUAL COMMUNICATIONS WORLDWIDE

14-00000

RADIO NEW YORK WORLDWIDE

BROADCAST AGREEMENT

RADIO NEW YORK WORLDWIDE, 4 WEST 58TH ST., NEW YORK, 19, N. Y.
A DIVISION OF INTERNATIONAL EDUCATIONAL BROADCASTING CORPORATION

Date: July 22, 1965
Contract No.: 765-11

AGREEMENT between Dade County Medical SOCIETY
called "Agency" for broadcasting over International Radio Station WRUL programs, announcements
and/or participations, as scheduled below on behalf of
Dade County Medical Society, Miami, Florida
(name and address)
called "Advertiser" to advertise Educational Medical Program
and Radio New York Worldwide, a division of International Educational Broadcasting Corporation
called "Station", subject to the standard conditions on the back hereof and any special conditions set
forth below or attached hereto.

Target Area Caribbean
Language Spanish
Approximate Time of Broadcast 8:01 PM (E.S.T.)
Length of Broadcast 15 Minutes Days Mon.Wed.Fri. Times per Week 3
Starting Date May 17, 1965 Ending Date till forbid Total Broadcasts
Program material arrangements (check appropriate boxes):
Live or Recorded
Furnished by agency or By Station
Additional Instructions:

This contract may be cancelled by either party upon four (4)
weeks written notice.

Rates

NUMBER OF STATION OTHER TOTAL PRICE
BROADCASTS CHARGE TALENT LINE SERVICE RE-BROADCAST CHARGES
Per Week 101.25 303.75
Per Contract

ACCEPTED:

Date By Agency or Advertiser
Date By Radio New York Worldwide
Division of Interi.ational Educational Broadcasting
Corporation

14-00000

STANDARD CONDITIONS OF RADIO NEW YORK WORLDWIDE CONTRACT FOR BROADCASTING

1. PAYMENT AND BILLING.
(a) Time Payments under this contract are to be received by STATION at the
address specified on STATION bills on or before the 15th of moth following
that in which broadcasting is done. Payment is to be made in United States funds,
ret, payable at a New York City bank, unless specifically provided to the contrary
on the face hereof.
(b) Materiality. In all cases date of Ferment is material. I STATION fails to
receive timely payment, or if ADVERTISER c AGENCY crest is, in STATION's
reasonable opinion, impaired, STATION in its own d'strate, mather cancel
this contract under sub-parag aph (a) or change the terms of mest for further
broadcasts under this contract.
(c) filling. STATION will bill AGENCY af intervals following broadcasting.

2. TERMINATION.
(a) Broadcasts Other Than Participations and Spot Announcements. If this con-
tract calls for broadcasts of time periods other than cations and spot
announcements, the entire contract may be terminated by either party effective at
the end of any 13 wask cycle of broadcasting hereunder spas ring the other
party not less than 2d days' prior written notice.
(b) Participations and Spot Announcements. If this contract cas for broadcasts
of participations and spot announcements the entire contract of arts thereof may
be terminated by either party at any time by giving the other party not lase
than 14 days prior written notice.
(c) Claires. If STATION is notified of any claims caused by on out of, or
resulting from any broadcast hereunder, whether in connect. program mate-
ral furnished by AGENCY or STATION, o. otherwise, and to 1 cams deemed
substantial in S'ATION's reasonable opinica, STATION mar. by ring written
notice to AGENCY, terminate this contract as to any or all fats.
(d) Effect of Termination. If AGENCY terminates this under sub-
paragraph 2(a) or (b), AGENCY will pay STATION at earned for broadcasts
contracted for to and including the date of termination. I STAT ON terminates
this contract under paragraph 2, as to any or all broadcasts servader,
such terminal on shall be without penalty of shot rate, AGENCY shel
have the benefit of the same discounts that it would have arse STATION had
not so terminated and this contract had continued through meest broadcast
scheduled I STATION terminates this contract under p2(b) or (c)
to less than all of the breadcuits scheduled herands ACE may, upos
ing STATION written notice within seven days after STATION rates, terminate
this contract in its entirery simultaneously with the effect ve deres STATION's
notice, in which event such termination shall also be without permits of short rate.

3. EFFECT OF BREACH.
(a) By Agency. STATION reserves the right to cancel this content of any time
upon default in the timely payment of bill, failure to furaian se
aceptabie
to STATION, or other material breach of the terms hereof. Upense cancellation
ail charges accrued hereunder and cot paid shall become nasty due and
peseble, and ACENCY shall also pay, as liquidated damages. cet sum aquai to
that which AGENCY would have been obligated to pay had
the attactive
Cats of STATION's cancellation, given notice of terminat to sub-
paragraph 2(a) or (b), rass any net sum which STATION acres for the
sale of the same airfima.
(b) By Station. In the event of a material breach by STATION in performing
this contrast, AGENCY reserves the right to cancel this c on such
cancellation STATION shall pay, a liquidated damages
of to the
actual non-cancelable out-of-pocket costs necessarily incurred by AGENCY through
cancellation of this contract. STATION'S liability, however
exceed the
not me costs involved for the unexpirea and non-cancel at of this
contract, that is, STATION shall not be liable for any sumes the sum
of the net time cherges involved had STATION, once date of
AGENCY's cancellation, given notice of termination pursuant oph I(a)
vs (b).
Failure to broadcast covered by paragraph 4 or 5 that be deemed
a breach of this contract.
(c) Limitation of Liability. In the event of cancellation under paragraph 3.
neither party shall be liable to the other otherwise than as icecfad in this part-
graoh and in paragraph 8.

4. FAILURE TO BROADCAST.
if as the result of public emergency or necessity,
order, force
majeure, restriction imposed by law. Act of God, laber die mecanice break-
down, or any cause, similar or dissim lar, beyond STATION control,
STATION falis to broadcast all or part of any program, participannounce-
ment contracted to be broadcast heres.der, STATION shalt be except
to adust its time charges as hereinafte: stated: (a) it
schedu ed
broadest is performed, a later broadcast or the omitted program
peton
or announcement shall be made at a reasonably satisfactory
car and time.
and if no reasonably satisfactory sustitute day and time are as the time
charges for the omittea broadcast shall be we ved. (b) of schedu
broadcast, but not alt tharest, amitted. STATION shall atte a pro rata reduc.
tion in the time charges; or if a commercial portion of a broad is om Hed,
a credit in the same propert on to the time charges which the red commar tal
portica bears to the total commercial portion of the broadcast, ter greater.
In any such case of total or partial failure, AGENCY that have we benefit of
the sems discounts which would have earned if the affected bread been
performed in full.

5. PRE-EMPTIONS FOR PROGRAMS OF PUBLIC INTEREST OR
SIGNIFICANCE.
(a) Conditions of Substitution.. STATION shall have the right to el any
broadcast or port on thereof covered by this contract nordest any
program or event which, in its absolute discretion it deems to to cf babe interest
or signifcante In any such case STATION will no fy AGENCY advance if
reasonably possible, but where such rotice cannot reasonably be gives STATION
will noy AGENCY within a reasonable time after such schede broadcast that
AGENCY's broadcast has been pre-empted.
(b) Adjustment. I AGENCY and STATION cannot agree scen • saifactory
substitute day and 1 me the broadcast time so pre-empted be ceemed can
celled without ecting the rates, discounts, or rights provided and contract,
except that AGENCY shall not have to pay STATION any cha gas for the canceled
broadcast.

6. RATE PROTECTION.
Station reserves the right at any time or times to change the rates discounts
and charges hereunder to conform to any rate card issued at the date of this
contract. AGENCY shall have the best of any decrease in te sums
payable hereunder beginning as of the effect-vaate of such rate card but no
increase in said aggragate sums shall be app: cable until twee meets from the
effective date of such rate card. The protection against rate app. cable
only to broadcast schedules contracted for prior to the effective date of such rate
rard and in effect or starting within thirty days after the effective date of such
tate card pro dot that interruption or lapse of schedule not attributable to
SATION shall automat cally terminate protection.

7. PROGRAM MATERIAL.
(a) Agency Desseability Unless otherwise noted on the face of this contract,
att program material including talent and commercial announcements, shall to
furn.hed by AGENCY, and all expenses connected with the de..very thereof to the
STATION and return the afrom, f to directed, shall be paid by AGENCY. AGENCY
at deliver complete music cu sheats for all musical compositions designated by
AGENCY for broadcast and all other program material not less than 36 hours
Cactusive of Saturdays, Sundays and holidays) in advance of broadcast.
(b) Approval of Material. STATION may, in its discretion, reject any musicat
compositions, and may reject recordings, the technical quality of which does not
comply with STATION standards. All live ram material to be broadcast
hereunder shall be adequately rehearsed, and ali live and recorded material to
be broadcast hereunder shall conform the STAT: N's program and operating
policies, STATION fabor contracts, and the public interest, including specifically,
but not limited to the Federal Communications Commission regulations requiring
that international broadcast service shall reflect the culture of this country and
shell promote international good will, under tanding and cooperation Program
materal and cerformer, furnished by AGENCY are subiect to STATION's approval
ard STATION mas arercise cuntinuing right to reject or cause AGENCY to edi
such matant or replace performers to the extent STATION deems necessary to
conform to the standards specified in this sub-paragraph
ich Right to Substitute. Should STATION fail to receive satisfactory
program material when required hereunder STATION may notify AGENCY, and
STATIC rece vas satisfactory program material within 24 hours after such
polce is given, STATION shall have the ight to adil ary program material
received and broader the same as edited, or to produce substitute broadcast,
and STATION will be paid for such edited or substitute broadcast its regular
charges for the breast, plus a reasonable charge for the editin, or production
of a substitute brescast.

8. INDEMNIFICATION.
(a! By Agency. AGENCY will hold and savo STATION harmless against any
and say and expers, including attorneys' fees, resating from the broad-
cast of programs of programm material prepared. produced or furnished by
AGENCY, including musical compositions, excepting such liability as may result
from the roadcast on AGENCY-produced broadcasts of material furnished by
STATION.
(b) Er Station. STATION will hold and save AGENCY harmless against all
such abity and expense, including attorneys' teos, on STATICH-proJuced
broadcasts, arcepting cry such l'ability as may result from the broadcast of
commercial and other material furnished by AGENCY. la ada fior, STATION
will hold and save AGENCY harmless with respect to material furnished by
STATION for AGENCY-produred broadcasts.

9. INCREASED COSTS.
If at any time or times under any collective bargaining agreement(s) by which
STATION is bound or to which STATION adheres, or under any tow, foreign or
Semestic, the costs of any service, material or personnel furnished by STATION
hereunder is increa49 6. the result of the establishment of or chargo in
minimum comperta on sayable to personnel, or faces, assessmons, barefits or
contributions payed' by STATION, AGENCY shall par STATION the amount of
each such increase in costs as of the enactive date thereof.

10. GENERAL
(4) Broadcast Times. STATION will perform the broadcasts covered by this
contract on the days and at the approximate hourly times provided as face
of this contract. STATION rezerves the right at any time or times sa changs
the dogs and/or hours of broadcast, in the vent of changes by the Federal
Cocations Common in allocation of hours and/or sequencies In such
great nutcallceptable alternate days and/or hours shall be substituted; if,
howave the times offered by STATION IS AGENCY are unacceptable
to AGENCY. AGENCY shall has the right to cancel upon givia STATION
written notice the ecf, and such termination shall be without penalty of short
rate Times mentioned thall be those in effect at STATION on the respective
days of broadcast STATION may deduct from any period of five (5) minutes
or longar not more than ty-five (35) seconds for Station bedak prposes.
(b) Handling of Property and Mail. STATION shall exercise no mai precautions.
but shall assume ro tab lity for loss of or damage to program materal or other
property furnished by AGENCY in conn. ction with broadcasts hereunder. STATION
will not accept or process mal, correspondence or telephone ce is in connection
with broadcasts except after its prior approval, and in approved, at the so'e
risk of AGENCY and bect to reimbursement by AGENCY for all expense
incurred.
(c) Relationship of Advertiser and Agency. If this contract is with recognized
advertising c
acancy commiss n o 15% will be allowed, and as
provided on the face of contract. AGENCY making and shell perform this
contract as agent for a ted p.incipal, . the sponsor ramed ca the face
of th's core
ADVERTISER defauts in the cerformance of any obligation
to STATION here AGENCY by arcting tha contract wives of
such detaut and agrees to be liable, jointly and severally with ADVERTISER, for
any and all clade's demands cr obligations owing to STATION hereunder.
It this contract me directly with a sponsor, references to AGENCY shall
apply to ADVERTISER,rept that no agency commission with be al oved.
(d) Assignment and Waver AGENCY shall not without the written consent
of STATION signs contract or any of AGENCY's rights hereunder STATION
may not be to broadcast hereunder for the benefit of any onser other
the ADVERTISER need on the face of this contract, or to broadcast hereunder
for in advertisement of any institut on, eve or product other than that named
cn face of ts contract Notwithstanding the foregoing ADVERT.SEX l
have the get any or times to designate any advertising agency to act
for ADVERTISER hereunder in place of AGENCY. Failure of STATION or AGENCY
to enforce any of the provisions of this contract shall not be construed as
general relacishment or waiver as to that or any other provision.
fel Legal Cb' gations STATION's bligations hereunder are subject to the
terms and condos of licenses held by it and to applicable internatione, rederal,
state and local laws and regulations.
(Entire Agreement. Th's contract contains the entire agreement between the
partes relating to the sub act matter herein contained shall be construed accord-
irg to the law of the State of New York, where STATION's office is located,
and cannot be charged or terminated orally.
(a) Notices. Notices given by prepaid telegram or by registered or certified
ma shall be deemed qven when dispatched Notices by ard mary mail
and
be deemed given when received. All otices here.ader shaft be in writing
yes by her personal de very shall be addressed to the party
at the address spec fed os the face of th's contract or to such other address
as may be specified barevndar in writing

14-00000

SECRET (When filled in]
DISBURSEMENT VOUCHER
To: FINANCE OFFICER From: Alice B.Caponong
REQUEST FOR STATION FUNDS

AMOUNT REQUESTED $1,316.25
LOST ACCOUNT NO YOPOLL-11 DUE DATE 15 Sept 65
ADVANCE ACCOUNTING

IF ADVANCE IS REQUESTED COMPLETE FOLLOWING CERTIFICATION I AGREE THAT I WILL FULLY ACCOUNT FOR THIS SIGNATURE
ADVANCE BY SUBMISSION OF ACCOUNTING AND REFUND ANY UNEXPENDED BALANCE BY THE DATE STATED ABOVE IN
THE EVENT OF MY FAILURE TO SO ACCOUNT AND REFUND ANY UNEXPENDED BALANCE, I AUTHORIZE DEDUCTION FROM Alice B. Caponong
MAY SALARY TO EFFECT SETTLEMENT.

REIMBURSEMENT—OFFICIAL DIS-
BURSEMENTS ALREADY MADE

DATE RECEIPT NO. DESCRIPTION COST ACCOUNT NO AMOUNT
3 Sept 65 AMBUD-3 radio program og WRUL for $1,316,25
Sept 65 AUTH: COS

RECEIPTS ARE ATTACHLO EXCEPT attached. TOTAL
Request Cashier's Check made payable to: Radio New York
Harlezide

CERTIFICATION
SIGNATURE
I CERTIFY THAT THE DISBURSEMENTS ITEMIZED ABOVE WERE NECESSARILY MADE BY ME IN THE CONCUCT OF OFFICIAL
BUSHES Of & CONFIDENTIAN NATURE, THAT | HAVE YOF BFEN NOR WILL I 8E, REMBURSED THEREFOR FROM ANY CTHER
SOURCE, AMD THAT IIS CLAW ANO ATTACHMENTS ARE TRUS AND COSPECT sta ALL RES“!CTS
Date SIGNATURE Or APPROVING CHFICER
APPROVED 3 Sept O35 Bruce P.Veddar
RECEIPT
SIGNATURE
(1 HEREBY acKncwisOGE RECEIPT OF THE FUNDS REGUESTEO ABOVE) 3 Sept 65 Alice 3 Caponong
FOR USE OF MAE FINANCE GFFICER ONLY
‘TYPE OF FUNDS BLOCK NO. MIMBER OF UNITS. RATE DOLLAR VALUE

GENECAL LEDGER
ACCGUNE IDENTIFICATION

SuastDiaRe
IDENTIFICATION

POSED BY

DISTRIBUTION OF EXPENSES
sees CLASSIFICATION

COST ACCOUNT NO

CERTIFIED FOR PAYMENT OR CREDIT

VOUCHER NUSSSER

care TAUTcatizo CERTIFYING OFF CER
-- s44 6 | '
Peat
eee Toate -49)
FORA 4l oes ey ous SECRET Si! 1 6-49)

14-00000

RADIO NEW YORK WORLDWIDE - WKUL

4 WEST 56TH STREET, EW YOTIK t9. a. ¥.

OAYE SEPTEMBER 1, 1965

HAM; swore wo,
1675

TERMS

BROADCAST OVER THE FACILITIES OF WRUL ON THE SPANISH
SERVICE A (%) HOUR PROGRAM, 3 TIMES WEEZLY, (100N.,-WED.,
& FRIDAY) SEFTEMBFR 1, THROUCH 30, 1965, TOTAL 13
BROADCASTS AT $101.25,

; RECEIVEDSED 3 1965

CASH IN ADVANCE

$1,316.25

14-00000

SECRET (When filled in}

. : ee VOUCHER ~
” fasite “OFRICER loare

neste ee atte B,Caponong 30 Aug 65

REQUEST FOR STATION FUNDS

REMBGRSEMENT — OFFICIAL OS
BURSEMENTS ALEEADY MADE

7 ADUARKA 1S HL ISED COWEN ACULOWESR CORHRCATION 1 AGELE THAT fF VALL FULLY ACCOUNT FOR Tits [SOMATURE .

ADS ANE OF SPREAD CF AO COGS AD EHUD ONY UNELPENTED LALANCE 6Y THE DATE STATED ABOVE IN.

Wo AVERT Df OY FSRERE BO ST AC CORUET AND GES UR ANT UNELPENTED BALANCE, | AUTHORIZE DLOUCTION FROM

MY Sa\any © feoeey Serene Alice B,Caponong

DISBURSEMENTS
Oars ms Sec EWT Pa ~~ DESCE PHION COST ack COUNT NO |

3a_fug) 65 jens radia grogram for Aug 65 of

wee ee Pe ‘Radio Americas —_——__-.

pa

Erste AS ASU fone ree! Gioseg rewses?

roa $2.70

Yovoice attached. Cashio='s Check cequce: ted--made payahle to.
_——_———--—___________ Radio Amcricaa, Ine.

CERTIFICATION

SiGPeATURE
2 CLENZY Toad Ted COSUREENERNS MEWTED WOVE WERE NECESSAPY MADE OY Mt IN THE CONDUCT OF OFFICIAL

BUSINESS Or 8 COMET sting MATE, “hat EHtave AL: EEN NOM