```markdown
14-00000
104-10226-10117

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS
FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: 100-5-1
INCLUSIVE DATES: AUG. 62 - DEC. 63
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:
ROOM:
DELETIONS, IF ANY: THIRD AGENCY MATERIAL
DATE RECEIVED
DATE RETURNED REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

14-00000
Pre-Dates
HSCA request
Call 3rd Agency

14-00000
UNCLASSIFIED
INTERNAL USE ONLY
SUBJECT: (Optional)
FROM:
CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
EXTENSION
SVIBILI
D0/03/JPriebe
TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)
DATE RECEIVED
DATE FORWARDED
OFFICER'S INITIALS
1. DO/SR
2. DO/SAT
3. SR/CI/BBright
4. CSR/C1/K
5. EE/G/CE-Wagun
6. SR/C1/K
7. SR/C1/A
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.

30 July 1963

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment)
2 - This information was sent to CI Staff recently and has probably been forwarded to you for reply. Though you might be able to use this extra copy.
CHARGED FROM RID/FI
1886. note in memo.
Schroeder apparent BNI approach a subsequent Sov. approach.
Filfe bowe spotkal for 19GB?
Looks like RIS was on them first, but they may have sent Felfe (or another) at him for a false flag recruitment atte
INTERNAL USE ONLY UNCLASSIFIED

14-00000
COPY SENSITIVE
/60571
Chief, CI Staff/L 5 July 1963
2 C 42 Hq
Chief, Contact Division, 00
Attempted RIS Penetration of Bell Telephone Laboratories 1-10612

1. Attached are two memoranda, dated 26 June 1963, from our New York Field Office concerning apparent RIS interest in Manfred R. Schroeder and Donald E. Thomas, Bell Telephone Laboratories, Murray Hill, New Jersey. We believe this information should be passed to the FBI immediately. We would appreciate being advised the date this information is forwarded to the Bureau.

2. For your information, permission to brief Dr. Schroeder prior to his trip to the USSR was requested by our New York Office but refused by CI Staff. In view of his employment, however, and previous CI/OO contacts with him, FI recommended he be provided with a strong defensive and realities briefing.

3. Further inquiry may be directed to Mrs. Shirley Stetson, CD/OO, Smart Branch, Room 413, 1717 H Street, N.W., extension 8268.

K. M. ASHCRAFT

As stated above

30 July 63

CS COPY

SENSITIVE

14-00000

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum

SECRET

TO: Chief, Contact Division DATE: 1 July 1963
Attn: McConnell/Czajkowski/Lincoln Staff
FROM: Chief, New York Office
SUBJECT: Attempted R.I.S. Penetration of Bell Telephone Labs
Ref: NY Reports 2988-3 and 2989-3

1. We thought the attached reports would be of interest to Lincoln Staff from a Soviet realities standpoint. We also felt that they should be brought to the attention of Division management because the M.O. outlined therein is becoming a major factor in dealing with sources who have contact with Sovbloc nationals. It has been our experience that the type of activity outlined has been on a marked increase, particularly since the establishment of the KGB 10th Directorate. Although such activity by Sov legals is taking place throughout the continental U.S., undoubtedly its greatest impact is being felt in the New York and Washington, D.C. areas because of the large Soviet Government establishments in both of these cities. For this reason it would seem imperative that both WAFO and NYFO be extremely vigilant for such activity in companies and institutions with which they are dealing in order that it may be recognized in its earliest stages and appropriate CI/CE countermeasures instituted. In order to assist other offices in this respect, we plan to write in the near future an article for the Division Newsletter, outlining some of our experiences along these lines.

2. We were somewhat disappointed in CI Staff's reaction to our recent request for assistance in defensive briefing of the subject of one of the attached reports. It seems to be quite clear now that our original assumption concerning his being R.I.S. targeted was quite correct and that there is a strong likelihood that his current trip behind the Curtain will be utilized by the opposition for provocation and/or an actual recruitment attempt. We wonder in future cases of this nature exactly what support we may expect from Angleton's shop. Although we feel that we have a fair capability for handling such matters here in New York, we do admit that, at least on this one, we would have felt slightly more comfortable had a CI specialist been along, if for no other reason than to preclude any possible Monday morning quarterbacking by the "old pros."

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET
-2-
Subject: Attempted R.I.S. Penetration of Bell Telephone Labs

3. Judging by the attached material, it would appear that, despite established Bell policy (see our 16 May memorandum re Case 39,790), the opposition has seen fit to deflower at least two of Bell's scientific virgins. We seriously wonder at this point just how many other Bell people might be in the same boat. Perhaps, as a result of all this, some representation by Bell management to the KGB will be forthcoming, spelling out to that organization, as was spelled out to our own, established company policy pertaining to such matters. In any event, it would appear that at least one or two Bell scientists, and there are probably more, have been giving the R.I.S. more cooperation and reporting than the Agency. Let's hope that in the near future Bell management takes some effective steps to rectify this rather ludicrous, and patently dangerous, situation.

Attachments: NY Reports 2988-3 and 2989-3

J. J. Connor
B. L. REEVES

SECRET

14-00000

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum

TO: Chief, Contact Division DATE: 26 June
Attn: Support (Shirley Stetson)
FROM: Chief, New York Office
SUBJECT: Apparent RIS Interest in Manfred R. Schroeder (201-734194) Bell Telephone Labs

1. At 0930-1230 hours 14 June, Manfred R. Schroeder of Bell Labs received a strong defensive briefing in connection with his June-July trip to the USSR and Bulgaria (see our 7 May Coordination Outline for subject). During Schroeder's briefing, Nagle elicited from him that prior to a trip to the USSR in 1959 he had been contacted by an individual who represented himself as a West German Intelligence Officer. More important, we also learned that, at about the same time, RIS cultivation of Schroeder apparently began.

2. Concerning the West German approach, Schroeder indicated that his mother, who resides in Hamburg, was telephoned in 1959 by an individual who claimed to be an old acquaintance of her son's and who was interested in contacting him concerning employment in the US. The caller left a phone number and said that he would appreciate it if Schroeder could call him next time he was in Hamburg. Schroeder's mother relayed the message to her son, and, as requested, he telephoned the caller just prior to his 1959 USSR junket. The individual he called identified himself as a West German Intelligence Officer and said that he would like to meet Schroeder as soon as possible. Schroeder agreed. When they met, the individual in question (Schroeder does not recall his name) presented suitable credentials and expressed interest in Schroeder's trip to the USSR. According to Schroeder's account, the West German Intelligence Officer gave him the old "keep your eyes and ears open" pitch, and told him that he would contact him in the first West German city in which he touched down after his USSR trip. Schroeder was contacted in Stuttgart promptly after returning to Germany from the USSR on his way back to the US. Because of his US employment and the fact that Bell paid for his trip, Schroeder became very apprehensive about any further contact with the West German service and at the time of the call indicated that he had nothing to say and wanted no further contact. Other than the cursory examination of credentials (as reported above), Schroeder made no attempt to establish the bona fides of the German who made the approach. We pointed out to Schroeder the unlikely possibility that the approach might not have been bona fide and might, in fact, have been a provocation.

SECRET
SENSITIVE

14-00000

SENSITIVE
Subject: Apparent RIS Interest in Manfred R. Schroeder, Bell Telephone Labs

3. Apparently R.I.S. cultivation of Schroeder dates back to a period prior to the above incident. According to his account, he had received what appeared to be a routine invitation to visit Soviet acoustics facilities in Moscow and Leningrad in 1958. In connection with the invitation, he wrote to a Soviet acquaintance that during his visit he would like to meet a specific Soviet acoustics engineer who was very interested in his work and had done several Russian translations of same. As a result of this correspondence, Schroeder received at his home a couple of days prior to his departure a special invitation from an individual who identified himself as a representative of the State Committee on Automation and Electrification in New York. The caller told Schroeder that old friend Yorgin (231-267769) would like to deliver to him a special invitation. Schroeder indicated that since the invitation couldn't be delivered through normal channels, he finally agreed to have Yorgin deliver the invitation to his home. Schroeder invited Yorgin to deliver the invitation at his home in Chatham, New Jersey, but the latter declined, however, stating that Schroeder's home was in an area closed to travel by Soviet nationals. The Sov arranged to meet Schroeder's wife in Chatham, New Jersey, and at that time turned over to her the invitation for her husband.

4. Schroeder said that his trip to the USSR was quite routine and that he could recall nothing but the ordinary happenings during the trip. During the visit, his Soviet counterpart, Lyuy, who speaks fluent German, acted as his host and was at his side continually.

5. Sometime in 1961, Schroeder received a phone call one evening from Vladimir Volgin, identified as a representative of Amtorg. Volgin told Schroeder that old friend Purduev had just completed a visit to New York and before leaving the city had asked him to deliver a present to Schroeder for him, hence the phone call. Volgin insisted on delivering the present to Schroeder in person, and the two made arrangements to have lunch together the following week in Manhattan. This began a series of approximately six or more contacts with Volgin.

SECRET
SENSITIVE

14-00000

SENSITIVE
Subject: Apparent RIS Interest in Manfred R. Schroeder, Bell Telephone Labs

Schroeder stated that when Schroeder and his wife were making plans to travel to the USSR, he received a note from Volgin stating that he was also traveling to the USSR in order that his wife could accompany him there. Incidentally, Schroeder's only other contact with Volgin occurred in 1962 when he met him in Copenhagen at a professional meeting.

6. Schroeder said that most, if not all, of Volgin's phone calls to him were to his home and usually appeared to have been from pay phones. Schroeder said that while meetings with Volgin included lunches and dinners in Manhattan, socializing at a T.R.E. Meeting, theater, entertainment of each other in their homes never occurred. Schroeder claims that his wife accompanied him during most of his contact with Volgin. Other than to his own family, Volgin never introduced Schroeder to any other individuals.

7. Schroeder claims that on a couple of occasions he turned over unclassified technical papers, which Volgin claimed he needed to show to an acoustics engineer. Schroeder can't recall whether Volgin specifically requested the information or whether he turned it over to him on his own initiative. At one point during their relationship, Volgin asked Schroeder to write an article on US acoustics work for publication in a Soviet scientific journal. Schroeder declined.

8. In retrospect Schroeder admitted that he had been quite naive about his relationship with Volgin and expressed some concern that Bell security hadn't been more active in admonishing him against development of relationships with Sov Government representatives. His view of his experiences completely coincides with ours as a result of our discussion.

9. Another factor which obviously enters into Schroeder's R.I.S. picture is a wife's Bulgarian extraction. Schroeder claims that neither he nor, to the best of his knowledge, his wife have ever been approached by Sovbloc representatives in this country concerning his wife's family in Bulgaria. His wife's mother, Ivanalia Mensckik, immigrated to the US in April 1961 and lived with Schroeder and his wife until November 1962 when she returned to Sofia, apparently because she was homesick and couldn't adjust to the new language and life in the US. Schroeder said that his mother-in-law's original exit visa request was rejected in 1958 by the Bulgarian Government, but after he and his wife wrote several letters to the Bulgarian Foreign Ministry she was finally granted permission to leave in 1960.

SECRET
SENSITIVE

14-00000

SECRET
SENSITIVE
Subject: Apparent RIS Interest in Manfred R. Schroeder, Bell Telephone Labs

10. After Schroeder visits the USSR on his current trip, he plans to fly to Sofia to spend approximately a week with his wife's family there. Schroeder had not mentioned the Bulgarian visit in outlining his original itinerary to Bob Martin of this office, therefore, it was not mentioned in Schroeder's Coordination Outline.

11. All of the above would seem to indicate quite strongly that Schroeder, as we originally surmised, has been targeted by R.I.S. In briefing Schroeder, we ran through some of the typical entrapment situations fabricated by the opposition, e.g., women, homosexuals, purchase of drugs for Sov citizens, black market activity, acceptance of letters to mail outside the USSR, commitments to disaffected Sovs, etc. In addition, we stringently admonished Schroeder against any notetaking or photography which could in any way be construed as compromising. We also alerted Schroeder to the fact that some attempt might be made to use his wife's family as leverage in a recruitment attempt. In this connection, we pointed out to Schroeder that there was a strong likelihood that the R.I.S. and/or Bulgarian service would make an approach to him during his forthcoming visit to Sofia. An approach in Bulgaria would give the Soviets an opportunity for disavowal and also would provide the proper setting for maximum utilization of relatives. When Schroeder mentioned that his sister-in-law, FNU Mensckik, had indicated several times in the past that she would like to leave Bulgaria, we strongly admonished him against making any commitments to her, pointing out that she may possibly be co-opted by the opposition. We told Schroeder that any representations to gain an exit visa for his sister-in-law should be channeled through the US Legation in Sofia. Schroeder was told that, if any pressure were applied concerning his wife's family, his best reaction would probably be a noncommittal, "I'll think it over when I get home." All in all, we alerted Schroeder as best we could to the opposition M.O. and prepared him on how best to avoid some of the not so obvious pitfalls which might be in store for him.

12. Prior to our briefing of Schroeder, Bob Martin alerted Bell management to all of the ramifications of Schroeder's travel behind the Curtain. The management was informed by Martin that we felt it our obligation to point out to them the strong possibility that Schroeder had been targeted in order that they would have all of the facts available before signing off on his trip.

SECRET
SENSITIVE

14-00000

SECRET
SENSITIVE
Subject: Apparent RIS Interest in Manfred R. Schroeder, Bell Telephone Labs

13. Assessment of Schroeder: Subject, a very accomplished scientist, heads up all acoustics research at Bell. He reads Russian and is fluent in German, French, Spanish, Italian, Dutch, and English. He impresses us as being a rather savvy, discreet, cooperative, mature, stable, well motivated individual. We attribute Schroeder's apparent lack of discretion in his dealings with the Soviets more to the subtlety of the Sov approach than to his own naivete. It has been our experience that most US businessmen and scientists are very susceptible and vulnerable to the opposition approach mainly due to somewhat of a lack of realistic public education concerning contacts with Sovbloc nationals. We feel that Schroeder's degree of cooperativeness with US services has been enhanced considerably by his feeling that he has really been taken for a ride by the opposition.

Incidentally, when we asked subject for permission to release this information with source disclosure to the FBI, he was at first somewhat apprehensive and expressed the desire to talk it over with one of his Bell superiors before he made any commitments. He finally agreed, however, when we convinced him that it would certainly be in his best interest to get on record with the FBI as soon as possible. Most of his apprehension about the FBI seemed to be attributable to the fact that he has just been granted US citizenship and, in addition, is now somewhat concerned that his activities with the Soviets in some way may affect his security status which in turn could be very detrimental to his career.

Based on our limited contact with Schroeder, we have every reason to believe that he would be suitable for operational use, should the Bureau choose to pursue such a course.

14. We would strongly recommend that all of the above be passed to the Bureau ASAP in order that that organization may effect contact with Schroeder and provide him with proper guidance concerning any further approaches by Sov or Bloc nationals in this country.

JAY B. REEVES

SECRET
SENSITIVE

14-00000

2. Germany. Citizenship
Application for same 22 January 1963.

3. Home Address: Fairview Avenue, Madison, New Jersey

4. Place of employment: Bell Laboratories, Murray Hill, New Jersey
Position: Acoustics Research

5. Itinerary: Subject will tentatively depart US 10 May, arriving Moscow 19 May. He will spend two weeks visiting labs in Moscow and Leningrad at the invitation of D. Gvishiani, Deputy Chairman, State Committee for Coordination of Scientific Research. If the 19 day arrival date is not acceptable to the Soviets, subject will make the trip in June or July.

6. Previous Trips to the USSR: During November 1958, while in Europe, subject received an invitation from the USSR Academy of Science to visit various Soviet acoustic laboratories. Because of a tight schedule at the time subject declined the invitation. In early March of this year he received the invitation from Gvishiani mentioned above.

7. During this trip, subject will discuss with Soviet counterparts various aspects of voice communications research, electroacoustics, and architectural acoustics. He will also visit Soviet laboratories involved in research in these fields.

8. Security Status: Subject was granted Secret clearance by Kidd/Milton Material Command 30 July 1956 in anticipation of his being used on a classified project at Bell Laboratories. Also memo check on subject pending.

9. Various Contacts with the USSR: In 1959 subject was contacted twice by New York Field Office for briefing after a trip to the USSR. At the time he was generally cooperative, but somewhat apprehensive. He was again contacted in 1960 for debriefing subsequent to a US visit of a Soviet counterpart.

10. Relatives or Close Friends in Denied Areas: Subject's wife was born in Sofia, Bulgaria. She now reportedly holds US citizenship. In Nov 1962 subject managed to arrange for immigration to the US of his mother-in-law, Ivanalia Mensckik. After a short stay in this country, however, she returned to her home in Sofia in March 1963. In addition to his mother-in-law, presumably there are other relatives of his wife still living in Bulgaria.

11. Analysis of Previous Trips: From 13-18 August 1959 subject visited acoustics laboratories in Moscow and Leningrad.

12. Analysis of Subject's Competence: Subject is a very competent scientist, reads Russian and is fluent in German, French, Spanish, Italian, Dutch and English.

13. Remarks: During our combat limited relationship with subject he has given every indication of being discreet, security conscious, mature, and cooperative.

14. Nature of Substantive Briefing Proposed and Requirements to Soviets: Subject will not be briefed on operations of any kind. No photography or incriminating note taking will be requested of him.

15. Substantive and Realities Briefing: Subject will receive routine defensive and Sovbloc realities briefing.

16. Briefing Officer and Participants: Briefing will be conducted by New York Field Office personnel.

17. Coordination: Completed 15 May 1963.

SECRET

14-00000

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, USC, Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

C-O-M-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

COUNTRY USSR
SUBJECT Alleged House Arrest of Soviet Scientist, L. Chistovich
DATE OF INFO.
REPORT NO.
DATE DISTR. July 63
NO. PAGES 2
REFERENCES

PLACE & DATE ACQ. July 63

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION
SOURCE: US citizen, professor in a university. He is an authority on acoustics.

1. I attended the Third International Congress on Acoustics, 1-8 Sept 59, Stuttgart, West Germany.

2. While at this Congress I met a Soviet female scientist, L. Chistovich who is connected with the Pavlov Institute of Physiology, Leningrad. One day during the Congress I took a walk in the Black Forest with L. Chistovich and another Soviet scientist. After a short time, the other Soviet scientist excused himself saying that he had to rejoin his colleagues.

3. In June 1963 Manfred Schroeder, an acoustician with Bell Telephone Laboratories, was in the USSR. On his return to the US he told me that he had heard while in the USSR that L. Chistovich, on her return from the 1959 Stuttgart Congress, had been placed under house arrest. He also said that he had seen L. Chistovich while he was in the USSR, and he had asked her whether it was true that she had been placed under house arrest on returning from the Stuttgart Congress. He said Chistovich's only reply was to blush.

4. I suspect that the individual who reported L. Chistovich to the authorities was Yuriy Pavlovich Lysanov. He is connected with the Acoustics Institute in Moscow. He publishes very little and his conduct has seemed strange to me. He was in the United States in 1956-1957. I suspect that the fact that L. Chistovich took a walk with me alone may well have been the reason she was placed under house arrest.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

This document contains information affecting the national defense of the United States within the meaning of the espionage laws, Title 18, USC, Sections 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

14-00000

FBI report dated 27 Oct. 62 (Wash. D.C.)
Re: Exchange of Information Involving
Soviet Satellite Diplomats

FBI report dated 31 Oct. 62 (N.Y., N.Y.)

FBI memo dated 24 Jan. 63 (Wash. D.C.)
Re: Soviet-Bloc Intelligence Activities in U.S.

FBI Report dated 24 Feb 63 (Wash. D.C.) filed (5) 65-63478
Re: Soviet Bloc Intelligence Activities in U.S.

FBI Report dated 21 March 63 (Wash. D.C.) filed (5) 65-63478
Re: Soviet Bloc Intelligence Activities in U.S.

FBI Report dated 25 April 63 (Wash. D.C.) filed (5) 65-63478
Re: Soviet Bloc Intelligence Activities in U.S.

FBI Report dated 24 May 63 (Wash. D.C.) filed (5) 65-63478
Re: Soviet Bloc Intelligence Activities in U.S.

FBI Report dated 20 June 63 (Wash. D.C.) filed (5) 65-63908
Re: Soviet-Bloc Intelligence Activities in U.S.

FBI Report dated 22 July 63 (Wash. D.C.) filed (5) 65-63478
Re: Soviet Bloc Intelligence Activities in U.S.

FBI Report dated 19 Aug 63 (Wash. D.C.) filed (5) 65-63478
Re: Soviet-Bloc Intelligence Activities in U.S.

FBI analysis dated 4 Sept 63 (Wash. D.C.)
Re: Soviet Bloc Intelligence Activities in U.S.

FBI Report dated 4 Nov. 63 (Wash D.C.)
Photographs in section
Observed Taking U.S. Journal

FBI Report dated 25 Nov. 63 (Wash. D.C.) filed (5) 65-63478
Re: Soviet Bloc Intelligence Activities in U.S.

FBI Report dated 27 Dec 63 (N.Y., N.Y.)

TOP SECRET CROSS REFERENCE SHEET (FBI Report 22 May 63)
Re: Soviet Personnel Intelligence Activities
```