14-00000
104-10215-10005
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

HARING INDICATOR

STAFF

CONF:
LAS
INFO: FILE

DATE TIME GROUP
2100222

DIRECTOR
795395

DISSEM BY:

TO:
SANTO DOMINGO INFO LA/MIAMI

EMUISE

REF:
SANTO DOMINGO 17047 IN 793956

FOLLOWING ARE HQS TRACES ON SUBSOURCES REF INFO:

A. COL. ORLANDO PIEDRA NEGUERUELA (201-247879) DPOB:
18 DEC 17, SAN ANTONIO DE LOS BANOS, CUBA. WAS VERY CLOSE TO
FULGENCIO BATISTA AND WAS CHIEF OF CUBAN NATIONAL POLICE DEPARTMENT
OF INVESTIGATION. ARRIVED IN U.S. 1959 FROM CUBA VIA THE DOM REP
AFTER BATISTA OVERTHROWN. OVER YEARS HAD BEEN INVOLVED IN WORKING FOR
RETURN OF BATISTA TO POWER IN CUBA. LATEST INFO DATED APRIL 1970
REPORTED THAT HE WAS SOLICITING PRICES OF ARMAMENT FOR NICARAGUAN
GOVERNMENT. PRESUME THAT HE MAY KNOW EMGARNET-1 BECAUSE OF THEIR
SIMILAR PRE-CASTRO BACKGROUNDS.

B. FNU ALPIZAR POSSIBLY IDEN WITH EVELIO ALPIZ
PEREZ (201-264344) DPOB: 27 NOV 31, ARROYO ARENAS, HABANA, CUBA.

EVELIO ALPIZAR WAS CUBAN AIR FORCE PILOT AND POSSIBLY A MEMBER OF THE
SERVICIO DE INTELIGENCIA (SIM) UNDER BATISTA. HE FLEW TO FLORIDA 1
JAN 59 AFTER BATISTA'S OVERTHROW AND WHILE IN U.S. HE WAS APPARENT

CROSS FILE COPY FOR

DO NOT DECOPY

COORDINATING OFFICES

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

AUTHENTICATION OFFICE
E2.IMPDET.
CL BY: 012913

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

STAFF

CONF:
INFO: FILE

DIRECTOR
795395

DISSEM BY:
PER

TARGET OF CUBAN DGI ATTEMPTS TO LURE HIM BACK TO CUBA. QFCGU-371.

5 APRIL 71 REQUESTED THAT HE BE WITHDRAWN FROM "PROGRAM" BASED ON
CONTINUOUS TREATMENTS FOR NERVOUS DISORDER AND RECOGNIZED EMOTIONAL
INSTABILITY. "PROGRAM" PROBABLY REFERS TO AKHERALD-ASSISTED FRENTE
REVOLUCIONARIO DEMOCRATICO (FRD) WHICH HAD RECRUITED HIM. IN 1963
ALPIZAR REPORTED PLANS TO BOMB CUBAN OIL REFINERY TO FBI AND CUSTOMS.

IN 1972 HE REPORTEDLY OWNER OF MIAMI AIR LEASING CORP.

2. BOTH PIEDRA AND ALPIZAR PEREZ ARE SUBJECTS OF EXTENSIVE FBI
REPORTS AND INTERVIEWS AND IT POSSIBLE THAT ALPIZAR MAY BE BUREAU
CONTACT. REQUEST STATION APPROVAL FOR PASSAGE OF NAMES OF PIEDRA AND
ALPIZAR TO FBI, NAMING THEM AS SOURCES OF REF INFO IN ORDER TO ASSIST
FBI IN ANY INVESTIGATION THAT THEY MIGHT MAKE INTO ALLEGATIONS.

3. FILE: 22-4-120; 22-2-21/3; 200-9-35; 201-247879; 201-264344;
201-64137.
E2.IMPDET.

LA COMMENT: INFORMATION PASSED BY EMFETCH-9 RE DOMINICAN AND PUERTO
RICAN EXTREMISTS TRAINING IN PUERTO RICO.

DATE: 5 JANUARY 1976
ORIG: SPRAGUE/JP
UNIT: LA/CAR/DRH
EXT: 1497

COORD: OPS/ITG-
LA/COG

RICHARD S SAMPSON
C/LA

FISHER AMES
C/LA CAR

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED; E2. IMPDET
CL BY: 012913
