```markdown
14-00000

(104-10177-10224) | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FILE TITLE/SUBJECT/VOLUME: OBYEDKOV, I.D.
201-779495
INCLUSIVE DATES: DUC. 64 - Mar 77
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: 074
ROOM:
DELETIONS, IF ANY: NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.

| DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL |
|---|---|---|---|
| 5 AUG 1978 2:08 | 15 Aug 1978 | LOPES | finished renewing 5:48 |

PHOTOS, FRANTY, IMA
MATERIAL FILED IN THIS FILE IS IN CHRONOLOGICAL ORDER.
DINAMARCO, ANA RAZOLE 522
OSTEDLOV, Ivan Dmitriyevich

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

DEFERRED TELEPOUCH WASHINGTON

CONF: INFO: FILE

DATE: 3 MARCH 1977
ORIG:
UNIT: 201-779495
EXT:

TO: LONDON

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER: 000781
DISSEM BY: RETURN TO PER
NO INDEX

FROM: SE/CI/X INFO SE/X/EU, E/BC
SUBJECT: WNINTEL CKTOP JAGUAR/IVAN DMITRIYEVICH OBYEDKOV (201-779495)
REF: LONDON 81224 TIN 2003461

1. OBYEDKOV ACTED AS A GUARD AT THE SOVIET EMBASSY IN MEXICO CITY, ALTHOUGH HE APPEARED TO BE BETTER EDUCATED THAN HIS DUTIES AS A GUARD WOULD DEMAND. AMONG HIS MAIN DUTIES, HE TENDED THE SOVIET EMBASSY TELEPHONE, STOOD GUARD DUTY AT THE GATE, TOOK MESSAGES FOR OTHER SOVIETS, NOTIFIED THEM OF MEETINGS, AND ARRANGED APPOINTMENTS. HE ALSO OCCASIONALLY DROVE ONE OF THE EMBASSY CARS ON ERRANDS. DURING HIS TEHRAN TOUR, HE WAS ALSO LISTED AS A GUARD AT THE SOVIET EMBASSY. HE WAS OBSERVED TO BE VERY SECURITY CONSCIOUS.

2. ON BOTH PRECEDING TOURS OBYEDKOV APPEARED TO FUNCTION AS A LEGITIMATE GUARD AND WAS NEVER OBSERVED IN THE ACT OF PERFORMING ANY INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES. BECAUSE A SOVIET IS LISTED AS A GUARD AT A SOVIET EMBASSY, IT DOES NOT FOLLOW THAT HE IS NECESSARILY A KGB OFFICER. SINCE WE HAVE NO EVIDENCE TO SUPPORT AN INTELLIGENCE AFFILIATION WE WILL NO LONGER CARRY HIM AS SUSPECT RIS, PROBABLY KGB.

RELEASING OFFICER AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED E 2 IMPDET
CL BY:035038

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

DEFERRED TELEPOUCH WASHINGTON

CONF: INFO: FILE

DATE: 9 MARCH 1977
ORIG: JONSSON/DTM
UNIT: SE/CI/X
EXT: 19011

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER: 000781
DISSEM BY: RETURN TO PER
NO INDEX

3. FILE: 201-779495. E-2, IMPDET.H
ORIG: SE/CI/X {JONSSON, BURL} COORD: SE/X/EU {C. BACNAMARA}, E/B {S. BROWNE}, C/SE/CI/X {NOYES}, REL: C/E/BC {A. STIMSONBEY}

C/SE/CI/X
SE/X/EU
E/BC

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED E 2 IMPDET
CL BY:035038

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000

CABLE DISSEM

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
DEFERRED TELEPOUCH

ACTION UNIT FILE

ACTION: T 636975 E1 A248 PAGE 01-01 TIN 200346
TOR:281431Z FEB 77 LOND 81224

SECRET 281359Z FEB 77 DEFERRED TELEPOUCH
CITE LONDON 81224
TO WASHINGTON.
FOR SE/BIO INFO SE/CI
SUBJ: WNINTEL CKTOP JAGUAR
REF: DIRECTOR 719659, 17 JUL 1975

1. JAGUAR NOTES THAT IVAN OBYEDKOV (SUBJECT REF) IS NOW WORKING AS AN ELECTRICIAN AT SOVIET EMBASSY, LONDON, THEY INQUIRING REASONS WHY WE CONSIDERED HIM SUSPECT RIS, PROBABLY KGB AND ALSO ASKING, IF POSSIBLE, FOR A DESCRIPTION OF THE FUNCTION HE PERFORMED AS GUARD AT SOVIET EMBASSIES IN TEHRAN AND MEXICO CITY.

2. FILE: 201-779495. E-2 IMPDET

SECRET 28 FEB 1977
201-779495

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

STAFF DIRECTOR

CONF: SE INFO: FILE

TO: LONDON

CKTOP JAGUAR TRACEY
REF: LONDON 63248 TIN 6292481

DATE: 15 JULY 1975
ORIG: CHARLIE WOODWARD/CF
UNIT: SE/BIO- SE/CI/X
EXT: 30749

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER: 739659
DISSEM BY: RETURN TO PER

FOR LIAISON LESS 2014 TRACE REPLY
OBYEDKOV (201-0779495) AND WIFE HAVE SON, VLADIMIR, BORN CIRCA 1953. IN 1965 OBYEDKOV SPOKE POOR SPANISH. OBYEDKOV WAS A GUARD FOR THE SOV EMBASSY IN MEXICO CITY FROM 28 AUG 62 TO 4 AUG 65 AND A GUARD FOR THE SOV EMBASSY IN TEHRAN FROM 15 AUG 67 TO PRIOR APR 71. DURING BOTH TOURS, OBYEDKOV'S WIFE SERVED AS PRINCIPAL OF SOV SCHOOLS. OBYEDKOV IS CONSIDERED SUSPECT RIS, PROBABLY KGB, BASED ON HIS POSITION. E-2 IMPDET.H

*REQUEST TRACES PCS SOV.
ALD 641970

RECORD COPY

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED E 2 IMPDET
CL BY: 0482962

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000

CABLE DISSEM BY

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

ACTION UNIT FILE

ACTION: T 149631 E1A186 PAGE 01-01

TOR:101040Z JUL 75

SECRET 100944Z JUL 75 STAFF
CITE LONDON 63248
TO: DIRECTOR

CKTOP JAGUAR TRACE

1. JAGUAR REQUESTS TRACES ON IVAN DMITRIYEVICH OBYEDKOV, BORN 28 JUL 27, RYAZANSKAYA OBLAST, WIFE: YELENA LVOVNA OBEDKOVA NEE DMITRIYEVA, BORN 04 MAR 28, MOSCOW. POSTING: TWO YEARS SOVIET EMBASSY REPLACING ANATOLIY IVANOVICH SUKHOV (201-905449). MD #221776

2. FILE DEFER, E2, IMPDET.

SECRET 10 Jun 75
201-779495

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000

DISPATCH

Chief, SB
Chief, NE

FROM: Chief of Station, Tehran
SUBJECT: REDTOP AEKICK - PCS Departure - Ivan Dmitriyevich OBYEDKOV

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK CAN JUDGE INDEXING

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

1. For your information, we no longer carry Ivan Dmitriyevich OBYEDKOV (201-779495), guard at the Soviet Embassy in Tehran, as PCS. He was not listed on ROGWEN's April 1971 Presence List nor their December 1971 list. We assume he has departed PCS.

2. During OBYEDKOV's tour in Tehran his wife, Yelena, served as principal at the Soviet school. His son was apparently in Moscow living with Yelena's mother. On 23 October 1969, ROARC reported the grandmother calling to check with OBYEDKOV regarding a tutor for the child. They discussed the possibility of the tutor coming for three times a week, at five rubles per hour, but OBYEDKOV, after checking with his wife, decided on two times a week. OBYEDKOV seemed to be very fond of his mother-in-law. According to our AESCREEN transcriber, she was the only one that could tell OBYEDKOV what to do.

3. The following are comments made by our AESCREEN transcriber on OBYEDKOV on 8 July 1970:

"He is very security conscious, especially in dealing with "official people" or superiors. He mentions his name to his friends freely, but refuses to say his name when he knows that one of the superiors is calling, "this is the duty officer" OBYEDKOV would say several times. He often lectures people when they violate security regulations when talking on the telephone. OBYEDKOV has to be persuaded several times or even (continued)

ATTACHMENT: Photo, h/w
DISTRIBUTION:
-C/SB, w/att., a/s
2-C/NE, wo/att.

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: NITA-25520
DATE: 7 February 1972
HOS FILE NUMBER: 201-779495
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

--- Page 8 ---

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH NITA-25520

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

begged if someone needs help (getting a vehicle or when asking for a favor), but when he decides to help, OBYEDKOV will stay with the problem until he gets results.

Although OBYEDKOVA seems to be more cultured and better educated than her husband, it is certain that only OBYEDKOV makes the final decisions. OBYEDKOV could be very pleasant, helpful and even kind, but it usually depended on his mood."

5. The only Soviet we noted as being friendly with OBYEDKOV during his tour here was Rafik Nazhaf-Ogly ABDULLAYEV (201-808524), Third Secretary, suspect RIS, probable KGB. When speaking to one another they used the familiar "ty". We do not know the extent of their relationship.

4. Forwarded herewith is a photograph, date unknown, received from ROGWEN. We have destroyed the Station file.

Marcia A. BURGOON

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT: ORYEDKOV, IVAN DMITRIYEVICH
DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION:
FILE NO: 201-779495
DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC, SYMBOL NO: NITA-23060A01
DATE: 09 DEC 68
SOURCE CRYPTONYM: DATE OF INFO:
EVALUATION: P4

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION:
DATE PROCESSED:
DISSEMINATED IN:
DATE:
CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE: 041-008-005
TRANSFERRED TO RE FILE NO:

PERTINENT INFORMATION:
SEX M DOB ?
CIT ?
OCC ? CHIEF GUARD, SUSPECT RIS. WIFE YELENA LVNOVNA IS DIRECTOR, DEPENDENTS SCHOOL.

R 6903190152
FILE IN 201-779495

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

FORM 867 PREVIOUS EDITIONS. SECRET

--- Page 10 ---

14-00000

DISPATCH

Chief, SB
Chief, NE

FROM: Chief of Station, Tehran
SUBJECT: REDTOP: Ivan Dmitriyevich OBYEDKOV (201-

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK CAN JUDGE INDEXING

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

1. Request traces on: Ivan Dmitriyevich OBYEDKOV (201-777495)
born 27 August 1927, Ryazan
passport: S-105042 issued 26 May 1967
Wife: Yelena born 1923, Moscow
passport: S-105043 issued 26 May 1967
occupation: guard, Soviet Embassy, Tehran
arrived: 15 August 1967.
Photocopies of the OBYEDKOVs' passports are attached.

2. According to the 1963 and 1964 Checklists of Soviet Officials Abroad, one Ivan Ivanovich OBYEDKOV (201-121531); born 14 July 1912; wife Yelena; A number 04877, was present in Mexico City since August 1952 as an employee of the Soviet Embassy. The Checklist for 1965 lists one Ivan Dmitriyevich OBYEDKOV (201-779495); born 14 July 1912; wife Yelena; A number 41970, as an employee of the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City since August 1962. Apparently these two OBYEDKOVs are one in the same and although Subject's birthdate is different we believe he is identical with the OBYEDKOV who served in Mexico City. Recently a conversation was recorded on ROARC during which Subject used several Spanish words and expressions. It is possible Subject acquired a knowledge of Spanish during a previous tour in a Spanish speaking country such as Mexico. Please compare the attached photo of Subject with that of the OBYEDKOV who was assigned to Mexico City to determine if they are identical.

Attachment: As stated, h/w

Veronica L. ANIELARKS
RIS INPUT No.

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: NITA-21,826
DATE: 7 September 1957
HOS FILE NUMBER: 201-
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

--- Page 11 ---

14-00000

DISPATCH

Chief of Station, Tehran

FROM: Chief, SB via Chief, NE
SUBJECT: Ivan Dmitriyevich OBYEDKOV (201-779495)

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK CAN JUDGE INDEXING

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES
REFERENCE: NITA-21826, 7 September 1967

1. Forwarded herewith are Summary Traces in SPR format on Ivan Dmitriyevich OBYEDKOV (201-779495) who is suspect RIS. Paragraph 20 of the Summary is for passage to liaison.

2. Subject is not identical to Ivan Ivanovich OBYEDKOV (201-121531). When Subject first arrived in Mexico in August 1962, he was reported as Ivan Ivanovich and this error was not corrected until May 1965; therefore, two Checklists carried the wrong man PCS in Mexico. When the records were corrected, the Subject's birthdate was not, and the same date was listed for both parties. Headquarters records do not list a wife or other dependents for Ivan Ivanovich OBYEDKOV and, as far as is known, he has not been assigned abroad PCS prior to the date of this dispatch.

ATTACHMENT: "Soviet Personality Report" h/w

Rita N. TOLJANIC

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: NITW-11583
DATE: 16 November 1967
HOS FILE NUMBER: 201-779495
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

OFFICE SYMBOL: SB/O/NE
OFFICER: Betty Given

COORDINATING:
SB/O/NE
SB/CI/G

--- Page 12 ---

14-00000

PREPARED BY: Rita N. TOLJANIC
DATE: 3 October 1967
201-NUMBER: 201-779495
A NUMBER: A 41970

1. NAME: Ivan Dmitriyevich OBYEDKOV
2. DPOB: 27 August 1927 or 19 July 1927 in Ryazan
3. CITIZENSHIP AND PASSPORT DATA:
    a. USSR
    b. Service passport S009260, used while Subject was in Mexico
    c. Service passport S105042, issued 26 May 1967
6. CURRENT POSITION: Guard in the Soviet Embassy, Tehran
7. RELATIVES:
    c. spouse - Yelena Lvovna possibly nee DMITRIYEVA, born 1928 in Moscow. She traveled to Mexico on Service passport S009270. She served as the director of the Soviet Primary School in Mexico City and ran the summer camp in Cuernavaca.
    d. children - a son, Vladimir Ivanovich, born 1953.
    Boris Lvovich DMITRIYEV and Mariya Borisovna DMITRIYEVA, who are probably wife's brother and sister-in-law. During Subject's stay in Mexico they occupied Subject's apartment in Moscow, given as Moscow E-143, Metrogorodok, Otkrytoye Shosse 26, Building 7, Apartment 69, telephone G3-72-34.

SECRET
AHI NITW 11583
201-779445

--- Page 13 ---

14-00000

7. (cont'd)
In May 1964 Subject spoke to "Boris" in Moscow about certain purchases for the apartment, and Subject's wife also spoke to her mother, who apparently lived with Boris and his wife.
8. LANGUAGES:
    Russian - native
    Spanish - poor

SECRET

--- Page 14 ---

14-00000

PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION AND PHOTOS:
Photo number S010797

TAN DMITRIYEVICH
DPOB: CA 30
WIFE: A 30
A-41970

S010797
201-779495

SECRET

--- Page 15 ---

14-00000

10. PERSONALITY, CHARACTER, AND HABITS:

Although Subject acted as a guard at the Soviet Embassy in Mexico, he appeared to be fairly well educated and was not subservient to any of the other Soviets, with the exception of Counselor Boris Aleksandrovich KAZANTSEV (201-028975). On one occasion Subject was reported to be helping the daughter of Commercial Counselor Georgiy Stepanovich VISKO with her arithmetic homework. On another, Subject was asked about methods of producing metal wire, a subject on which Subject was well informed as a result of his having once worked for a wire factory.

Subject had a tape recorder at home which he liked to listen to. He also occasionally went fishing with other Soviets.
Subject told "Boris" in Moscow to build a large garage, because he was bringing a big car back with him. He also asked whether Boris had bought a refrigerator and TV for the apartment. On another occasion he was negotiating for a can of paint to take back to Moscow with him to repaint "the Moskvich". Subject and his wife were both buying watches just before leaving Mexico. From the above it appears that Subject was fairly well-off financially, for a guard.

SECRET

--- Page 16 ---

14-00000

11. CURRICULUM VITAE:

Date unknown - Subject reportedly worked at the Serp i Molot (wire) factory in Leningrad.

28 August 1962 - Subject, accompanied by wife and son, arrived PCS in Mexico as an employee of the Soviet Embassy. Subject replaced Vyacheslav Aleksandrovich YEGOROV (201-273431), who is suspect GRU.

6-19 November 1962 - Subject was in the hospital in Mexico City. On the 11th of November he underwent a three hour operation of unspecified nature. The other Soviets had to guard him when he came out of the operating room.

17 August 1963 - Subject stated that he had just returned from a trip with Valentin Vasilyevich BAKULIN (201-261813), who is known GRU. There was no information on where or why the trip was taken.

4 August 1965 - Subject departed Mexico PCS, transiting Belgium on his return to the USSR. He was accompanied by Valeriy Vladimirovich KOSTIKOV (201-305052) who is known KGB. Subject was replaced by Ivan Petrovich KARCHIN (201-782164).

SECRET

--- Page 17 ---

12. INTELLIGENCE AFFILIATION:

Mexico City Station considers Subject suspect RIS because he appears better educated that his duties as a guard would demand, because he seems financially better off than other Soviet guards and because of his apparent association on equal footing with Soviet RIS officers. DERYABIN in 1955 advised LNERGO that the surname OBYEDKOV was familiar to him as the name of a person who was in the Guards Directorate of the MVD in 1951.

In September 1967 DERYABIN and RASTVOROV said that they neither recognized the face nor the name of the Subject. (Both Ivan Ivanovich and Ivan Dmitriyevich were seen by the defectors and they did not recognize either of them.)

13. INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITY:

There was no intelligence activity noted on the Subject's part while he was stationed in Mexico.

14. NON-INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITY:

Subject primarily handled the main Soviet telephone and took guard duty at the gate. Subject took messages for other Soviets, notified them of meetings, and contacted them for appointments with each other. He occasionally drove one of

SECRET
201-779495

--- Page 18 ---

14. (cont'd)

the Embassy cars on errands. He kept a ledger of the telegrams sent out by the Embassy and notified other Soviets when cables came in for them.

15. CONTACTS:
    a. Soviet friends and associates.
        1. Valeriy Aleksandrovich ANDRIANOV (201-293945), employee in the Soviet Trade Representation in Mexico from February 1961 to May 1964, suspect RIS. When the ANDRIANOVs left Mexico they were planning to get in touch with Subject's family in Moscow.
        2. Aleksandr Mikhaylovich DENISOV (201-726491), Second Secretary at the Soviet Embassy in Mexico from August 1962 to April 1967, known GRU. Subject appeared not to like DENISOV. It also appeared that DENISOV was responsible for reimbursing Subject for the gas Subject used in KUKHARENKO's car.
        3. Aleksey Nikolayevich GANIN (201-757775), known GRU officer who visited Mexico 31 July - 14 August 1964.

SECRET

--- Page 19 ---

Subject, along with other Soviets who were known GRU officers, met GANIN on his visit to Mexico.
4. Sergey Semenovich KUKHARENKO (201-260831), chief of the Soviet information Bulletin in Mexico from October 1962 to August 1964, suspect KGB. Subject and KUKHARENKO were the best of friends for a time, but then KUKHARENKO began drinking too much and getting into various scrapes. Subject frequently commiserated with KUKHARENKO's wife over her husband's drinking, automobile accidents, money problems. Subject occasionally used KUKHARENKO's car.
5. Oleg Pavlovich MOSKVICHEV (201-285090), employee in the Soviet Trade Representation in Mexico from March 1961 to July 1964, known KGB. Subject gave MOSKVICHEV his home address in Moscow.
6. Vladimir Nikolayevich RADVANSKIY (201-298171), code clerk at the Soviet Embassy in Mexico from September 1964 to March 1967, known KGB. Subject is not known to have associated with RADVANSKIY; however, Subject's wife and RADVANSKAYA worked together in the school and children's camp, and

SECRET

--- Page 20 ---

15. (cont'd)

RADVANSKAYA took over the camp after Subject's wife left Mexico. RADVANSKAYA asked Subject's wife to tell her (RADVANSKAYA's) daughter to enter the institute when she saw her in Moscow.
7. Vladimir Aleksandrovich ROMANCHENKO (201-727109), Second Secretary of the Soviet Embassy in Mexico from August 1963 to July 1967, no known RIS affiliation. When ROMANCHENKO was in Moscow on leave in May 1964, Subject told "Boris" (believed to be Subject's brother-in-law) to send letters to him through ROMANCHENKO when he came back to Mexico.
8. Georgiy Stepanovich VISKO (201-243602), Commercial Counselor in Mexico from July 1962 to circa December 1966, suspect GRU. Subject's wife and Mrs. VISKO taught together in the school and seemed to be good friends. Subject also seemed to be friends with Mrs. VISKO, and he reportedly helped the VISKO's daughter with her arithmetic homework on at least one occasion.

SECRET

--- Page 21 ---

20. TRACES FOR LIAISON:

Ivan Dmitriyevich OBYEDKOV, born 27 August 1927, accompanied by his wife Yelena Lvovna, and son, Vladimir Ivanovich, born 1953, were stationed in Mexico City from August 1962 to August 1965. Subject was a guard in the Soviet Embassy. Subject is suspect RIS.

SECRET
201-777475

--- Page 22 ---

I would like to file all the material pertaining to Ivan Dmitriyevich Obyedkov (201-779-495) into Ivan Sosnovich Obycakov's file (201-121531) and unclassify this material into Ivan Dmitriyevich's file.

This material to be removed has Ivan Ivanovich's name on it and refers to his being PCS in Mexico, which was not Ivan Dmitriyevich.

If this note is too confusing and you have further questions please call Billy Given, SB/O/NE, Ext 1043.

QC OCT 1967

--- Page 23 ---

DISPATCH

Chief, SB Division
Chief, WH Division

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City
SUBJECT: REDTOP - Voice Samples of Soviets in Mexico

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

Forwarded herewith for Headquarters retention are voice samples, taken from LIENVOY, of the following Soviets previously stationed in Mexico :

Ivan Gavrilovich ALFERYEV (201-238701)
Yuriy Aleksandrovich ANDRIANOV (201-230429)
Ivan Afanasyevich BEKETOV (201-754500)
Ina Nikolayevna BOLDOVA (201-245416)
Vasiliy Karpovich BUTSEV (201-273883)
Yuriy Aleksandrovich DOMRACHEV (201-297886)
Aleksey Ivanovich GARMASHEV (201-277418)
Vladimir Petrovich GULIN (201-734985)
Viktor Petrovich KALININ (201-735040)
Nikolay Konstantinovich KRLEBNIKOV (201-227420)
Sergey Sergeyevich KONSTANTINOV (201-101794)
Valeriy Vladimirovich KOSTIKOV (201-305052)
Sergey Semenovich KUKHARENKO (201-260831)
Oleg Maksisovich NECHIPORENKO (201-305870)
Vladimir Petrovich OBRUBOV (201-731894)
Ivan Dmitriyevich OBYEDKOV (201-779495)
Aleksandr Petrovich PAVLOV (201-761255)
Georgiy Aleksandrovich SHCHUCHKIN (201-242728)
Vasiliy Vasilyevich SIMONOV (201-735055)
Sergey Iosifovich SOKOLOVSKIY (201-025485)
Gennadiy Fedorovich STROGANOV (201-735038)
Georgiy Stepanovich VISKO (201-243802)

Willard C. CURTIS
Attachment: Voice samples
Distribution:
2 - CSB, w/att., H/W
1 - CW, w/o att.

REFERENCE TO: Obydkor 201-779495
IIMMA 31217

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
JANUARY 1967

--- Page 24 ---

OBYEDKOV & WIFE

15-60-55 Dec. 18, 64 L34-MS-7587 51 to 490
In. 1532 hrs. IRA VISKO & ANDREY SONO107 talk to CV in Russian.

15-60-55 12 Dec. 64 134-18-7507 #943
Out. 1919 hrs. OBYEDKOV talks to New York in Spanish.

18 Dec. 64 134-18-7587 #962
1939 hrs. MF talks to OBYEDKOV in Spanish.

OBYEDKOV & WIFE

15-60-55 26 Dec. 64 L34-M8-T594 #328
In. OBYEDKOV talks to his wife in Russian.

OBYEDKOV
201-779495

--- Page 25 ---

DISPATCH

Chief, SR Division
Chief, WH Division

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City
SUBJECT: REDWOOD - Ivan Dmitriyevich OBYEDKOV

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK CAN JUDGE INDEXING

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES
REFERENCE: HMMA-26177, 28 May 1965

1. LIFIRE reported the departure on 7 July 1965 via Sabena flight 556 for Brussels (and the USSR) of Subject's wife and son. It is not known whether this travel is PCS or TDY. According to LIENVOY, Subject will follow in September.

2. Travelling on the same flight with Subject was Lyudmila Ivanovna ZHEVTUN (201-754502), who has gone on home leave to the USSR.

3. The Station would appreciate a reply to the Reference, which requested clarification of Subject's identity.

Willard C. CURTIS

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: HMMA - 26658
DATE: 22 JULY 1965
HOS FILE NUMBER: 201-
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
FFN: P-8125

--- Page 26 ---

DISPATCH

Chief, SR Division
Chief, WH Division

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City
SUBJECT: REDWOOD - Ivan Dmitriyevich OBYEDKOV (201-779495)

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK CAN JUDGE INDEXING

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
REFERENCES: A. HMMA-26824, 10 August 1965
B. MEXI-4485, 19 August 1965

1. Reference A reported the departure of Subject from Mexico on 4 August 1965. The Station now believes that Subject departed PCS, and that he has possibly been replaced by Ivan Petrovich KARCHIN, whose arrival on 14 August 1965 was reported in Reference B.

2. According to LIENVOY, KARCHIN has been answering the telephone at the Soviet Embassy, a duty for which Subject was previously responsible. According to LICALLA, KARCHIN has also been taking guard duty at the entrance gate to the Soviet Embassy, which Subject also had as one of his duties.

3. In addition, LIENVOY reported that on 17 August 1965 that "a new school director" had arrived at the Soviet Embassy. OBYEDKOVA had previously been the director of the Soviet school in Mexico, and the fact that she had been replaced indicates that she will not return to Mexico. The identity of the new school director has not been established, although it may be KARCHINA.

4. The attached Soviet Personality Report (SPR) on Subject represents a summary of Station information on him. It is noted that Subject is listed as suspect RIS, service unknown. his previous designation as suspect KGB was based primarily on his presumed identity with the subject of 201-121531, which has now been established as incorrect.

Willard C. CURTIS

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: HMMA - 27030
DATE: 26 AUGUST 1965
HOS FILE NUMBER: 201-779495
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
FFN: P-8125

--- Page 27 ---

ATTACHMENT TO HMMA-27030
DATED 26 August 1965

SPR PREPARED BY: Jonathan L. WEENING
DATE: 26 August 1965

1. NAME: Ivan Dmit