104-10256-10081 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CABLE SECRETARIAT DIS
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
X-REF TO FILE NO.

FILE RID ☐ RET. TO
FILE, VR, BRANCH ☐ DESTROY ☐ SIG.

SECRET 261218Z MAY 69 CITE (BANGKOK) 3055
26 MAY 69 IN 66602
SAIGON INFO: DIRECTOR, (VIENTIANE) (SINGAPORE, (MANILA) (RANGOON)
(HONG KONG), (TAIPEI), (DJAKARTA), (TOKYO), (SEOUL), (KUALA LUMPUR)

REF: DIRECTOR 88114 (SENT (BANGKOK) ONLY)

1. WE HAVE BEEN PLAGUED FOR SOME WEEKS NOW
BY MR. MITCHELL L. WERBELL III, VICE PRESIDENT AND
DIRECTOR OF R AND D OF SIONICS, ATLANTA, GEORGIA.
WERBELL DESCRIBES HIMSELF AS A COUNTERINSURGENCY
EXPERT, HAS A VARIETY OF WEAPONS TO DISPLAY, CLAIMS
TO BE A RETIRED COLONEL, AND LAST WEEK INTRODUCED
HIMSELF AT A LOCAL NIGHT CLUB AS CHIEF OF WOFIRM IN
THAILAND.

2. WERBELL HAS A HISTORY OF SHOWING UP IN
TROUBLE SPOTS WHERE HE CAN MAKE A FAST BUCK. HE
IMPLIES THAT HE IS U.S. GOVT CONNECTED AND PRESENTS
A DEMONSTRATION OF A VARIETY OF EXOTIC
WEAPONS THAT NEVER FAILS TO IMPRESS. REF
DESCRIBES HIM AS AN UNSCRUPULOUS OPPORTUNIST WITH
A REPUTATION FOR LIVING BEYOND HIS MEANS.

SECRET

PAGE 2 BANGKOK 3055 SECRET

3. WERBELL IS AN AMERICAN CITIZEN, BORN 1919,
SERVED IN OSS, HAS SHAVEN HEAD AND HANDLEBAR
MUSTACHE. REF ADVISES THAT FULL DETAILS OF HIS
BACKGROUND SHOULD NOT BE PASSED TO LIAISON SINCE
HE IS U.S. CITIZEN. HOWEVER, STATES THAT LIAISON
CAN BE INFORMED, SHOULD HE APPEAR IN YOUR AREA,
THAT HE HAS AN UNSAVORY REPUTATION, HAS NO U.S.
GOVT CONNECTIONS, AND ANY DEALINGS WITH HIM SHOULD
BE APPROACHED WITH EXTREME CAUTION.

4. FOR SAIGON: WE UNDERSTAND THAT WERBELL
RECENTLY VISITED SAIGON AND DID HIS THING WITH GEN.
ABRAMS, WHO WAS SUITABLY IMPRESSED, AND WERBELL
IS NOW SETTING UP A SNIPER TRAINING PROGRAM.

5. FILE: 261-259916

SECRET
