14-00000
104-10181-10152

[2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

S-E-C-R-E-T
DISPATCH

TO: Chief, WE
INFO:
FROM: Chief of Station, London
SUBJECT: Cuban Identified and suspect Intelligence Officers
ACTION REQUIRED: See para 4
HEADQUARTERS FILE NO: 104-10181-10152
DATE: 22 December 1962

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO: KEYWAY/PBRUMEN/SHOTE
OBLA-37,729

1. Attached hereto are three copies of a [SHOT] prepared list of identified and suspect intelligence officers, compiled from [SMOTH] records but not including information derived from Intelligence sources.

2. Copies are being distributed to JAGUAR, SMABLE, ASTO (Australia) and JACONET.

3. As the list includes a considerable amount of information from KUBARK sources, [SMOTH] would be grateful if Headquarters would consider giving clearance to distribute copies of this study to friendly Latin American and Western European liaison services. They have further asked whether it would be appropriate to pass a copy of this report to ODENVY.

4. London Station would appreciate a brief cabled reply to the request for further distribution of this information.

LAWRENCE L. ROLDY

Attachment: "Cuban Identified and Suspect Intelligence Officers"
3 copies

Distributions:
4-Chief, VE w/atts
VEGA Perez

CELA - 37,729
201-334253
22 Dec 62

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

VALDES VAIDES, Ramon
Born circa 1911.
Suspect I.S.
1961: Officer at G-2 Headquarters, Havana.
Signs orders to view prisoners at La Cabana Prison.
Description: circa 5' 7" tall, heavy build, weight: 190 lbs. approx., short neck, scanty grey hair.

VAZQUEZ MONTENEGRO, Ramon
1960: Suspect I.S.
Member of Cuban Security and acted as bodyguard to President DORTICOS.
Reportedly travels on subversive missions in Latin America.
June 1962: Member of G-2 in the Cuban Ministry for Foreign Affairs.

VEGA PEREZ, Manuel
201-334253
Suspect I.O.
Diplomatic Attaché, Cuban Embassy, Mexico since June 1962.
Responsible for new "Committee in Defence of the Cuban Revolution".
Reported by defector to be former instructor at G-2 training school.

VELAZ (VELOZ), Lt. Anibal
Excerpt:
Attach to CELA-37,729
28 Dec 1962
