```markdown
14-00000

104-10176-10068
[2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: MASFERRER ROJAS, ROLANDO
INCLUSIVE DATES: 1 JAN. 64 THRU 31 DEC. 65
201-042669 VOL. VII
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:
ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY: THIRD AGENCY DOCUMENTS

DATE RECEIVED:
DATE RETURNED:
REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME):
SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL:

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

SECRET

23. Approximately in July 1964, I had a second interview with "Nordic" in the presence of "Jim" and "Enrique."

24. At the special request of the "friends," in September and October 1964 we sent forward reports on the officers of the Revolutionary Armed Forces in the six provinces, including any background data and information we had on them. Afterwards, the work of making summaries of information was intensified.

25. During August-September-October 1964, picket lines were formed in front of the airline companies that had flights to Mexico, and in front of airports, Mexican tourist agencies, and Mexican Consulates as a protest against the Mexican Government and its policy with relation to Cuba. This was done in Puerto Rico, Venezuela, Miami, New York and other places in the United States. This was done daily in Miami and New York. On different occasions pickets were placed in front of theaters which were showing Mexican films. In October pickets were placed in Miami and Miami Beach and propaganda was handed out at the time of the holding of the ASTA (Thirty-fourth World Congress of Travel Agencies).

26. In November 1964 we began to pass information to the "friends" about the training camps which were being opened in New Jersey to prepare and train people for the invasion of Haiti. We infiltrated some of our people into this group and thus kept informed of everything that went on.

27. At the end of 1964 and up to April 1965 we continued to make studies. Among them were those on the Cuban Telephone Enterprise, the Department of Port and Coastal Vigilance, censorship of correspondence, Cuban national budgets 1954/65, radio programs heard in Cuba.

28. At the request of the "friends" we collaborated in the reception activities for Juanita CASTRO and obtained the support of the exile organizations for rallies organized in Miami and New York.

29. In December 1964 we organized a great propaganda campaign, mobilizing all the Masonic lodges so they would back the proposal of the Masons who were supporting LOPEZ Mateos at the UN.

30. We acted as a support mechanism to the "friends" in the matter concerning Mrs. LIPPERT.

31. In the first months of 1965 an attempt was made on three different occasions to carry out Rescue Operation No. 1.

32. During the first months of 1965 we kept informed about the situation in the Dominican Republic and the participation of the Cubans and Dominicans in the Miami area in what was going on.

33. During this whole period, in view of the division existing among the exiles and of the formation of so many new exile groups, we infiltrated our agents into all the organizations and reported on all the movements of leaders of these groups and their activities, on all their statements and action plans. Our aim and purpose was to report everything about the movements of the Cubans and the exile groups.

34. During this period we also began carding all our reports for the

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

(Organization)

Its organization is headed by Joseph.
NOTE:
Had very little success in establishing itself due to lack of invitation from the UN and is presently hampered for the same reason.

A force of 150 to 200 trained men of the Haitian exile group.
TDCTCS-315/01038, 16 Oct 64 file 201-042669.

Group to support the Government in Exile of Haiti in the W. Caribbean.
Govt. in Haiti, but will support the Government in Exile's candidate, according to source, Fermin Joseph of STC, is against Communists and against any Communist government of Haiti.
PRA-43412, 18 June 63 file 36-9-5

One of 5 organizations existing as Haitian exile organization called O. See It.
BRA-59773, 18 Dec 63 file 201-118281

Haitian exile organization. Leaders of this organization and Legi Literie offered to place themselves under the personal leadership of CP, we also has a working relationship with the leaders of Jeune Haiti. These three groups, along with the dice la faste Dinge & those now in it will form part of the FAM, but without losing their individual group identity.
SOC 360351 (717) 16 Sept 64
DYVOUR/1 Pro.

"Cerber"
"Cubet" originally formed in 1953, recently re-activated. Organization has reportedly plans to invade Haiti.
gives military training to members and some have been to the Radar.
EA 96183, 25 Jun 65

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED
INTERNAL USE ONLY

SUBJECT: (Optional)

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

FROM:
Rolando Arcadio MASFERRER
TO: (Officer designation, room number, building)
EXTENSION
DATE RECEIVED:
DATE FORWARDED:
OFFICER'S INITIALS:
COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

1. This was delivered to SA IRVE on 17 Aug 64.
2. FLASHED AE QUID 1726418gby
3. RI/AN
4. RI/MIS
5. RI/Files

NO XAAZ 17997
DATE: 18 August 1964
201-042669

SECRET
File
201-042669
INTERNAL
CONFIDENTIAL USE ONLY
UNCLASSIFIED

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000

ORIGINAL FORM NO. 10
2536-164

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum

TO: Mrs. Sue Panzer
FROM: Chief, DO Division
SUBJECT: Meeting with Rolando Masferrer
DATE: 18 August 1964
DOC. MICRO. SER.
XAAZ 17997
MAR 27 1972
MICROFILMED

1. In accordance with our conversation, I am sending you the facts as I know them regarding the 7 August meeting in New York City between Rolando Masferrer and Averell Clark.

2. Apparently Masferrer knows Stanley Ross, the Editor of El Tiempo, a Spanish-language newspaper published in New York. The office is at 78 Fifth Avenue and the telephone number is WA 4-2750. Possibly Masferrer did not previously know Ross. But at any rate, either on his own or through someone else, he got in touch with him in late July or early August and said that he wanted to be put in touch with an American with an aviation and military background. I do not know too much about Ross at the moment except that he has had considerable Latin American experience and would be a logical person for any Latino to approach. It would be very easy to obtain additional evidence on him if desired.

3. I am attaching for your information a list of the stockholders in El Tiempo, Inc. to provide some indication of who is behind Ross. In addition, we have a list of all the senior officers of El Tiempo.

4. Ross knew of Clark through the Hitchcocks listed, as you will note, as stockholders. Mrs. Margaret Hitchcock is Clark's aunt, while Thomas Hitchcock III is his first cousin as presumably, is William Hitchcock. During the war Clark was an outstanding fighter pilot, having flown with the RAF through the roughest days of the Battle of Britain, and thereafter shifted to the Americans with whom he flew many missions as a P-47 pilot. He is still in the Air Force Reserve.

5. At Ross's request Clark met Masferrer at the El Tiempo office in New York City on 7 August. Ross left the room so that the session was only between Clark and Masferrer. As a pro-Batista Cuban, Masferrer was known to us at the time of the Bay of Pigs. In fact, at one point just before the invasion, the U.S. Department of Justice arrested him and put him in jail in Florida for violation of the provisions of the Neutrality Act.

SECRET
18 Aug 64
201-042669

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000

SECRET

-2-

6. Masferrer alleged to Clark that he was representing some twenty Cuban exile organizations, and that he was working with a Haitian, Charles Forben, head of an anti-Duvalier organization known as "Capois La Mort." Forben allegedly asked Masferrer to help his organization by leasing or buying a PBY-5 aircraft for use against Duvalier. Masferrer claimed that Forben's group was in a position to take control of the Ile de la Gonave, an island just off the west coast of Haiti in the gulf north of Port au Prince. It is conceivable that this is the wrong island since Clark did not have the name of the island in question, but based on the description of its location by Masferrer, I am assuming this to be the island involved. At any rate, in return for help from Masferrer, Forben was to be asked to let Masferrer and some of his Cuban exiles use the island in question as a base from which to harass the eastern end of the Island of Cuba.

7. Clark told Masferrer that as a member of the Air Force Reserve, he would have to report the conversation to the USG and could not do anything without clearing with the USG. Masferrer said that he had no objection to this, particularly with regard to the activities of Forben and his group, but he asked that Clark not mention his intention to harass Cuba, since he maintained that the USG would forbid this as being against USG policy. Clark said that Masferrer would have to leave to him what matters he chose to discuss with the USG. It was then agreed that Clark could reach Masferrer through Ross's office for about a week, and thereafter could pass a message to him through Ross.

8. Clark got in touch with me because I had known him during the war; I had known his family for many years, and one of his closest friends, James B. Watriss, is a cousin of mine and was, until about a year ago, associated with the Agency. Incidentally, I believe that Clark has had some discussions with SOD with the idea of possibly being used in connection with special operations.

SECRET
18 Aug 64
201-042669

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000

DOC. MICRO. SER.
MAR 27 1972
MICROFILMED

STANLEY ROSS
Editor
EL TIEMPO
Spanish Language National Newspaper

STOCKHOLDERS IN EL TIEMPO, INC.
78 FIFTH AVENUE
New York, N. Y. 10011
WA 6-2750

Miguel Alemán, former President of Mexico, and President of the Mexican National Tourist Council

Nicholas Duke Biddle, investor, civic leader, Chairman of the Board of Puerto Rican Social Service, active in Latin American Affairs

Samuel Berger, executive vice-President, Kinney Service Corp.

Enrique sites, Correspondent of EL TIEMPO, and Prominent Public figure in Spain

Mrs. Alfred L. Cornwell, wife of the former President and Chairman of the Board of F. W. Woolworth Corp.

Puerto Rican senator, industrialist, philanthropist

William Kellon Hitchcock, President of EL TIEMPO, Inc. and member of the firm of Lehman Bros.

Mrs. Thomas Hitchcock II, (Mrs. Margaret Hitchcock)

Dr. Thomas Hitchcock III, prominent philanthropist

Sheldon of firavitz, executive vice-President, Smith & Dorian, Inc.

President of Mechanical Rubber Corp.

Marshall Windheim, Associate of Olvech & Co. in Wall Street and leading investor in Venezuela

President of Smith & Dorian, Inc.

editor of EL TIEMPO, Inc.

New Sarpoir, investor and executive, brother of Ses David Sarnoff of NBC and RCA

Taxisch zan, real estate and investment

Gen. Anastasio Somoza, President of American Hemisphere Marine, The Mamenic Lines, and Lanies Airlines

Samuel Veiss, President of Rayco Stores

Att #1 to faaz 17997
18 Aug 64
201-042669

--- Page 8 ---

14-00000

Sent to Analysis
16 Dec 70

LIFG.
6267
26 Nov 64

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000

SECRET
(When filled in)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT
CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION
RI FILE NO.
DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.
DATE
SOURCE CRYPTONYM. DATE OF INFO. EVALUATION
DATE PROCESSED
DISSEMINATED IN
DATE
DOCUMENT DISPOSITION
TRANSFERRED TO
OF FILE NO.
PERTINENT INFORMATION

MANDERKER PISAN
019-006-095/04
SIXINIA
GA-24005
14 DEC 65

MS GARCIA (913510/201-353897) AND PERSONS TRUSTED BY SUBJ AND SFRA-
TN 4 PEPFI CAPTIL (701-774518) CONTRIBUTED 7,000 PESOS TO THE CUBAN EXILE NEWSPAPER
MUN AMERICAN. CURRENTLY HAVE FINANCIAL CONTROL OF NEWSPAPER.

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

SECRET

FILE IN 201-042669
14 Dec 65

--- Page 10 ---

14-00000

FBI doc
8 Oct 65 (NY)
Re-Rolando Arcadio Masferrer Rojas

FBI doc
7 Oct 65 (Miami)
Re - Rolando Arcadio Masferrer Rojas

Bu 2-156

--- Page 11 ---

14-00000

SECRET
(When Filled in)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION
RI FILE NO.
DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.
DATE
SOURCE CRYPTONYM DATE OF INFO. EVALUATION
DATE PROCESSED
DISSEMINATED IN
DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION
CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE
TRANSFERRED TO
BI FILE NO.
PERTINENT INFORMATION

MASFERRER, ROLANDO
201-042669
SEX M DOB
CIT
OCC
100-C09-014
DBB -16116
16 JUL 65

SUBJ OF EL TIEMPO STATED HE HAD RECEIVED INFORMATION THAT ERNESTO RICARDO VALERO-
BEREU HAD TOLD ASSOCIATES HE HAD WRITTEN ARTICLES UNDER PSEUDONYM FIALLU.

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

SECRET

FILE IN 201-042669

--- Page 12 ---

14-00000

PROGRAM ATLIK GELDER

PRIOR TO FILING

SECRET
(WHEN FILLED IN)

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS
1. Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back flap and forward to RID.
2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records significant action taken or comments requiring preservation.

FROM:
TO: ACTION BRANCH
If file no. and title shown are not proper, insert proper file no. below and forward document to RID/AN.

PROPER FILE NO.
RID/AN

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES
FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

MICROFILMED
SEP 1 1965
DOC. MICRO. SER.

--- Page 13 ---

14-00000

REPORT COVER SHEET
JMWAVE

REPORTING OFFICER
Henry J. SLOMAN

REPORTS OFFICER
Margaret R. NANKALL

APPROVING OFFICER
John C. Tarboll

SECRET
REPORT NO.
UFG-7482

DATE OF REPORT
24 August 1965

PROJECT
SOURCE CRYPT
UOAMBER-6
AMOT-84

FIELD DISTRIBUTION
HQS
PROCESSING ACTION
COVER SHEET
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
OPS DATA REPORTED SEPARATELY
CS DISSEMINATION
TOCS DISSEMINATION

EXTRA-AGENCY
INTRA-AGENCY
Hqs.
00/C
JMBARR (for COMKWESTFOR)
Panama City (for CINCSO)
Santo Domingo
Port au Prince
Miami reps of:
State
FBI
I&NS
Customs
Border Patrol
USCG

SUPPLEMENTAL DATA
DYVOUR JMPALM PBRUMEN

Source for paras. 1 to 3: UOAMBER-6 from Antonio Rojas Masferrer, 23 August 1965. Paras. 4 and 5: AMOT-84 from Raul Arango de la Noval (please protect) in DD-1559, 11 August 1965.

RI: Please card the following for the field:
LEON Fernandez, Homero, Cuban emigre, Involvement with Rolando MASFERRER in plot to invade Haiti, Leader of FACCE, Cit Cuba. A USA.

Group 1; Excluded from Automatic Downgrading and Declassification

--- Page 14 ---

14-00000

FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

GRADING OF SOURCE: A: Completely reliable. B: Usually reliable. C: Fairly reliable. D: Not usually reliable. E: Not reliable. (Applied to sources of doubtful honesty or loyalty, regardless of their competence). F: Reliability cannot be judged (Applied to untested or insufficiently tested sources).

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT: 1: Confirmed by other independent and reliable sources. 2: Probably true. 3: Possibly true. 4: Doubtful. 5: Probably false. 6: Cannot be judged.

CONFIDENTIAL
CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY: Haiti/Cuba/Dominican Republic
SUBJECT: Plans to Overthrow Government of Haiti by Leon Cantave and Rolando Masferrer Rojas
REPORT NO:
DATE OF REPORT: 24 August 1965
NO. PAGES: 3
REFERENCES:
DATE OF INFO: August 1965
PLACE & DATE ACQ: United States, Miami (11 and 23 August 1965).

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE: See below.

Source for paras. 1 to 3: Former Latin American diplomat who maintains relationships with officials of Latin American countries. Source is a trained reporter and his information has been reliable in the past. He received the information in this report from an associate of Rolando Masferrer Rojas.

1. On 20 August 1965 an associate of Rolando Arcadio Masferrer Rojas, former Cuban senator, said that Masferrer is in touch with General Leon Cantave regarding a plot to invade Haiti from the Dominican Republic. Masferrer is trying to recruit unmarried Cubans in New York who are willing to go to the Dominican Republic and eventually to live in Haiti. He does not want Cubans who would want to return to the United States because of family or for any other reason.

2. Masferrer asked Antonio Rojas Masferrer, his cousin, to manage a farm in the Dominican Republic which will be used as a training and staging area for about 100 men which Masferrer will recruit. This group will be enlarged by men which Cantave has in the Dominican Republic.

3. Cantave is negotiating with Dominicans to determine whether the recruits from New York will travel to the Dominican Republic with visas or whether they will enter the country illegally.

CONFIDENTIAL
CONTROLLED DISSEM

--- Page 15 ---

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL
CONTROLLED DISSEM

-2-
UFG-7482

Source for paras. 4 and 5: A member of a group of Cuban emigres trained in the techniques of information collection. The group has provided useful reports since 1961. This information is from another Cuban emigre who is associated with Homero Leon Fernandez.

4. On 9 August Homero Leon Fernandez said that Masferrer will arrive in Miami in August to complete preparations for an invasion of Haiti. He will bring 100 men from New York. In Miami they will be joined by 100 men from Brigade 2506 and 100 men from Leon's group. The 300 men will leave for an undetermined place from where they will invade Haiti.

5. According to Leon, Masferrer plans to use four boats and five aircraft for the invasion of Haiti. The aircraft will be used to bomb Santiago de Cuba, Oriente Province, Cuba, after Francois Duvalier has been overthrown.

Field Comment. Leon, a Cuban emigre, is a leader of the Fuerzas Armadas Constitucionales de Cuba en el Exilio (FACCE, Constitutional Armed Forces of Cuba in Exile).

--- Page 16 ---

14-00000

FBI doc
30 June 65 (Miami)
Re-Rolando Arcadio Masferrer Rojas
Bureau # 2-156

FBI cable
7 July 65
Re Dominican Situation

FBI cable
15 June 65
Re Dominican Situation

FBI doc
6 May 65 (Miami)
Re: Jorge L. Valdes Amable
Bureau #105-84265.

--- Page 17 ---

14-00000

SECRET
(WHEN FILLED IN)

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS
PRIOR TO FILING
1. Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back flap and forward to RID.
2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records significant action taken or comments requiring preservation.

FROM:
TO: ACTION BRANCH
If file no. and title shown are not proper, insert proper file no. below and forward document to RID/AN.

PROPER FILE NO.
RID/AN

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES
FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK. IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

Copy Detached
CSDB-312/01143-65

MICROFILMED
MAY 3 1965
DOC. MICRO. SER.

ABSTRACT
REQUEST

--- Page 18 ---

14-00000

MAR 10 1965

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Director
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D. C. 20505

ATTENTION: Deputy Director, Plans

Dear Sir;

For your information, I am enclosing communications which may be of interest to you.

No further investigation is contemplated with regard to this matter.
You will be advised of the pertinent developments in connection with this inquiry.

Please note change in caption of this case.

Status of case:
Completed
Incomplete

Very truly yours,

John Edgar Hoover
Director

(Upon removal of classified enclosures, if any, this transmittal form becomes UNCLASSIFIED)

--- Page 19 ---

14-00000

REPORT COVER SHEET
JMWAVE

REPORTING OFFICER
Francis D. RACHFIELD

REPORTS OFFICER
Margaret R. NANKALL

APPROVING OFFICER
Andrew K. REUTEMAN

BACKGROUND DATA AND COMMENTS:
DYVOUR JMPALM

SECRET
DATE OF REPORT
27 April 1965

Source: UOAMBER-6 from Miguel TABERNO Blas from Rolando MASFERRER Rojas.

RID: Please index the following names.
Aurea Esther POGGIO Aragon - DPOB: 11 March 1935 in Cuba Habana, Involved with Rolando MASFERRER Rojas in the storage of arms.
Rolando MASFERRER Rojas

Group 1: Excluded from Automatic Downgrading and Declassification

MICROFILMED
MAY 3 1965
DOC. MICRO. SER.

OPTIONAL: ENTRIES BELOW NEED NOT BE FILLED IN IF DUPLICATED IN ACCOMPANYING REPORT
DISTRIBUTION
INTRA-AGENCY
Hqs.
00/C
JMBARR
COS, Santo Domingo
COS, Port-Au-Prince
PANAMA CITY (for CIECSO)
Miami Reps:
State
FBI
EXTRA-AGENCY
Customs
I&NS

--- Page 20 ---

14-00000

FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

GRADING OF SOURCE: A: Completely reliable. B: Usually reliable. C: Fairly reliable. D: Not usually reliable. E: Not reliable. (Applied to sources of doubtful honesty or loyalty, regardless of their competence). F: Reliability cannot be judged (Applied to untested or insufficiently tested sources).

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT: 1: Confirmed by other independent and reliable sources. 2: Probably true. 3: Possibly true. 4: Doubtful. 5: Probably false. 6: Cannot be judged.

CONFIDENTIAL
CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY: Cuba/Haiti/Dominican Republic
SUBJECT: Alleged Transfer of Weapons to Miami by Rolando Masferrer Rojas, a Cuban Exile Leader
REPORT NO:
DATE OF REPORT: 27 April 1965
NO. PAGES: 1
REFERENCES:
DATE OF INFO: 16 April 1965
PLACE & DATE ACQ: United States, Miami

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE: Former Latin American diplomat who maintains relationships with officials of Latin American countries. Source is a trained reporter and his information has been reliable in the past.

1. As of about 16 April 1965, Rolando Masferrer Rojas, a Cuban exile leader, had been sending weapons to Miami, Florida, for use by Haitian exiles in an attempt to overthrow Haitian dictator Francois Duvalier. The arms were being stored in the home of Aurea Esther Poggio Aragon, a Cuban woman whose last known address was 1481 E. 8th Court, Hialeah, Florida. The weapons were to be transported to an undisclosed destination outside the United States.

2. In early April 1965, Poggio went to the Dominican Republic on behalf of Masferrer regarding the Haitian exile scene. When Poggio was out of Miami, the keys to her residence were left with Antonio Rojas Masferrer.

3. Field Comment: The same source reported in CSDB-3/661,878, dated 18 June 1964, that Masferrer had met with Poggio, among others, on 29 May 1964 regarding an expected revolt in Cuba.

--- Page 21 ---

14-00000

[Letter to Reference, Dept. of Justice]

This Agency is in possession of information which was obtained from a confidential source. The substance of which is as follows:

On Feb 28, 1965 UOAMBER-4 visited the office of Dr. Rodolfo Masferrer. He stated that he had received a letter from his brother Rolando Masferrer in which he claimed that he was visited by two U.S. Government officials in New York. These two officials allegedly

--- Page 22 ---

14-00000

asked him if he was ready to participate in an armed action against Cuba. Masferrer replied that he had been preparing himself for such action since his arrival from Cuba.

This letter, Masferrer made it clear that this was the first time he had been under consideration by the U.S. Government. He further estimated that he could round up immediately between 300 + 400 men.

--- Page 23 ---

14-00000

This agency does not currently have any relationship with Rolando Masferrer. It would be appreciated if your department would check and let this agency know, at your earliest convenience, if any members of your organization has been or currently in contact with the subject and what was discussed directed to Rolando Masferrer.

--- Page 24 ---

14-00000

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
TOTAL COPIES
FROM: JMWAVE
ACTION: WH/C 3
INFO: DDP, VR, FILE
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED
TYPIC YOBITE UOAMBER

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

SECRET 050059Z
DIR CITE WAVE 9086
65 IN 16168

ON 28 FEB 65 UOAMBER-4 VISITED OFFICE OF DENTIST RODOLFO MASFERRER WHO TOLD SOURCE HE HAD RECEIVED LETTER FROM HIS BROTHER, ROLANDO, IN WHICH ROLANDO CLAIMED HE WAS VISITED IN HIS NEW YORK OFFICE BY TWO ODYOKE OFFICIALS ON UNSPECIFIED DATE. THEY ALLEGEDLY ASKED HIM IF HE READY PARTICIPATE ARMED ACTION AGAINST PBRUMEN. HE REPLIED HE WAS AND HAD BEEN PREPARING HIMSELF FOR ACTION FROM FIRST DAYS HIS ARRIVAL PBPRIME. HE INDICATED IN HIS LETTER THAT FOR FIRST TIME HE UNDER CONSIDERATION BY ODYOKE. HE ESTIMATED HE COULD IMMEDIATELY ROUND UP 300 TO 430 MEN.

SECRET

The following action is
Rolando Manjerier

--- Page 25 ---

14-00000

FBI doc
19 Feb 65 (NY)
Re-Rolando Arcadio Masferrer Rojas
Bureau # 2-1622

--- Page 26 ---

14-00000

SECRET
(When filled in)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER-CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION
RI FILE NO.
DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.
DATE
SOURCE CRYPTONYM. DATE OF INFO. EVALUATION
DATE PROCESSED
DISSEMINATED IN
DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION
CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE
TRANSFERRED TO
BI FILE NO.
PERTINENT INFORMATION

MASFERRER ROJAS, ROLANDO
201-042669
SEX M DOB
CIT
OCC
019-006-095/04
WAVE-05976
11 DEC 64
UFG-06370

SUBJ OPERATES EIGHTH FORCE OF ASSAULT AND COMMANDOS, A GROUP WHICH TRAINS AT CAMP MARTI IN STATE OF NEW JERSEY

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

SECRET

FILE IN 201-042669

--- Page 27 ---

14-00000

SECRET
(When Filled in)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION
RI FILE NO.
DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.
DATE
SOURCE CRYPTONYM. DATE OF INFO. EVALUATION
DATE PROCESSED
DISSEMINATED IN
DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION
CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE
TRANSFERRED TO
BI FILE NO.
PERTINENT INFORMATION

MASFERRER ROJAS, ROLANDO
201-042669
SEX M DOB
200-009-038
UFG-06307
CIT CUBA
OCC
USA
08 DEC 64
WAVE-05812

RE COMMENTS ABOUT PAUL TOUSSAINT'S INVASION PLANS.

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

SECRET

FILE IN 201-042669

--- Page 28 ---

14-00000

FBI doc
8 Dec 64 (NY)
Re-Rolando Arcadio Masferrer Rojas
Haitian Revolutionary activities

FBI doc
3 Dec 64 (NY)
Re-Rolando Arcadio Masferrer Rojas

FBI doc
2 Dec 64 (Miami)
Re- Rolando Arcadio Masferrer Rojas

--- Page 29 ---

14-00000

SECRET
(When Filled In)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION
RI FILE NO.
DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.
DATE
SOURCE CRYPTONYM. DATE OF INFO. EVALUATION
DATE PROCESSED
DISSEMINATED IN
DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION
CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE
TRANSFERRED TO
FILE NO.
PERTINENT INFORMATION

MASFERRER ROJAS, ROLANDO
201-042669
SEX M DOB
CIT CUBA
OCC
HAITI
200-120-061
UFG-06267
26 NOV 64
WAVE-05253

RE SUBJ'S ATTEMPTS TO CONTINUE ASSOCIATION WITH HAITIAN EXILES IN THEIR OPERATIONS AGAINST HAITI.

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

SECRET

--- Page 30 ---

14-00000

FBI doc
20 Nov 64 (NY)
Re- Rolando Arcadio Masferrer Rojas

--- Page 31 ---

14-00000

SECRET
(When Filled in)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION
RI FILE NO.
DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.
DATE
SOURCE CRYPTONYM DATE OF INFO. EVALUATION
DATE PROCESSED
DISSEMINATED IN
DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION
CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE
TRANSFERRED TO
FILE NO.
PERTINENT INFORMATION

MASFERRER ROJAS, ROLANDO
201-042669
SEX M DOB
CIT CUBA
200-009-038
UFG-06213
17 NOV 64
WAVE-04913
OCC
USA

RPTDLY WAS VERY UPSET BECAUSE HE THOUGHT HAITIAN EXILES WANTED TO EXCLUDE HIM FROM COMBINED EFFORT TO INVADE HAITI.

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

SECRET

--- Page 32 ---

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

FROM: JMWAVE
ACTION: WH/SA 8
INFO: DDP, ADDP, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CA/O 4, CI, CI/OPS, CI/IC 2, FI, FI/D, FI/INT, IW, RI/AN, VR, FILE.
AD/CI 2, AD/NE.

SECRET 122311Z
DIR INFO LANT PACY BARR PRIN SDOM CITE WAVE 4726
INTEL DYVOUR JMPALM PBRUMEN

SUPDATA: AMCARACKLE-1 FROM ELISEO GOMEZ FERNANDEZ,
RID: INDEX.

FILED 122311Z
REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM
COUNTRY: HAITI/CUBA

SUBJ: ATTEMPT BY ROLANDO MASFERRER ROJAS TO OBTAIN TRANSPORTATION FOR HIS MEN OUT OF THE UNITED STATES

DOI: 10 NOVEMBER 1964
PADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (12 NOVEMBER 1964)
UFG-6199

SOURCE: U.S. CITIZEN WHO TEACHES SPANISH AT THE UNIVERSITY LEVEL AND WHO HAS HAD LONG RESIDENCE IN LATIN AMERICA. IS TRAINED IN THE COLLECTION OF INFORMATION.

IW COMMENT: NO DISSEMINATION OF THE ATTACHED TD PORTION OF THIS CABLE HAS BEEN MADE OUTSIDE THE AGENCY PENDING RELEASE BY THE ACTION UNIT.

--- Page 33 ---