14-00000
{104-10183-10043} | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DG: STEPHEN I. MUNGER
UNIT: DC/WE/4/X
XT: 5559
DATE: 3 JUNE 1963
INDEX: YES NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
X-REF TO FILE NO.
SIGNATURE

ROUTING
O: ROME
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: WE 6
INFO: DDP, CI, CI/OPS, CI/OA, CCS 2, FI, SAS 8, S/C.
ROME INFO
CITE DIR 44488

KEYWAY PERUMEN AMWHIP

1. AMWHIP/1 (IDEN A), LONG TIME KUBARK ASSET FOR PERUMEN OPS, WILL VISIT ROME 5 TO 15 JUNE TO OPEN JEWELRY STORE IN IDEN B. HAS OFFERED BE OF SERVICE TO STA IN ANY WAY. POSSIBLE INCLUDING FURNISHING COVER IN NEW STORE. THOUGH LEFT PERUMEN EARLY 1961, REMAINS PERSONA GRATA TO REGIME SINCE GAVE AID TO CURRENT REGIME DURING PRE-REVOLUTION DAYS AND TOOK NO OVERT OPPOSITION STAND. IS CONSIDERED BY CURRENT REGIME AS A POLITICAL BUSINESSMAN AND CAN ENTER OFFICIAL INSTALLATIONS MEET WITH PERUMEN DIPLOMATS. FOR EXAMPLE, PLANS PERUMEN PASSPORT AT EMBASSY, PARIS, ON CURRENT TRIP.

2. IN PARTNERSHIP WITH IDEN C WILL OPEN JEWELRY STORE ROME. SAYS IDEN C FULLY TRUSTWORTHY ANTI-REGIME AND COULD BE MADE WITTING OF ARRANGEMENTS MADE ROME IF SO DESIRED. IDEN C WAS WITTING SOURCE OF PEPRIME ODUNIT ATTACHE IN PERUMEN PRIOR 1961. 201-267956

3. AMWHIP/1 IS PARTNER IN NEW YORK OF IDEN D WHICH IS CLOSER TO IEE OF MILAN. COULD ALSO OFFER COVER IN IDEN E BUT BELIEVES THIS LESS SECURE SINCE HE HAS MORE DIRECT CONTROL OVER ROME JEWELRY STORE.

GS COPY
AUTHENTICATING COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

UNIT:
EXT:
DATE:

INDEX: YES NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
X-REF TO FILE NO.
SIGNATURE

ROUTING
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF:
INFO:
TO INFO:
CITE DIR 44793

4. RECOMMEND STA ESTABLISH CONTACT SOONEST DISCUSS VARIOUS OPS PROBLEMS POSSIBILITIES, INCL. COVER FOR PERUMEN OPS SUPPORT ASSET AS PLAINED. IF COVER FOR SUBJ DIR 38810 STILL UNRESOLVED, STA SHOULD RAISE PROBLEM WITH AMWHIP/1, REALIZING THOUGH THAT LATTER MAY BE RELUCTANT OFFER COVER IN OWN FIRM TO PERSON WHO BROKE CLAMOROUSLY WITH REGIME. STA MAY ALSO WISH ASK AMWHIP/1 VISIT OFFICIAL PERUMEN INSTALLATIONS ROME FOR MEETINGS ASSESSMENTS TARGET PERSONALITIES. STA SHOULD FEEL FREE DISCUSS ALL OTHER PERUMEN PROBLEMS DESIRED. IN ALL ABOVE, STA MUST ABIDE BY AMWHIP/1 JUDGEMENT. NOTE LATTER IS NOT PRINCIPAL AGENT TYPE CI RECRUITER. HAS BEEN HIGHLY VALUABLE AS WITTING INFORMANT, SPOTTER, OPS SUPPORT TYPE.

5. AMWHIP/1 WILL STAY WITH IDEN F. CAN BE REACHED THERE OR PREFERABLY THROUGH IDEN B MANAGEMENT. IN MILAN CAN BE REACHED THROUGH IDEN E. OFFICER MAKING CONTACT SHOULD IDENTIFY SELF AS FRIEND OF BILL THOMPSON AND REFER TO THOMPSON'S TALK WITH AMWHIP/1 OF 31 MAY IN NEW YORK. SHOULD USE ENGLISH IN INITIAL PHONE CONTACT. AMWHIP/1's ENGLISH AND ITALIAN ARE FAIR BUT RECOMMEND SUBSTANTIVE DISCUSSIONS BE HELD IN AMWHIP/1'S NATIVE LANGUAGE.

END OF MESSAGE

SAS/DOB (Mr. Wainwright) (in draft)
WE/5

COORDINATING OFFICER

SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
