```markdown
104-10182-10057

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS
FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME
WIROGUE
201-233477
VOLUME 1
INCLUSIVE DATES:
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:
ROOM
DELETIONS IF ANY
DATE
RECEIVED
DATE
RETURNED
JULY 78
REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)
DAN HARDWAY
SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

---

14-00000

The following documents have been located to further processing

Sent to RID/MIS
ACLW 172 17 Nov 60
ABPW - 2372 28 Nov 60
ACLW 23 Dec 60
EGCA 18888 12 Dec 62

DATE
RID/201
7-6-4
Initials
varded
Sent to FIT AN
Vol.
This list is to be destroyed after documents are returned to RD/Files

S-E-C-R-E-T

---

Mr. Ernest G. Maycrink
Dear Mr. Maycrink:

Effective 31 October 1960, all contracts, oral or written, by and between you and the United States Government, as represented by the Contracting Officer, are hereby terminated by mutual consent of the parties thereto, and in lieu thereof the following agreement is substituted.

The United States Government as represented by the Contracting Officer hereby contracts with you as an independent contractor for the submission of certain information and related services of a confidential nature under the following terms and conditions:

1. Compensation. In full consideration for the submission of such information and service, you will receive from the Government, payable in such an approved manner as you may direct in writing, the following:

(a) Basic compensation in an amount calculated at the rate of $6000 per annum.

(b) Additional compensation in an amount calculated at the rate of $3000 per annum for cost-of-living expenses (including quarters), effective upon your arrival at and applicable only to your contemplated permanent post of assignment overseas. Quarters will not be furnished you nor will you accept quarters provided by a cover facility without prior amendment of this agreement.

2. Taxes. Monies paid you directly or guaranteed by the Government under this paragraph constitute income for Federal tax purposes. You will be advised as to the method to be followed in reporting and paying such taxes. The method as well as the procedures used by this organization to implement its tax reporting responsibilities will be based primarily upon cover and security requirements. You herein authorize this organization to withhold taxes on said income if it determines such requirements so necessitate.

3. Travel. You will be advanced or reimbursed funds for travel and transportation expenses to and from your permanent post of duty overseas and for authorized operational travel. You may be entitled to per diem in lieu of subsistence during such travel and, when authorized, while on temporary duty away from your permanent post of assignment. All travel, transportation and per diem provided for under this paragraph must be properly authorized, and expenses incurred hereunder are subject to payment and accounting in substantial compliance with Government regulations.

4. Operational Expenses. You will be advanced or reimbursed funds for necessary operational expenses as specifically approved and financially limited by the Government. Such funds will be subject to payment and accounting in substantial conformance with applicable Government regulations.

5. Repayment. It is recognized that your failure to account for or refund any monies advanced you hereunder shall entitle the Government to withhold the total amount of such indebtedness or any portion thereof from any monies due you under the terms of this contract in such manner as it deems appropriate.

553477
RM

---

14-00000

6. Negotiated Benefits.

(a) (1) If, in the performance of activities under this agreement, you incur an injury or illness which is not the result of your gross negligence, willful misconduct, or intemperate act, the Government will provide medical, surgical, hospital, transportation and disability benefits in such amounts and under such conditions as the Government in its sole discretion deems proper provided, however, that such benefits shall not exceed a total of $5000 for the same injury or illness.

(2) If you die in the performance of activities hereunder and your death is not the result of your gross negligence, willful misconduct or intemperate act, the Government will pay the sum of $5000 to your beneficiary(ies) less any amount paid to you under sub-paragraph (1) above if such injury or illness resulted in your death, provided that said beneficiary(ies) is acceptable to the Government at the time such payment is to be made. An acceptable beneficiary hereunder is an individual to whom payment by the U.S. Government can be made without conflicting with its avowed principles and ideals.

(b) Outstanding performance by you under this agreement and your fulfillment of obligations hereunder in an efficient manner will result in the Government undertaking your resettlement in an area mutually agreeable to both parties, to the extent deemed appropriate by the United States Government.

7. Execution of Documents. If, in the performance of services under this contract, you assume the custody of Government funds or take title of record to property of any nature whatsoever and wherever situate, which property has in fact been purchased with monies of the U.S. Government, you hereby recognize and acknowledge the existence of a trust relationship, either express or constructive, and you agree to execute whatever documents may be required by this organization to evidence this relationship.

8. Status. You are not an employee of the United States Government under this agreement and are not entitled to any benefits normally incident to an employee status.

9. Funding. If necessary to protect the security of this arrangement, monies due you hereunder may be funded in other than a direct manner. It is understood and agreed that any monies so funded constitute payment by the Government in satisfaction of its obligations under this agreement.

10. Cover. (a) It is anticipated that you will undertake a cover venture in the course of your performance under this agreement. Such venture must be approved by the appropriate Government representative overseeing your activities prior to its initiation. Any and all documents which you may execute in the course of said cover venture are subordinate to this agreement and any contradiction in terms which in any way amplify, extend or restrict your rights and/or obligations hereunder shall be resolved by this agreement which shall always be dominant.

(b) To provide capital for your approved cover venture the Government will loan you $4000 to be secured by a non-interest bearing promissory note, payable on demand. Said loan will be deposited to an account in a foreign bank and a $3000 letter of credit will be issued you against that deposit. The additional $1000 will be released from said account, after approval by the Government representative overseeing your activities.

---

14-00000

(c) You will submit to the Government quarterly income and expense statements on the cover venture and copies of all tax returns filed in connection therewith. Your cover accounts shall be kept separate and distinct from the bank account into which your personal compensation payments are made.

(d) You herein agree that monies loaned you by the Government shall be repaid from the profits of the cover venture, in amounts and at periodic intervals to be established by the Government representative overseeing your activities. After said loan has been completely repaid and all other obligations, such as local taxes, etc., have been made, you may retain any further profit derived from said cover venture. However, it is clearly understood and agreed that your primary obligation under this agreement is the performance of Governmental activities.

11. Secrecy. All information related to this agreement conveyed through instructions, this instrument, or otherwise, is secret and shall not be divulged to any person, organization or government in any form or manner, except as authorized by the undersigned Contracting Officer executing this agreement. It is agreed that any revelation whatsoever of the above information will constitute and be an immediate and final breach of this agreement and will result in forfeiture by you of any and all benefits which may then have accrued to you by reason of this agreement.

12. Instructions. During the term of this agreement, and in your official cover capacity you herein agree to act in conformance with instructions, oral or written given you by authorized representatives of this organization.

13. Unauthorized Commitments. No promises or commitments pertaining to rights, privileges or benefits other than those expressly stipulated in writing in this agreement or any amendment thereto shall be binding on this organization.

14. Term. This contract is effective as of 1 November 1960, and shall continue thereafter for a period of two (2) years unless sooner terminated by the Government either:

(a) By sixty (60) days' actual notice to you from the Government, or

(b) Without prior notice, in the event of a breach of this contract by your violation of the security provisions hereof or by your otherwise rendering yourself unavailable for acceptable service.

Subject to the availability of appropriations, this agreement may be extended upon notice from the Government. In the event of voluntary termination on your part or termination for cause by the Government prior to the expiration of this agreement or any renewal thereof, you will not be entitled to return travel expenses to the United States. Termination or expiration of this agreement will not release you from the obligation of any security oath you may be required to take.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
BY
Contracting Officer

ACCEPTED:
Ernest G. Maycrink

WITNESS: Charles R. Roistade

---

14-00000

UNCLASS ONLY
CONFIDEN
SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

RECEIVED
DATE
OCT 1960
OFFICER'S
INITIALS
FORWARDED
Div. 2110-I. Bldg.
26/04/2

For Dave's file
Maybe you
can use some
of this
201-233477
INTERNAL
USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED
... GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1956.0-47673)

---

ANLA
...
SECRET
REDWOOD/REDSOX/AEACRE
S/C
ENCL
F
TO EGFA 32052
SR
TO Chief S
FROM
Chief of Base, Frankfurt
SECRET

---

14-Goo
SECRE
Attenment
to EGFA
REDSOX Spotting and Assessment
Rep
Subject: AEASPIC
DOB:
SPIC
Address:
Cover for Contact:
Friganza as Maj. Michael Long
Rostedt as George.
Notes on Contact:
Rostedt and Friganza took the night train to Paris, arriving morning
and discussed the AFASPIC case with the Paris station. Rostedt briefed COS/Paris
and others on current REDSOX. Rostedt and Friganza departed to meet Subject as
about 1130 hrs., taking extreme precautions against surveillance 6 April.
Subject did not appear at the rendezvous at 1200 hours. We waited until 1230
hours when Friganza decided to visit Annick to determine if Subject had been delayed.
En route to Annick Friganza changed his mind and returned to the rendezvous
(Georges V) where he saw Rocstedt with Subject. Subject had apparently gone to the
Georges VI rendezvous (which is understandable considering the hurried circumstances
of the previous parting when the rendezvous was discussed), had waited perhaps 1/2
hr. and then decided he had better check the Georges V. On arrival at the Georges V
Restedt immediately recognized him, approached the taxi which Subject had left and
re-entered, looked hard at Subject who caught the significance of Rostedt's extra-
ordinary attentions, ordered the taxi around the corner, paid him his due fare, and
re-joined Rostedt. It was at this moment that Friganza returned on intuition.
Over
The trio then went to lunch, taking a circuitous route by foot and taxi.
Over lunch from about 13-15 hours Rostedt had an opportunity to acquaint himself with
Subject and to put to Subject several questions concerning willingness and the job.
After lunch Friganza and Rostedt decided that under the circumstances it would
be advisable to keep Subject in Paris rather than risk his arrest travelling between
Paris and Ambert or returning to Gap to have his carte d'identite, revalidated.
Accordingly while Rostedt spent the next hrs. or so with Subject, Friganza
returned to the Paris Station where he asked for the use of 13 rue Weber safehouse.
Paris Station had committed the safehouse for the night of 6 and 7 April as well
as the morning of 8 April but beginning late afternoon 8 April the house was
assigned for the use of AFASPIC. Arrangements were made to have Platipodis who
knows Subject to be at the safehouse at 1650 hours (alternate 2350 hrs.) on 8 April.
Subject was Instructed to go to the safehouse, ring 4 longs; 2 short, whereupon
he would be admitted by Platipodis. He was likewise given the name John Sandor and
told that in the event of unavoidable inquiry he should claim that he had been lent
the apartment by Tom Brown, a friend of John Sandor. He was instructed not to
answer the phone and not immediately to answer the door. If after persistent ringing
he felt obliged to answer the door, he should pretend he had drunk too much wine,
was sleeping heavily, and should come to the door appearing groggy. Subject was
further Instructed to stay in the safehouse during daylight hours and to venture out
at night only if necessary to buy food, eat, etc. He was told that Prigunza would
return for him sometime between 15 and 16 April.
Between 6 and 8 April Subject will stay with Annick. During the day he will
avoid the house, going to movies, etc., appearing only at night to sleep.
Subject was paid France 49,874 (exactly $100).
SECRET
Anthony H. Friganza
Case Officer

---

14-00000

April 1959
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief of Station, Germany
Attn:
Chief of Base, Frankfurt
FROM
SUBJECT Application for Issuance of Bundesrepublik
Personalausweis for Operational Use
2. Personal Details on the Person to whom Issued:
(a) Name: Martin
(b) Alias:
(c) Last name: Reiner
(d) First name: Franz
(e) Date of birth: 18 September 1919, Trier
(f) Place of birth:
(g) Eyes: Brown
(h) Build: Mittel
(i) Weight: 56 kg.
(j) Nationality: German
(k) City of residence: Anything convenient
(l) Place of Issuance of BdPA: Anything convenient.
3. Reason for Request: This document may be needed to bring AEASPIC
from France to Germany. It would be used only after discussion with Dexter
E. Rostedt from AEACRE and with the approval of Chief of Base, Frankfurt and
Chief of Station, Paris to move Subject in this fashion. I have checked to
determine whether Subject can move without considerable danger in this fashion
and if it is customary; he can and it is.

4. Subject will need no other documents, being that this will be a
one time use to cross at Strasbourg. This document is being requested in the
event that it is needed for the 6 April meeting in Paris with Subject. Per
cables from Headquarters Rostedt is empowered to decide whether Subject should
be brought to Germany and if so, it would save one extra trip to Paris if this
document were carried by the undersigned to the 6 April meeting so that he
could be brought directly to Germany.

5. Photographs have already been given to the MKTOPAZ officer.

Anthony H. Friganza

Approved:
Deputy for Operations, COS

STORET

---

14-00000

Subject: AEASPIC
203:
Attachment
to EGFA
REDSOX Spotting and Assessment
Report
Date 25 March 1959
Address:
Cover for Contact:
Notes on Contact:
The undersigned arrived in Paris on the morning of the 25th of March and went
to the safehouse where the LCFLUTTER operator had spent the night was shortly
to meet Subject at the Cafe Les Sport near the Port Maillot. Subject passed by
as we were having coffee and according to instructions waited elsewhere. We
left while the operator collected Subject and took him to the house, enabling us
to return at about 1100 hours.
Subjects was dismissed for lunch at about 1145, whereupon the operator and
the undersigned returned to the office where after a quick lunch the
questions for the examination were prepared.
The operator met Subject, returned
to the house, and began the examination at about 1430, it having been agreed
we would appear at the safehouse promptly at 1630. We did this to find that the
operator had not concluded the examination but there was sufficient time to
continue which he did. The examination was completed about 1845 hours, whereupon
we were informed by the operator that in his opinion Subject was not attempting
to deceive on any important points, even though some of the more prosaic aspects
of his biography continue to defy logical acceptance.

We then discussed future meeting arrangements with Subject: Subject will
appear in front of the Cafe Georges V on the Champs Elysees at 1214 and 16 hours
on 6 April. He will wait for five minutes in front of the cafe but will not
enter. If we are not there he will return for the alternate. In any event
alternate contact will be made through Annick. Subject was instructed to clear
up his affairs in Ambert and be prepared to depart for Germany; however, it was
also explained to Subject that we were not authorized to make a final commitment
to Subject and that much as we regretted this, this would be left until 6 April.
Subject was paid Francs 15,500 for which no receipt was obtained since we were
in a hurry to catch a plane for the Hague. If Subject has any difficulties he
will write Annick. He will not return to Gap. He expects to stay with Josef
Dassaud in Ambert until the night of 5 April when he will travel to Paris by
train. It was further agreed that on or about 4 or 5 April Subject will have
sent a letter to Annick for "Mike" in which he will conform his arrival and in
double talk inform us if he has had any trouble.

We discussed with Platipodis of the Paris station the need to send "Maurice"
to Annick on 4 or 5 April to see if Subject had written.

SECRET
Anthony H. Friganza
Case Officer

---

14-00000
Subject: AEASPIC
DOB:
Address:
Cover for Contact
Notes on Contact:
SECRET
Attachment
to EGFA
REDSOX Spotting and Assessment
Report
20 March 1959: Upon the receipt of DIR
the undersigned borrowed a car
from the Paris station on 19 March and drove that night to Moulins, arriving about
9 o'clock. From the principal hotel in this town a call was made to Subject who
was informed that we would arrive at Ambert at about 12 o'clock, and we agreed to
meet at the railroad station at 1200 hours. We proceeded to Vichey where we changed
clothes and bathed and arrived at Ambert about 1220 Subject was waiting. He re
turned the car lent by Dassaud, one of his business partners, to the residence cum
work shop at 14 rue St. Josef We waited outside for Subject who came out, got
into the car and we drove to a restaurant which we left immediately as it was too
crowded and returned on foot to 14 rue St. Josef house where our conversation was
held. Incidentally, Subject showed the undersigned around the work shop and
demonstrated how the machine and the
for it are made. One cannot
help but marvel at Subject's ingenuity and ability as a tinkerer and pseudo-sort
of engineer. He said they are producing about 300 a month, sell a few more than
this at 48,000 Francs a piece (nearly $100). However, Subject gets no income other
than pocket money, free room and board where he now lives, and will not receive
Taking
any until the capital outlay of his other two partners has been amortized.
the bull by the horns we explained to Subject the delay: A telegram had been sent
to "certain colleagues" in Paris who were supposed to write a letter to be for -
warded to Subject. The man to whom the telegram was sent was on leave and upon
return he was not notified of the telegram we sent; consequently, Subject was not
informed as he should have been. We are terribly sorry and hope that Subject would
appreciate such a minor matter. In any event we reminded Subject that he had not
been promised a letter on or about 1 February but rather told that he could expect
to hear from us then. Subject agreed this was so.

Subject was far less interested in explanation than a decision. He rhetorically
asked whether he was acceptable, adding he was obliged to assume he was not, and
commenting that although there are "many two legged people in America also" he
thought he was probably a unique person from the point of view of language ability,
experience as an operator in dangerous situations, etc. We replied thus: One man
(the psychologist) has already come all the way from the States just to see Subject
and another was on his way. From this subject could fairly conclude the importance
"Headquarters" attaches to Subject's candidature and that far from being a dead
Issue, Subject's prospects were good, although all depended on him.

We then turned to the matter of subject coming to Paris. Subject explained
that Paul ( ) had been sent by the Paris station
to Annick and had not done very well. He had failed to convince Annick that he was
sent by Mike (Friganza) and apparently although we did not go into the details of
this, he did not get the message straight. In any case Subject immediately said
that he could come to Paris anytime, although he would be obliged to travel
illegally. This because he had permitted his identity document to expire as of 14
February 1959. However, Subject felt he could make the journey by train without
being caught because the police are not checking most trains. He did not want to
travel by car because he had heard there are occasional road blocks (this may be
true for the undersigned ran into one on the drive from Paris to Ambert). Subject
also said he could stay as long as need be but it was absolutely essential that he
not be obliged to stay at a hotel -- he could either stay with Annick or at a place
put at his disposal by us.

Case Officer
SECRET

---

14-00000
Attachment
to EGFA
DSCX Spotting and Assessment
Report
Subject: AEASPIC
DOB:
Address:
Cover for Contact
Notes on Contact:
Knowing that the LCFLUTTER operator could get to Paris in two days we asked
Subject to take the train on the morning of February. He agreed to do this.
He said it would be necessary for him (if he is accepted) to return to Ambert
once more; it will not be necessary for him to return to Gap. After discussing this
and paying Subject Francs 10,000, we drove by the railroad station where Subject
checked on train schedules and we parted. In regard to the lapse of the validity
of Subjects documents Subject said: After the 7-10 January meeting in Paris he
had driven back to Ambert; he did not return to Gap; he has been living illegally
in Ambert since his return from Paris on 11 January. He has failed to extend his
document because he calculated he would leave France before the document expired.
Subject surmises that if he were obliged to return to Gap he might be able to
talk his way out of trouble but he might be given two weeks in jail as a sharp
reminder of the necessity to validate documents promptly.
March
21 March 1959: Subject was met by the undersigned at the Gare Austerlitz at
2040 hours. Henry C. Ladue of the Paris station counter-surveilled the meeting and
our progress from the station by foot and then by metro to the Severes Babylon
station. Ladou is certain that our meeting was not surveilled. After going our
way from Ladou, we took a taxi to the Opera, switched taxis and then went to
the safehouse in the rue Weber 14. After Subject washed and shaved we drove in the
car provided by the station to Les Halles where we had dinner at the Pied de Cochon.
We returned to the apartment at about 22 hours, talked for another hour or so while
having a drink, and then retired. During this conversation Subject was encouraged
and prompted to develop thoughts on a variety of matters which we hoped would tend
to give us better grounds on which to assess him. Nothing of particular operational
or biographic significance was discussed.

22 March 1959: After breakfast Subject was asked to wait until we returned. We
went with Ladou to the airport to meet the LCFLUTTER operator. After the operator
arrived we decided on a program and returned to the apartment and suggested that
Subject spend the afternoon on his own and agreed on a 2230 rendezvous not far from
Port Maillot and the safehouse where subject was met. We walked to the safehouse
and retired at about midnight.

23 March 1959: We arose at 6, left the apartment by about 8:40, walked to a cafe
where we breakfasted, and then per arrangement passed the corner of Pert Maillot
and rue Malakoff at which time the LCFLUTTER operator observed us and followed us
to the apartment. We showed Subject upstairs and left the apartment where we met
the operator and took him upstairs and introduced him as Mr. Brown. After a very
brief introduction with no explanation, we absented ourselves from the room while
the operator reviewed Subject's biography in preparation for the LOFLUTTER examination.
At about 1245 hours Subject left the apartment on his own, it having been agreed to
meet him on the Avenue Grand Amee in front of the Tout Bien cafe. The FLUTTER
operator returned to the Paris station office with us where it was agreed that the
undersigned would go to Germany and return to Paris on 24 or 25 March. The operator
met Subject at the rendezvous and took him to the apartment. After making arrange-
ments for tickets, etc., we returned to the apartment, where we interrupted Subject
and the operator. During this brief meeting Subject was paid a further 39,000
Francs, making a total of Francs 49,000 or $100. He was instructed to spend the
night of 23 and 24 March chez Annick and we would return to see him again on 25 March.

Anthony H. Friganza
Case Officer
SECRET
Our false
No security flaps although the potential is there for a beautiful one:
identity documents together with Subject's lack of any legal documentation is raw
material sufficient for this

---

14-60.00
·D HENDRYCK S. VINCENT
22
IM TRUTZ FRANKFURT 13/1
FRANKFURT/MAIN/
WEST DEUTSCHLAND

---

14-0000
John Wintere
Abs loh
435
champo Elyouc Pans (8)

---

14-00000
Was
Liber Nike
Habe? Ich habe seit lange zeit
keine nachricht bekommen zuit die letzte brief .5.1.5.6
Ich will
wissen
ob ich bald was kriegen werde
oder wie lange muss ich noch erwarten um ich sicher
sein
kann.
Schreiben sie dat
3.6. spiel,
wenn mehr piatlichkeit ist nicht möglich.
Schreiben sie an
vor oder nach,
Quick (unter & linschlage). Sie
macht das weiter, weil ich bin nicht mehr in meiner
alter adresse (for weningsten nach 15 tage).
Eine telegram wurde nich besser.
Fremdichaftlich
P.S. ffeine adresse ist bei Quick
wenn sie
verlangin.

---

14-00000
Subject: AEASPIC
DOB:
Dates of Interview: 10 Jan 1959
1. Subject was met in Paris by the case officer and examiner and
submitted to an intensive preliminary psychological examination.
Subject was
examined via a French interpreter. The interpreter has been requested to
submit his own assessment to the undersigned.
2. Subject is 40 years of age. He was born on the 12th of July,
1918, in Georgia, USSR. At that time Georgia was a free country and not
part of the USSR.
3. Subject regards his parents as nobles and he feels that their
status had a great influence on his behaviour in the period which followed
the family's immigration into France in 1921. Subject feels he acquired a
certain prejudicial class attitude. In other words he feels
and abided by the principle of noblesse oblige.
that if you pretend to be something, you have to act accordingly. His
concept of nobility has evolved into a concept of dignity and pride in his
work.
5. The family left Georgia when the Subject was three. They fled
before the Soviet invasion. Subject feels that his real existence began
at this point. Because the father had provided himself with certain monies,
the family was able to live comfortably and even opulently. However, the
vicissitudes of life brought the family progressively to material degradation
and financial difficulties which greatly influenced Subject's way of think-
ing thereafter. Whereas the family had previously lived in an artificial
feudalistic way, life became tough. Subject feels that the family was
brought into a more direct contact with reality and that this was not
necessarily a bad influence.
6. Subject actually did not want to leave Georgia. He felt it was
a flight rather than a tactical retreat. Apparently he has never been
able to accept this humiliating defeat and it may be that part of his
current motivation for affiliation involves his perception of an opportunity
to take countermeasures against the Soviets. He is a person who cannot
tolerate being beaten in competition.

---

14-00000

Subject was a non-disciplined child and was in constant rebellion
against his teachers whom he felt did not discriminate intelligent children
or pay him sufficient individual attention. Apparently his rebellious be-
haviour was his way of getting attention. He felt his teachers were too
distant and automatically unpleasant. He engaged in practical jokes and
was an activist in the school situation. As a result he was kicked out of
one school after another and has a history of attending 18 different
schools. The least that can be said of this strange behaviour, is that he
was undisciplined and has always refused to abide by the conformist atti-
tude of his peers. On the contrary he has always felt compelled to
do those things not normally done by others. The 18 schools, generally
speaking, represent frustration, the seeking of an aim to pursue, and the
hope that his ideal would crystallize and materialize. Subject is rather
abstract in this respect. Generally, it would seem that his ideal is
first of all material and perhaps also moral comfort and security.
However, he has always regarded his society, through his disappointments and
mortifying experiences, as wicked and selfish in its majority. Since
he felt society was selfish and mean, he expressed his dissatisfaction
in the form of aggressive and destructive behaviour. Apparently Subject
was a precocious child and he experienced disillusionment in his family
and in society. It is as if he suddenly discovered to his great dis-
appointment that there was no Santa Claus.

8. At first Subject felt his disillusionment was unique and peculiar
to his particular life experience, but he soon discovered that his dis-
content was characteristic of others. He experienced this fighting
attitude within himself and he reflected it in his non-conforming be-
haviour.

9. His mother reacted to his behaviour with over-affectionate
solicitousness. She wasn't actually able to determine the reasons for his
internal distress, but she was aware something was taking place within him.
The mother was apparently a marked conformist who insisted that Subject
abide by the social order. She took him to a psychiatrist because of his
behaviour problems and because she did not advise him of what she was
doing and got him to a psychiatrist on a subterfuge, and because Subject
did not agree with the psychiatrist's conclusions, he did not benefit
by this experience. This indicates to us that in handling Subject it

---

14-00000

would be wise not to approach him as if he were the problem, but to permit
him to maintain his posture that he is right and solely
In other words we must avoid doing what his mother did to him.
This
10. Subject has always indulged in a sort of introspection and
self-analysis, the purpose of which was to determine how to realize his
aspirations. Another aspect of his system of ideals proceeds from the
life concept of chivalry which he feels his parents inculcated: This in
volves the defense and the protection of the oppressed and the weak.
This
is sort of a Robin Hood concept which he attributes to himself.
chivalrous ideal is active to date. He feels that many people need help
and he has always wanted to help others in order to help himself. In other
words he is motivated to helping others in order to obtain love and
affection. This need for love and affection is probably the most primary
of his motives.

11. In respect to the flight of the family from Georgia, Subject feels
he was too young to understand it. However, he feels he revolted against
it. His idea is that one must fight, surpass and conquer. As a young boy
he felt he was much stronger than several million men. This is extremely
important as regards utilization of his services. First of all he is
motivated to succeed out of a spirit of revenge, and secondly he is self-
confidant and optimistic that he will succeed despite the hazards of the
undertaking. He is like a man who wants to kill an elephant all he
wants from us is a high-powered rifle then he feels he would be equal
to the elephant.
--
12. Subject also seems to reflect disappointment in his father as
a personal ideal. He regards his father as a very independent person,
kind but profoundly selfish, but who would nevertheless give you the
shirt off his back. His father was fond of the children, loved the whole
family and was happy when he saw others happy. However, Subject is con-
vinced that if his father had succeeded, none of the things that happened
in his life would have come to pass. He feels that his mother's suicide
is a direct consequence of his father's failure to succeed.

13. When his father and sister returned to Georgia, Subject was driven
to despair by the breaking-up of the family. The death of his mother and
the departure of his father and sister was quite a threat to his security.

---

14-00000

He tried to hold his father back and even threatened him that because of
a French law according to which a foreigner must pay his taxes before he
leaves the country the father ran the risk of being arrested. When he
told this to his sister, she became angry with him and replied that the
father was mature enough to act as well as possible. Subject's attempt
to prevent his father from leaving was conflictual for him because it
represented an interference with his father's desire and project. This
experience taught him that when his father had taken a decision, he would
carry it through at any cost. As it happened, the result was the dis-
integration of the family. If Subject found himself in the same
situation today, he would act in exactly the same way.

14. The father apparently returned to Georgia because he wanted to
die in Georgia. Subject feels that his father was doing something important
to realize his objectivity or to achieve his purpose. However, he feels
his father accepted defeat by returning to Georgia to die. The mother
did not go with the father and apparently was at her wits end after the
father left. Subject regards his mother as the axle of the family and
when he lost her through suicide, he feels she deserted him.

15. Subject's sister followed her father to Georgia out of a spirit
of affection and sacrifice. She felt that her father needed her and
Subject feels she was a tributary of his mistakes. The sister has a Ph.D.
in languages and taught courses