```markdown
14-00000

104-10291-10016 [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: DCD/FIO/740
ROOM: 913 Key Bldg

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE RECEIVED RETURNED
REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)
SIGNATURE OF REVIENING OFFICIAL

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

10. Wackenhut Corporation

Material retrieved through use of supplementary index.

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

[DIRECTORATE OF INTELLIGENCE]

REPORT NO. 00-A(S)-322/06270-74
DATE 19 March 1974
COUNTRY Algeria NO. PAGES 1
SUBJECT Possible Identification and Surveillance REFERENCES
of "CIA Agents" by the Algerian Security
Service

OPERATIONAL INFORMATION REPORT

This report has been prepared by the DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE, DDI. The operational information contained
herein may not be disclosed to personnel outside of the CLANDESTINE SERVICE, CIA, without the prior permission
of the Domestic Contact Service.

SOURCE US citizen, a former intelligence officer who is employed
with a firm that conducts business on a worldwide scale.
A representative of a US company with contracts in Algeria
in early March 1974 held a personal conversation on business
matters with a high level Algerian Foreign Ministry Official
(otherwise unidentified) in Algiers. The Algerian mentioned
that his government has become increasingly concerned with
the expanding presence in Algeria of US citizens, who are
in the country as a result of the growing number of US
business contracts. Almost in passing, the Algerian noted
that his government is suspicious that many of the Americans
might be US Intelligence agents. In fact, he claimed that
Algerian security authorities "already have identified six
CIA Agents", and that these individuals "are under close
surveillance". The US businessman did not want to appear
too inquisitive, and so he did not probe for any further
information on this matter. He is not able to provide the
names of the individuals who are under suspicion.

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000

Possible Identification and Surveillance of "CIA Agents" by the
Algerian Security Service

DOMESTIC COLLECTION DIVISION
Support Branch Section
Room 900, Key Building - Ext. 2808

Mr. Evan Ames
WH 26912
12 March 1974

AF/E/Algeria
ATTN: Polly Ann Nowell
GC 325 Has.

Attached for your information
is a copy of HIN-00-A(S)-322/06270-74.

Source of report is former
DCD Chief of the Miami Field
Office. He learned this informa-
tion from a co-worker who had just
returned from Algeria. Source
does not believe the man has any
additional details.

E-2 IMPDET CL BY 007622

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL
(when filed in)

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS

FOR FIELD USE ONLY FOR HEADQUARTERS USE ONLY

REQ. CODE CASE NUMBER FORWARDED
MO. DAY YR RELEASED

SUBJECT AND AREA
Possible Identification and Surveillance of "CIA Agents" by the
Algerian Security Service

CONTACT (Name, Title, Organization, Address)
Justin F. Gleichauf
Wackenhut Corporation
3280 Ponce De Leon Boulevard
Coral Gables, Florida

SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)
Same as above.

INDIVIDUAL NO. ORGANIZATION NO.
TYPE OF GRAPHICS, MAPS,
PUBLICATION REPORTS, OTHER
SUBJECT AREA

SUB-SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)
INDIVIDUAL NO. ORGANIZATION NO.

METHOD OF COLLECTION EVALUATION REQUESTED FROM
INTERVIEW USSR ONLY
TRIP REPORT EXCHANGES
OTHER DOCUMENT (CHECK ONE)
OTHER (specify below) NO TO USSR
FROM USSR
SUP SOV INT RESPONSIVE TO SPECIFIC
REQUIREMENTS

FIELD COMMENTS HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS

U.S. citizen, a former intelligence
officer who is employed with a firm that
conducts business on a worldwide
scale.

Mr. Gleichauf, who as you know is
the former Chief of the Miami and Dallas
Field Offices, currently is employed
with a company with extensive contractual
arrangements overseas. He learned the
information contained in this report
quite by chance from a co-worker who
returned from Algeria last week. Mr.
Gleichauf believes that the co-worker
does not have any further details.

Process sheet typed in OSS.
(DCD/Miami 12495)

AF/N/Algeria
WH 26912

CASE OFFICER DIVISION/STAFF/DESK
Hennessey OSS
F.O. CHIEF
Mainwaring

FORM CONFIDENTIAL
7-72 CL BY 007622
EX-2 IMP. DET.

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL 1910-92 MAN 74 INTEL
CIT: 1496

WACHENHUT CORPORATION, 3280
PONCE DE LEON BOULEVARD, CORAL GABLES, FLORIDA
111:452

SOURCE: JUSTIN F. GLEICHALF

KILLED'S

CIA

AL

CITY SE

FOR TILLILO OFFER THE IS
THAT CON LUSTANGS ON A
PRO 8.7.

LY 197
21TH A I
TY ADA

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000

7577713 259. THE LOW
T. I .OT TAI 1 PLATO IMLISITIVE, AD
801 NOT PROFEO AY RUTHEN INPORTATION ON INIS MATTER
HE 15 KOT ML TO FAGUID
OF THE INDIVIDUAL
LADEN GLP10109. 3 OF
APC

7. FIL RENA/KG: 1. GLLICKALF, WHO AS YOU KNOW IS IFS
FORMER CHEF OF IN START WALLS FIELD, CAILY
1 LOYED WITH A CONTATTAL
AT 65,
THE INCONTINE IN THIS
E BY CRANCLATURED PROM
ALCEPTA BA
BOOT APA PUT

FOON!
J. F.
.Y.

LIEVES THAT THE CO
PROF TYRON COPY OF
I POET CLAY

--- Page 8 ---

14-00000

Julian KG Data/Reported from #1 Salvador
KM-20901
George S. Emalin/ta
19 March 1970
HH 20901
C/TEB/2
3 B 4402 Eq.

Attached for your information
and possible interest
be
00-A(3)-322/5120-70,
ane's. Please
collection of this ini
to your services. That
fucidents occur oceast
wo can obtain detalle
Information if dosin
service spacific c
requirements which
to advance. Ka v
reply. Parthor
of this mater
your discret

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000

Julian KG Data/Reported from #1 Salvador
George S. Emalin/ta
19
-20901
C/R/2
3 B 4402 Eq.

Attached for you
and possible interest
00-A(3)-322/6120-
anclosurs. Please
collecttia of thi
is of some operst:
to your services.
incidents occur
we can obtain der
information if da
servicò specific
requirements which
to advance. We' po
reply. Further d'
of this materi
your discretie

--- Page 10 ---

14-00000

SECRET
(When Filled In)

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS

FOR FIELD USE ONLY

A. FIELD REPORT
OFFICE NUMBER

P. SUBJECT AND AREA
Panamanian National, Julian NINO Ruiz, Deported
El Salvador/Limited Biographies
(Panama/El Salvador/Chile)

Henry L. Sayler, Development Manager
THE WACKENHUT CORPORATION
300 Bird Road
Coral Gables, Florida

16. SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)
INDIVIDUAL NO. ORGANIZATION NO.

SUB-SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)
INDIVIDUAL NO. ORGANIZATION NO.

A. METHOD OF COLLECTION EVALUATION REQUESTED FROM
Car Document Trip Report USSA ONLY.
HELD COMMENTS ATZ: OSS EXCHANGES
(CHECK ONE)
Other (specify below) NO TOUSSE
FROM USSR

Please advise if this infor-
mation is of interest. These
type of incidents occur
occasionally and we can obtain
detailed information if desired.

HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS

SECRET

--- Page 11 ---

14-00000

SECRET

COUNTRY: Panas/El Salvador/Chile
SUBJECT: Panamanian National, Julian NINO Ruiz, Deported from El Salvador/ Limited Biographica
XMDM OM(S) 322/06120-70
13 March 1970

1. On 5 and 6 Mar 70 guard personnel from The Wackenhut Corporation
were contracted to provide guard services for the subject to insure his
departure from the US while changing plano at Miami International Airport.
While supervising the guard service, the following information was obtained.

2. Subject is a Panamanian national, an alleged Communist, deported
from El Salvador for political reasons. Government of Panama refused to
accept entry of subject; Chile agreed to accept him. Subject had no pass-
port or visa, only various "emergency" papers. Physical description:
Black male, 5'6", 140 pounds, about 35 years of age, gold filled teeth.

3. Subject was being transported from El Salvador to Chile via Lo
Chilean Airlines and arrived at the Miami International Airport at 2211
hours on 5 Mar 70. He was taken to the Len Chile VIP room where he was
guarded until his time of departure at 0545 on 6 Mar 70 for his destination
in Chile. There was to be a layover in Lima, Peru, where it was feared
that subject might attempt an escape.

4. At the Miami International Airport subject was met by the Panama
Consul General (name unknown) and the El Salvadoran Consul General,
Ricardo Dutriz, 208 Pan American Bank Building, 150 EC Third Avenue, Miami,
Florida, Telephone 371-8850. Both Consuls stated subject was being de-
ported for political reasons, El Salvadoran Consul stated that subject
a criminal and a Communist; Panamanian Consul stated he was a criminal.
Both considered subject to be dangerous and both felt that he might attempt
an escape.

5. Subject's luggage contained a black beret with a red medallion
it shaped like a shield with gold stitching on it which was not readable.

6. Subject allegedly was a member of a gang charged with murder
and performing perverted acts on 20 people in El Salvador.

7. The attached paper contains a list of name, addresses, and telephone
number of individuals in Miami who subject was supposed to contact upon
his arrival in the Miami area. When asked if he might do so, his answer
was denied by officials. However, the El Salvadoran Consul General made
a copy of the document, and I complied with his request. Subject was not
aware of a copy being made as nothing had been said in front of him. How-
ever, when the document was returned to him he finely smelled it as
if there was an odor of copier fluid; he was apparently satisfied that a
copy had not been made as he said nothing and just quietly put it away.

--- Page 12 ---

14-00000

HOTEL
INTERCONTINENTAL
Judith Herrera "is thin
tono de casa 519577 que de
con les pâñamos ar fist
Samodis Stedda Alvarado
39 1/2 1. M. 9 Ave. Miami Florida
Alto "Tito" Barria
3712165 me te Dongs
isdes
tacto
modio Arias Quardia
A465940
Stre
namores.
Localizar
mian

Te
TAca trabajala ka
salucos
répidamente
da
puce con
TACA es en cualquiora de las otras
JOCTOR CAR LO
Young Adamie
LIEBER TO
TO ZURITA
en el down town de
LINA PORU
En
Telefone
5-6787

les pregunta la direcion

Rose Marel

--- Page 13 ---

14-00000

PERSONNEL:
Wackenhut,
Sayler, Henry
A201550

REMARKS:
8154531
- Berchmans
dward
300 Bird Road
les, Florida
Dire

Wackenhut Services, Inc., 3280 Ponce de Leon Blvd., Coral Gables, Florida

--- Page 14 ---

14-00000

SECRET 2219152 JUN 76 STAFF
CITE UCD/HEADQUARTERS 15633
TO: PRIORITY
FROM USG/FRENCH
15-45-31
JUN 22
SUBJECT CASE 65805 - LA DIVISION REQUEST FOR CONTACT OF
WACKENHUT CORPORATION OFFICER

1. THIS CASE IS RESPONSIVE TO REQUIREMENT CONTROL NUMBER
CFLA-70449 AND OBJECTIVE Y.

LA DIVISION HAS REQUESTED DCD ASSISTANCE IN RECONTACTING, BRUCE
BERGHMANS, JR, DIRECTOR OF INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS OF WACKENHUT
CORPORATION, CORAL GABLES, FLA. LA DIVISION PROVIDED THE FOLLOW-
ING ADDRESS AND TELEPHONE NUMBER 3941 MIDWAY ST, MIAMI, TEL.
(305) 443-2260. BERGHMANS IS A FORMER AGENCY NON-OFFICIAL COVER
OFFICER WHO WAS ASKED TO RESIGN FROM THE AGENCY IN 1970.

2. THROUGH AN LA DIVISION OFFICER, TOM CLINES, BERGHMANS HAS
REQUEST CONTACT WITH AN AGENCY REPRESENTATIVE AS HE HAS FOR-
MATION MAY BE OF INTEREST TO THE AGENCY. THE NAME OF TOM
CLINES MAY BE USED TO FACILITATE CONTACT WITH BERGHMANS AS THEY
BELIEVE THAT BERGHMANS MAY HAVE INFORMATION ON POLITICAL DEVELOP-
MENTS IN JAMAICA.

3. LA DIVISION HAS EMPHASIZED THAT THIS REQUEST IS ONLY IN
RESPONSE TO BERGHMANS REQUEST FOR CONTACT WITH THE AGENCY. LA
DIVISION HAS NO OPERATIONAL INTEREST IN BERGHMANS NOR HIS COMPANY.
OFFICE OF GENERAL COUNSEL HAS CONCURRED TO CONTACTING BERGHMANS
BY DCD MIAMI. POST CL BY D:1687

SECRET

--- Page 15 ---

14-00000

Chief, Domestic Collection Division
Operations Services Group/OSS (Stetson)
Chief, Denver Field Office
Headquarters Inquiry re Private Intelligence

20 June
the
25 June 1975
DEN-263-75
25 June 1975

following your initial inquir
ies for any clue to an
your
It is quite
ument types and performing such things as toler
rivate citizens would have come to our attention
area. We could think of none
vo let the matter drop
COD
a tops
through one
that matc

On 24 June we received a phone call from a local agent of
the who had received the same information
you had passed on
to us and was trying to run it down? We again
any knowledge
such an organization. However, as the matter was rehashed among the
DFO staff wa recalled that a few months ago, shortly after the CIA
expose first appeared in the New York Times, we received in the mail
brochure from The Wackenhut Corporation, 262 Havana, Denver, Colorado.
This organization was described as a private investigative service
with capabilities beyond that of the average private investigator in
that they are staffed with men and women formerly employed by the FBI,
Secret Service and DIA. We also believe that under the list of
services they offered was some type of electronic surveillance. Since
this type of organization is of no interest to us wa discarded the
brochure and forgot about it until your inquiry prompted us to recall

3. We passed the above information on to the local Bureau office
stressing that this was indeed a long shot, that our memory of the
contents of the brochure is vague at best, that we have no reason to
believe that the Wackenhut Corporation is anything other than what ist
advertises itself to be, and that this is our best recollection but even
at that we are not absolutely sure it was the Wackenhut Corporation that
was mentioned in the brochure.

4. With this memorandum we merely wish to go on record with you as
having passed the above information to the local FBI office in the form
stated.

PJWalker/drl
E2 IMPDET CL BY 008582

JAMES M. SOMMERVILLE

SECRET

--- Page 16 ---

14-00000

Jun 23 10 57 AM 76
SECRET 23 14432 JUN 76 STAFF
CITE OCDZIAI 13374
TO: DCD/HEADQUARTERS
ATTN: OPERATIONS SERVICES GROUP/OSS (FRENCH) FROM
15-45-31
SUBJECT: CASE (500-6A DIVISION REQUEST FOR CONTACT OF
WACKENHUT CORPORATION OFFICER
REF. DCD/HEADQUARTERS 15633

I AM OF WORUCH
AT WACKENHUT OFFICES.

RAING
JURCK IN IN JR, AT 2230 ON 24 JUNE 1976-
PLEASE ADVISE IF IT WOUD 37 USEFUL PIÚR
TO THE ESTING TO KNOW SO 15THING OF THE CIRCUMSTANCES UNDER YING
THE FINAL STATEMENT IN PARAGRAPH ONE OF REPERENT.

IMPOET CL
DY 11966.

SECRET

--- Page 17 ---

14-00000

Jun 29 10 22 AM 76
SECRET 291438Z JUN 76 STAFF
CITE DCD/MIAMI 13387
TO: DCD HEADQUARTERS
ATTN: OPERATIONS SERVICES GROUP (FRENCH)
15-45-31
SUBJECT DCD CASE 65.805 - LA DIVISION REQUEST FOR CONTACT
WACKENHUT CORPORATION OFFICER

FYI, BRUCE BERKMANS TELEPHONED ME AT MY HOME LATE ON
28 JUNE 1976 TO TELL ME THAT AFTER CONSULTATIONS WITH
HIS ATTORNEY HE HAS DECIDED NOT TO SUE THE AGENCY.

E2. IMPDET CL BY 011668

SECRET

--- Page 18 ---

14-00000

CITE DCD/DAL 15377
TO: DCD/HEADQUARTERS
ATTN: OSG (FRENCH)
July 24
32176
15-45-31
REF:
CASE 65835
DCD/HEADQUARTERS 13693

I MET BRUCE BERKMANS AT HIS WACKENHUT OFFICE THIS
MORNING AS SCHEDULED. BERKMANS BEGAN THE INTERVIEW BY
REQUESTING THAT I READ A MULTIPAGE LETTER WHICH HE IS THINKING
OF SENDING TO THE INSPECTOR GENERAL. IT IS A DETAILED
STATEMENT OF GRIEVANCES STEMMING FROM HIS FORCED RESIGNATION
AND INDICATES THAT HE IS CONSIDERING A SUIT AGAINST THE AGENCY.
HE HAS IN FACT RETAINED COUNCIL, APPARENTLY ANOTHER FORMER
AGENCY STAFFER, BUT THEY HAVE NOT YET DECIDED WHETHER TO
PROCEED WITH LEGAL ACTION. OTHER ELEMENTS SHOULD PROBABLY BE
THE PROBING NOT WITHSTANDING, BERKMANS WHO
MADE A POINT OF SAYING THAT HE RESIGNED FROM THE AGENCY BUT NOT THE
UNITED STATES, OFFERED TO SERVE AS A FAIRLY TYPICAL DCD
CONTACT WITH RESPECT TO THE INFORMATION DEVELOPED IN HIS
REAR JACKET OUT INQUIRIES. BERKMANS UNDOUBTEDLY HAS MANY
USEFUL CONTACTS ESPECIALLY IN LATIN AMERICA AND SOME IN
THE MIDDLE EAST. UNDER NORMAL CIRCUMSTANCES THIS MIGHT
BE A USEFUL INFORMATIONAL RELATIONSHIP.

3. I TOLD BERKMANS, HOWEVER, THAT IN VIEW OF THE
CIRCUMSTANCES DISCUSSED IN PARAGRAPH 1 ABOVE I FELT IT
IMPROPER PLACE FOR US TO ATTEMPT ANY SYSTEMATIC RELATIONS
AT THIS TIME. SHOULD THE SUIT AND OTHER THINGS FALL IN PLACE, PERHAPS A FUTURE
CONTACT COULD BE ESTABLISHED.

4. IN DESCRIBING HIS DUTIES, BERKMANS DID DROP ONE
PIECE OF INFORMATION WHICH MIGHT BE USEFUL AGAINST THE CURRENT
JAMAICA SITUATION. THROUGH A SUBCONTRACTOR HIS COMPANY IS
CONSIDERING A CONTRACT IN JAMAICA WHICH WOULD PROVIDE
CUSTODIAL SERVICES FOR REVERE BAUXITE HOLDINGS WHICH THE
COMPANY IS APPARENTLY PLANNING TO MOTHBALL.

ER IMPDET CL BY 011668
SECRET

--- Page 19 ---

14-00000

ATTN:
Chief, Domestic Collection Division
Deputy for Field Operations (Starling)
Chief, Miami Field Office

15-45-31
101-225-73
3 December 1973
A-130680

1. In view of the considerable interest expressed from time
to time in any Agency involvement with IF the following information
is submitted for the record. We have learned indirectly but apparently
accurately that Manuel J. Chavez, Jr. in connection with the
Wackenhut Corporation very recently left his position with the
executive concerned with security matters for one to a military due
to a matter.

2. The Miami Field Office has been in contact with
Chavez on occasion to a matter.
local people apparently a routine courtesy are such that on occasion an
unintended social encounter has resulted Chavez.
again no official business will be conducted of day bind.

DIM:paw
CC: OSG (Watts)
E2 IMPDET CL BY 004176
USE WAG

--- Page 20 ---

14-00000

SECRET 2219152 JUN 76 STAFF
“CITE DCD/HEADQUARTERS 15633
PRIORITY
FROM USG/FRENCH
SUBJECT: CASE 65805 - LA DIVISION REQUEST FOR CONTACT OF
WACKENHUT CORPORATION OFFICER.

1. THIS CASE IS RESPONSIVE TO REQUIREMENT CONTROL NUMBER
CFLA 70449 AND OBJECTIVE

LA DIVISION HAS REQUESTED DCD ASSISTANCE IN RECONTACTING BRUCE
BERGHMANS JR DIRECTOR OF INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS OF WACKENHUT
CORPORATION CORAL GABLES, FLA. LA DIVISION HAS PROVIDED THE FOLLOW-
ING ADDRESS AND TELEPHONE NUMBER 3941 MIDWAY ST, MIAMI, TEL.
(305) 443-2260. BERGHMANS IS A FORMER AGENCY NON-OFFICIAL COVER
OFFICER WHO WAS ASKED TO RESIGN FROM THE AGENCY IN 1970.

2. THROUGH AN LA DIVISION OFFICER, TOM CLINES, BERKMANS HAS
REQUEST CONTACT WITH AN AGENCY REPRESENTATIVE AS HE HAS FOR-
MATION MAY BE OF INTEREST TO THE AGENCY. THE NAME OF TOM
CLINES MAY BE USED TO FACILITATE CONTACT WITH BERKMANS AS THEY
BELIEVE THAT BERGHMANS MAY HAVE INFORMATION ON POLITICAL DEVELOP-
MENTS IN JAMAICA.

3. LA DIVISION HAS EMPHASIZED THAT THIS REQUEST IS ONLY IN
RESPONSE TO BERGHMANS REQUEST FOR CONTACT WITH THE AGENCY. LA
DIVISION HAS NO OPERATIONAL INTEREST IN BERGHMANS NOR HIS COMPANY.
OFFICE OF GENERAL COUNSEL HAS CONCURRED FUN CONTACTING BERGHMANS
SYNCA MAINPOST CL BY 00637.

SECRET

--- Page 21 ---

14-00000

SECRET 02 15 152 OCT 73 STAFF
CITE OCDZIAMI
TO: DCD/WASHINGTON
ATTN: DEPUTY CHIEF, DCD (HORTON)
15-45-31
179709
OCT 2 12:15 173
SUBJECT: SEBASTIAN CHARLES VOLPE
REF: HORTON/MAINWARING TELECON OF 2 OCTOBER 1973

1. ON THE AFTERNOON OF 1 OCTOBER 1973 I MET AT HIS REQUEST
WITH MARTY MARTINEZ, FORMER AGENCY STAFFER NOW EMPLOYED BY
THE WACKENHUT CORPORATION. MARTINEZ SAID THAT HE HAD INFORMATION
TO PASS TO US WHICH ACTUALLY ORIGINATED WITH THE DADE COUNTY-
ORGANIZED CRIME BUREAU AND WHICH WAS INITIALLY PASSED TO
WACKENHUT WITH THE UNDERSTANDING THAT WACKENHUT WOULD IN-
TURN CONVEY IT TO THE AGENCY. PARENTHETICALLY, FOR THE RECORD,
WE MAINTAIN SOME SLIGHT CONTACT WITH A FEW WACKENHUT EMPLOYEES,
SEVERAL OF WHOM ARE FORMER AGENCY STAFFERS, BUT WE HAD NOT MET
MARTINEZ PRIOR TO THIS MEETING.

2. ACCORDING TO MARTINEZ, HE HAD BEEN TIPPED BY A CLOSE
CONTACT IN THE ORGANIZED CRIME BUREAU THAT SEBASTIAN CHARLES
VOLPE HAD BEEN APPREHENDED RECENTLY APPARENTLY IN THE COURSE
OF INSTALLING A MIKE OR WIRE. THE CIRCUMSTANCES AND DATE ARE

--- Page 22 ---

14-00000

PAGE 2 OCD/MIAMI 12422 SECRET

NOT KNOWN AT THIS TIME, VOLPE IMMEDIATELY CLAIMED THAT
VAS ON A MISSION FOR THE CIA AND APPARENTLY SUCCESSFULLY AVOIDED
CHARGES
LOCAL FOUR-MAN
PUBLICITY, AT LEAST INITIALLY.
PANEL JUDGES REVIEWED THIS MATTER, HOWEVER, AND AT LEAST
ONE JUDGE HAS INDICATED HE DOES NOT BELIEVE VOLPE'S STORY.

3. WACKENHUT DOES NOT KNOW WHAT THE NEXT STEP WILL BE BUT
APPARENTLY THE ORGANIZED CRIME BUREAU WISHED TO ALERT THE
AGENCY IN ADVANCE TO POTENTIAL ADVERSE PUBLICITY WHICH MAY
ARISE AT ANY TIME. INFERENTIALLY, THE CRIME BUREAU APPEARS
ALSO TO BE CONCERNED THAT VOLPE WAS REALLY INVOLVED FOR THE
AGENCY.

4. VOLPE, BY THE WAY, IN ADDITION TO THE
ALREADY
PROVIDED, IS KNOWN VARIQUELY AS SAN VOLPE, CHESS. VOLED AND
JUST PLAIN CHARLES VOLPE. HE WAS APPARENTLY STARTED SOME SORT
POSSIBLE COMPLICATING
OF SECURITY BUSINESS KNOWN AS ALEX ALERT,
FACTOR IS OUR UNDERSTANDING THAT VOLPE HAS
THE TOP VIRS MAN
FOR LOCAL STATE'S ATTORNEY RICHARD GERSTEIN. GERSTEIN, AMONG
OTHER THINGS, IS KNOWN FOR HIS EFFORTS TO BRING LOCAL CONSPIRACY
CHARGES AGAINST THE WATERGATE GROUP, A PLAY WHICH WE BELIEVE
ARCHIBALD COX SUCCESSFULLY BLOCKED.

--- Page 23 ---

14-00000

PAGE 3 DCD/MIAMI 12422 SECRET

VOLPE, WE BELIEVE HAS ALSO ACTED ON BEHALF OF DADE
COUNTY SHERIFF E. WILSON PURDY, AN EXTREMELY CONTROVERSIAL
LOCAL FIGURE KNOWN ALONG OTHER THINGS FOR EXTENSIVE USE
TELEPHONE

6. THE CIRCUITOUS ROUTE TAKEN BY THE ORGANIZED CRIME BUREAU
TO PASS THIS INFORMATION IS POSSIBLY BEST EXPLAINED BY THE FACT
THAT A SENIOR MEMBER OF THE BUREAU KNOWS THAT MARTINEZ IS A
FORMER AGENCY STAFFER. IN ADDITION, WE ARE TOLD THAT THIS
INDIVIDUAL HAS A DISLIKE OF AND DISTRUST FOR REGULAR
LIAISON CHANNELS AT ANY LEVEL OF GOVERNMENT.

7. AS DISCUSSED WE ARE REPORTING THIS FOR THE RECORD IN
THE BELIEF THAT ANGUS THUERMER AND PERHAPS OTHERS MIGHT WISH
TO BE FOREWARNED. WE PLAY NO FURTHER ACTION UNLESS REQUESTED
BY YOU. E2 IMPDET CL BY 304476

SECRET

--- Page 24 ---

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

Director, Domestic Contact Service
OSS (Watts)
15-45-31
DAL-108-72
1 May 1972

Dallas Field office
Electronic Surveillance

A-154531
while in
al Cables
Lovited Wacke
Washington, at Agency

recently met Manuel J. Chavez of Wackenhut, an old friend,
and he stated that Wackenhut had not heard further from our people
but he would like to advise that the system is now available on
the market. He furnished a brochure concerning the product which
appears

If I recall
3. Would you please forward this to TSD.
correctly one of the TSD representatives who visited Coral Gables
was Paul Reilly.

JFC/jb
Attachment
JUSTIN F. GLEICHAUP

CONFIDENTIAL

--- Page 25 ---

14-00000

CONTACTS/WASHINGTON
ATTN: OSS (MUSULIN)
NOV 73 CITE CONTACTS/
2125
15-45-31
SUBJECT CAGE 55539 - INIATURE TRANSMITTERS
REF:
CONTACTS/WASHINGTON 37573

WE WILL EXPECT RILEY AND ROHERER IN THE MIAMI FIELD OFFICE
ON 1 DEC 70. THEY WILL BE PICKED UP BY ALL CHAVEZ OF THE
WACKENHUT CORPORATION AND TAKIM TO THE DEMONSTRATION.

SECRET

--- Page 26 ---

14-00000

SECRET
15-45-31
932 70
SECRET 841332Z NOV 70 CITE CONTACTS/A 2116
TO: CONTACTS/WASHINGTON
ATTN: OSS (MUSULIN)
SUBJECT: CASE 55539

MANUEL J. CHAVEZ, WACKENHUT CORP, ADVISES THAT NEW LOCAL
FACILITIES FOR TESTING EQUIPMENT REFERRED TO IN MIM-169-73-
SHOULD BE COMPLETED BY ABOUT DO NOV AVO NG SUGA
DE OCINATION REQUEST
TAN: PLAC
NY.
THAT TU
IF THIS IS AGREEABLE TO TSD-SO THAT ARRANGEMONES CAN BE FIRMED UP.
GP-1

--- Page 27 ---

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

Director, Domestic Contact Service
OSS (Musulin)
Chief Miami Field Office
Miniature Transmitters
MIN-160-70 of 21 Sep 70
MIN-178-70
29 October 1970

Electro Finders
Inc., a subsidiary Mackenhut Protection Systems
Coral Gables, Florida.

2. Manuel J. Chavez has advised me that Electro-Finders, Inc.,
operations have been moved from California to Coral Gables and in case
we have any interest in the equipment full particulars can be
obtained through this office.

JPG/c86
JUSTIN F. GLEICHAUP

--- Page 28 ---

14-00000

Miami Field Office
F 15-45.31
29 October 1970

TSD/BDB is interested in the various Electro Finder's
as possible
locating equipment which are the subject of referant, as pos
alternative to TSD's present capabilities in this field of interest.
for a demonstration
1970, at
If it is possible to do so please arrange
subject equipment for D, sometime in mid-November
convenience of representatives of Electro-Finder's Incorporated
ch a demonstration is not possible in Florida,
any cost to TSD/Special Devices Branch,
or in any case, if further
discussion to desired, please advise and we will be glad to pursue
matter further with appropriate TSD components.

We appreciate your cooperation and support in this case.

OSMusulin/ba
eci Services Div. (Control)
JAMES R. MURPHY

--- Page 29 ---

14-00000

SECRET
15-45-31
Director, Domestic Contact Service
OSS (Musulin)
Chief, Miami Field Office
21 September 1970
MIN-100-70
Miniature Transmitters
MIN-145-70
Speed Letter of 3 September, 1970

Sep 70 from George Wackenhut, President Wackenhut
The ection Systems of Coral Gables Elorton invited me to
onstration of a new device his company has developed, which
may be of some interest to us and other Government agencies.
device involves a small transmitter, dimensions about 1/2" x 3/4"
or less then the size of a half pack of cigarettes.

2. The transmitter can be used to track vehicles as well as
persons. If used in a car reception varies from 2 - 3 miles in
6 miles
in Miami. The central station could monitor a fleet of cars and
determine where a given vehicle is
major high-piece ally STCCS such as New York, to-5

3. If the transmitter is carried on a person, as in a heel, it
would only have a range of 3/4 mile, but if carried at the waist
it would have 1. 1/2
2.miles. If used at the line of sight it would
have a range of 8 - 10 miles.

4. Lachitter to painted on 40 flew the end is nu the
afr 1 second of 5. Its clipo eta not be picked by on 1/7 receivers
and the batteries are standard Mercury batteries which last 7 - 10 days.

5. The equipment was recently tested by the Los Angeles Police
Department and a car with the transmitter was located in a 60-foot
deep, three-layer parking garage in Los Angeles.

6. See printed material describing the equipment is appended
as of possible interest to TSD and other selected consumers.

7. FYI: Electrofinders, Inc. is a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Wackenhut.

JUSTIN F. GLEICHAUP

Attachment: Printed Material As Stated

--- Page 30 ---

14-00000

Director, Domestic Contact Service
Services Division
Chief, Miami Field Office
Contact with
13.67-353
14-20-50
WACKENHUT SERVICES INC
13 December 1967
MEM-294-67
B-67

Vice President
27. Dev
Coral Gables, Florida:
[Phone: 445-1481]

th. Amarell, by his position as Vice President, is cognizant
of all contractual services in being with the company in foreign
countries. Even though he does very listed traveling, members of
his staff and Mr. George Wackenhut, President, do a considerable
amount of traveling.

3. Mr. Ammarell will make arrangements for Guerrero to meet with
Wackenhut and other members of the corporation whom he feels
able to assist us.

4. The Wack