14-00000

104-10167-10190

[2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

ACTION REQUIRED!

REFERENCES: A. UFGA 12038, 24 October 1963
B. UFGA 11883, 15 October 1963
C. UFGA 12903, 10 October 1963

OPERATIONAL DEVELOPMENTS

1. Identity was originally contacted by JMPALM Case Officer in mid-1963. The results of Identity's assessment by the JMPALM Case Officer were reported in detail in Reference B. It later developed that Identity was an acquaintance of AMPAL-1 who was subsequently put in contact with Identity for training and subsequent recruitment.

2. Training sessions continued between AMPAL-1 and Identity through most of November and early December 1963. As in other newly recruited JMPALM assets, the agent was regularly critiqued as to the value of his information and was provided with regular guidance in order to better strengthen his value to JMPALM. Following is a list of those persons with whom the subject is in contact on a regular basis or with whom he corresponds frequently:

a. Dominican Air Force Colonel (Pedro RRENCE) who visited Miami from the Dominican Republic. RRENCE plans to return to Miami in early 1964.

b. Antonio ALLANO Font, Cuban newspaperman now living in the Dominican Republic who occasionally visits the Miami area.

c. Retired Dominican Army Colonel [Fernando CARTAGENA] who resides in Miami, but who maintains regular correspondence with many Dominican military figures.

d. Edward DENIS, Haitian exile currently residing in Miami, who corresponds regularly with several Haitian youth leaders who are in opposition to Duvalier and who visit Miami from time to time.

Attachments: u/s/a
Identity

Distribution:
C/HD w/attch US REPERENCE TO
C/GAS w/attch Uscl-
Encl-5

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

MISFILED

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

SECRET

LA-13543

e. George FRANCIS is a regular contact of Identity when the latter is in Miami, and is visited by Identity frequently.

f. Mario GOBA del Caribe and Jean Louis OSSIER, Dominican newspapermen who frequently visit Miami and are old acquaintances of Identity.

g. CAMILLE Lillian, diplomat who now resides in Port-au-Prince. CAMILLE Lillian has known Identity for many years. He is now residing in Haiti and plans to visit Miami in early 1964. (See UTGA-11973).

3. Identity uses several exile front groups as cover for his meetings with his Miami contacts and in strengthening his position as a trusted acquaintance in his communications with the aforementioned sub-sources in the Dominican Republic and Haiti.

4. Identity has presented no problems of a security nature during the period under review and no problems are foreseen at this time. He knows the JMPALM Case Officer only as "Jorge" and meets regularly with AMPAL-1 under secure conditions.

5. Subject has not yet been granted a JMPALM cryptonym as was requested in reference C which transmitted Identity's PRQ Part II to Headquarters. ADOLPH SABOUN, nephew of George Francis, is Haitian Consul in Miami, Florida.

6. During the months of November and December, Identity is credited with having provided JMPALM with the following intelligence reports:

UFG 4045 "Visit to the Dominican Republic by Unidentified Representative of Venezuelan President Romulo Betancourt."

UFG 4046 "Political Activities Against the Civilian Junta in the Dominican Republic"

UFG 4169 "Permission for the Movimiento Democrata Cristiano (MDC) to Establish a Cuban Exile Base in Venezuela" and "Involvement of Former Cuban President Carlos Prio Socarras with the MDC."

UTG 4187 "Plans of the Dominican Triumvirate to Appoint General Elias Wessin y Wessin to the Post of Minister of War."

UFO 4288 "Alleged Plans for a Military Coup d'état in Venezuela."

UFO 4289 "Plans of Dominican Military Leaders to Sabotage the San Isidro Air Base."

"Attempts of the 14th of June Movement to Deter Recognition of the Dominican Triumvirate by the U.S."

"Cuban Exile Plans to set up anti-Communist Radio and Television Programs in the Dominican Republic."

November 1963 Salary $176.00
December 1963 Salary 100.00
Christmas Bonus 88.00
Total $364.00

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

SECRET

UTGA-23563

8. Identity will continue to be run by AMPAL-1 until 1 March 1964 when his production will be further evaluated and he will be turned over to ALCS for handling on a permanent basis. It will be noted that ACROBAT-1 who was recruited for a job as JMPALM principal agent to handle several recently acquired assets, is now undergoing training by AMPAL-1 in an effort to better groom this agent for the principal agent job.

END OF DISPATCH

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000

SECRET

Separate Cover Attachment to GG 13543

IDENTITY: Pedro VALDIVIA, cit Dominican Republic

Miami, FLORIDA Re: contact of suby in Miami, FLORIDA

"End" to UFGA 13545
