14-00000
104-10169-10017.

[2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

Chief, Task Force,
Chief of Station, WAVE
Operational/GYROSE
FAL/Vertica Tres

05
2 April 1962

1. On 31 March 1962 Alberto Mariano Parojon Cardonas, A 12895479, born 11 December 1933, a bank employee, Mical address: (1901 211 16th Ave.) no telephone, was interviewed.

2. Source said he was a member of EAC, FAL and Vortice Tres ("The Third Position").

3. Source said that SAC (Salvar a Cuba) was destroyed by Cuban security forces.

4. Source said that FAL (Fuerza Anti-Comunista de Liberacion) is well organized, the best organized being the forces in Pinar del Rio Province. He said that FAL has some arms and ammunition, and is an action type group, conspiring to provoke an uprising and cutting off communications. Source was reluctant to name any FAL contact, but finally named [Rona Parejon Perez] as a contact man. He said that he could arrange bona fides with Parojon, and he was told that perhaps in the future someone would call upon him and introduce themselves as "chicos de Ecberto" and discuss this in further detail. He agreed. He said that some months ago the FAL sent out microfilmed maps showing sites for landing arms, and also its proposed caching sites, but he did not know to whom this information was passed.

5. Source said that he was also associated with Vortice Tres, and described this organization as being composed of intellectuals and professionals. Its mission is not clear because as he described it one of the functions is to explain the horrors of the Communist system to the masses by the adoption of a third position. Vortice is also interested in more subtle approaches, such as industrial slowdowns and sabotage. The emphasis, however, appears to be on propaganda and he said Vortice is on the point of obtaining a radio plant. He was asked if this was a "pirate radio", but he replied no, that it would remain on the air so that it could be heard. When asked about the Dring problems, he said he was told by an engineer who is working on this project that it was a "Delta System Radio" and they would not have to be afraid of [Wing]. (This does not make sense, but it was all the source knew on this subject.)

6. Source said that Vortice needs supplies, such as Minox cameras, but he would not or could not give the name of a Vortice contact in Habana. He said there is a Vertice contact in Miami, Cerardo [Inu] and although he did not know the last name or address of Cercreo, he was going to try and locate him. He was again reminded of the "chicos" who would call on him for this information.

7. Source said that before he left Cuba he met with Eccio Carrillo, the niece of Justo Carrillo, he told him that Justo sent in a message saying "Be careful with Flavio." [Eccio] asked the source to get in touch with [Justo] and tell him that if he had derogatory information on Flavio he should send the details. If he thought [Justo's] answer was confusing. Source said that "Flavio" is the var name for Evelio Duque who also uses "Frank" and "Ianolito." Source said that it is believed that the name Evelio Duque is in itself a var name.

8. Source identified Arturo Golri, an employee of the National Bank, Agonoia 1-10-10 Linea y O Vedado, Habana, as a self-admitted member of G-2. Arturo is about 32 years old, white, stocky (about 150 pounds), 5'8" tall, white, black hair and has a large mustache. He was formerly the handyman at the bank, but because of his G-2 position he is now a man of prestige and catered to by all.

Folson L. RAMROCK
4182
