```markdown
14-00000
104-10220-10128

[2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director of Security
(Investigations and Support)

SUBJECT:

ATTACHMENTS (IF ANY):

DATE:

CHIEF, CI/OA

FORM 2413

2-65

2913

SECRET

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE
PART I - BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION

INSTRUCTIONS: 1. Write clearly.
2. Answer all questions. If question is not applicable, write "NA".
3. Attach blank pages, if additional space is needed.

SECTION 1 - GENERAL PERSONAL AND PHYSICAL DATA

1. NAME (First) (Middle) (Last)
2. NAME IN NATIVE LANGUAGE OR SCRIPT
3. NAME AT BIRTH (If different than Item 1.)
4. ALIASES, NICKNAMES, TELECODES, LEGAL CHANGE IN NAME (State time, reason for and place of use)
(a) Bambi (nickname)
5. DATE OF BIRTH
6. PLACE OF BIRTH
7. PERSONAL HABITS (Liquor, drugs, gambling, paramours)
8. COURT RECORD (Court, date, arrests, charges, punishments, sentences, acquittals)
No record
9. DESCRIPTION (Use American standards of measurements, if possible)
a. SEX
b. AGE
c. APPARENT AGE
d. HEIGHT
e. WEIGHT
f. COMPLEXION
g. BUILD
h. COLOR OF HAIR
i. COLOR OF EYES
j. TEETH
k. FACE (Shape)
l. POSTURE
10. MARITAL STATUS
11. HEIGHT
12. COMPLEXION
13. BUILD
14. POSTURE
m. SCARS AND MARKS OR OTHER DISTINGUISHING FEATURES
Scar, right-hand palm
n. GENERAL APPEARANCE
Normal
o. PROMINENT FEATURES
None
p. OTHER IDENTIFYING FEATURES

ATTACH SAMPLES OF SIGNATURE AND HANDWRITING ALSO DATED PHOTOGRAPH AND FINGERPRINTS.

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

SECTION II

10. PRESENT CITIZENSHIP
Cuban
11. NATIONALITY AT BIRTH AND ALL SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS (If different than Item 10.)
Cuban
12. PRESENT RESIDENCE (Indicate as owner, tenant or sub-tenant)
World Trade Center
13. PERMANENT ADDRESS (If different than Item 12.)
14. IF U.S. NATURALIZED CITIZEN, GIVE NAME, DATE, CITY AND NUMBER OF CERTIFICATE GRANTED
15. TRAVEL OUTSIDE COUNTRY OF PRESENT RESIDENCE (Countries, dates and purposes)
See attachment

SECTION III - OCCUPATIONAL AND FINANCIAL DATA

16. PRESENT OCCUPATION Ministry of Internal Relations
17. TITLE
18. SALARY (Per annum) Bs 1800 mo.
19. FINANCIAL STATUS (Earnings, bank deposits, securities and property)
None

SECTION IV - ORGANIZATIONAL AFFILIATIONS

20. MEMBERSHIP IN RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATIONS
None
21. PRESENT AND PAST MEMBERSHIP IN PROFESSIONAL AND SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS, POLITICAL AFFILIATIONS
Political - Frente Revolucionario Jose A. Echevarria - 1960 in Cuba
Political - J.U.R.E. - 1963-1964
Political - Rece - 1967

SECTION V - EDUCATIONAL DATA

22. SCHOOLS

NAME AND LOCATION OF SCHOOL NAME OF COURSE DATES ATTENDED DEGREE
FROM TO RECEIVED

Elementary Cienfuegos, Cuba 1936 1942 Yes
S. High School Cienfuegos, Cuba 1942 1947 Yes
Padres Dominicos Cienfuegos, Cuba Bachelor 1942 1947 No
Havana University Sugar Chemist 1947 1950 No
Havana University Medicine 1950 1953 No

23. LANGUAGES AND DIALECTS

(List below each language in which you possess any degree of competence.) LANGUAGES COMPETENCE

READ WRITE UNDERSTAND SPEAK

YES NO YES NO YES NO YES NO

Spanish X X X X

English

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000

ATTACHMENT
PRQ PART I
HVCA-10757

DATE PLACE PURPOSE

1956 Miami, Florida Tourist

1961 Mexico Political exile

Feb 1961 Miami, Florida Political exile

April 1961 Guatemala Invasion (Cuba)

May 1961 Miami, Florida Invasion (Cuba)

1964 Dominican Republic Cuban Affairs

1964 Puerto Rico Cuban Affairs

1964 Dominican Republic Cuban Affairs

1964 Miami, Florida Work

Oct 1967 Venezuela Work

Oct 1967 Miami, Florida Tourist

Oct 1967 Venezuela Tourist

1968 Miami, Florida Reentry Permit

1969 Trinidad, Tobago Revolution-business

Mar 1970 Bogota Business

1970 Bogota Business

Jun 1970 Aruba Business

May 1971 Lima, Peru Business

April 1971 Argentina Business

April 1971 Brasil Business

Oct 1971 Portugal Business

Oct 1971 Pore Business

Nov 1971 Vienna Business

Dec 1971 Rome Business

Dec 1971 Miami, Florida Tourist

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000

SECTION VI - SPECIAL QUALIFICATIONS AND INTERESTS

24. INDICATE ANY WRITING GIVE DETAILS INCLUDING TITLES OF BOOKS OR ARTICLES, ALSO NAMES OF PUBLISHERS AND PUBLICA-
TION DATES.
None

25. SPECIAL SKILLS, ABILITIES, HOBBIES SUCH AS RADIO, PHOTOGRAPHY, ETC.
Good marksman with all arms

SECTION VII - MILITARY SERVICE

26. MILITARY SERVICE

COUNTRY UNIT RANK DUTY DATES

USA 1963 1964 2nd Lt.

1st Batallion

Fort Benning, GA

IDENTIFYING COUNTRY, INDICATE WHERE SERVICE PERFORMED, DECORATIONS, WHEN AND WHY DISCHARGED, GIVE DETAILS IF
PRISONER.
None

SECTION VIII - EMPLOYMENT HISTORY

NOTE INDICATE CHRONOLOGICAL HISTORY OF EMPLOYMENT LISTING LAST POSITION FIRST. INCLUDE ANY GOVERNMENT EMPLOYMENT.

a. INCLUSIVE DATES (From - To) b. EMPLOYER c. ADDRESS d. TYPE OF WORK e. SALARY OR EARNINGS f. REASON FOR LEAVING

1963-1964 U.S. Army Fort Benning, GA 2nd Lt. $ 400 month Cuban affairs

1960-1962 Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. Havana, Cuba Supervisor $ 1500 month Transfer

1956-1958 Self (Fumigadora) Cruces, Las Villas, Cuba Fumigation $ 250 month Self Employment

1946-1954 Pastora Sugar Mill San Jose de las Lajos Chemist $ 210 /month Sugar Mill Business

1944-1945 Sugar Mill Busting Las Villas, Cuba Chemist Studying

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000

SECTION IX - MARITAL STATUS

31. CHECK ONE: SINGLE MARRIED SEPARATED DIVORCED WIDOWED

32. STATE DATE, PLACE AND REASON FOR ALL SEPARATIONS, DIVORCES OR ANNULMENTS
None

SECTION X - FAMILY

WIFE OR IF YOU HAVE BEEN MARRIED MORE THAN ONCE, INCLUDING ANNULMENTS, USE SHEET FOR FORMER WIFE OR HUSBAND
HUSBAND GIVING DATA REQUIRED BELOW FOR ALL PREVIOUS MARRIAGES.

33. NAME OF SPOUSE (First) (Middle) (Last)
Nieves Elina Rosales

34. DATE OF MARRIAGE 13 Aug 1963 35. PLACE OF MARRIAGE Columbus, Ga. - Muscogee County

36. DATE OF BIRTH 26 Dec 1935 37. PLACE OF BIRTH Cienfuegos, Cuba

38. NATIONALITY AT BIRTH 39. SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS 40. PRESENT RESIDENCE (List address, if not presently residing with you)
Cuban

SECTION X

41. FULL NAME
Jose Luis Posada
45. SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS

SECTION XII - MOTHER

48. FULL NAME
Dolores Carriles
52. SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS
CHILDREN

42. YEAR OF BIRTH 43. PLACE OF BIRTH 44. NATIONALITY AT BIRTH
1955 Miami, Florida American

*SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS HELD BY ANY CHILD (Identify child and give his, or her, present address)
None

SECTION XI - FATHER

41. FULL NAME 42. YEAR OF BIRTH 43. PLACE OF BIRTH 44. NATIONALITY AT BIRTH
Luis Posada Unknown Cienfuegos, Cuba Cuban
46. OCCUPATION 47. PRESENT RESIDENCE
Book Store Unknown

49. YEAR OF BIRTH 50. PLACE OF BIRTH 51. NATIONALITY AT BIRTH
Dolores Capriles Unknown Cienfuegos, Cuba Cuban
52. OCCUPATION 53. PRESENT RESIDENCE
Housekeeper Same as for father

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000

SECTION XIII - BROTHERS AND SISTERS

FULL NAME YEAR PLACE OF NATIONALITY AT BIRTH *SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS HELD BY ANY BROTHER OR SISTER (Identify brother, or sister and give his, or her, present
OF BIRTH BIRTH address)

Maria Concepcion Posada Cienfuegos, Cuba Cuban None

SECTION XIV - RELATIVES, ACQUAINTANCES AND CONTACTS

55. NAMES OF RELATIVES IN ANY GOVERNMENT SERVICE INDICATE NAME OF GOVERNMENTS AND POSITIONS HELD.
(See previous pg. 1)

56. RELATIVES, FRIENDS, CORRESPONDENTS IN U.S. (Explain relationship)
Augusto Val Des Miranda (friend)

57. NATURALIZATION OF CLOSE RELATIVES IN U.S. (Give name, date, city and number of certificate granted)
I have aunts (2) and cousins (2) who are American citizens.
I do not know anything of certificates.

58. NAMES, ALIASES, TELECODES AND RELATIONSHIP OF ALL PERSONS KNOWN TO BE CONNECTED IN ANY WAY WITH ANY INTELLIGENCE
SERVICE.
None

SECTION XV - PERSONAL ASSOCIATIONS

59. LIST CLOSE ASSOCIATES, INDIVIDUALS OR GROUPS

SECTION XVI - MISCELLANEOUS

DATE SIGNATURE
23 May 1968 Luis Posada

61. CONNECTED IN ANY WAY WITH ANY INTELLIGENCE
SERVICE.

--- Page 8 ---

14-00000

--SECRET--

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE
PART II - OPERATIONAL INFORMATION

INSTRUCTIONS TO CASE OFFICER DISPATCH NO.
2. Normally, headquarters will be unable to an approval unless requester furnishes answers to all questions
1. This form must be filled in by the case officer of appropriate authority on the basis of the best available in-
formation, do not to be shown to the subject.
in PRQ parts I and II. However, in an emergency provisional approval may be obtained by complying with the ap-
plicable provisions of PR 10-13, paragraphs 6b, 8, 12b and 12d. Thereafter the usual method to document or com-
plete the case must be followed as set forth in FR 10-215.
3. Three (3) completed copies of PRQ part I (including copy in subject's handwriting, if possible) and two (2) com-
pleted copies of this form must be sent to headquarters as soon as possible.
4. Data acquired later must be sent to headquarters in PRQ format in two (2) copies.
5. Fill in all items, if information obtainable. If item not applicable write "NA". If additional space required
for item, use reverse side of page keyed to appropriate item number.

1. CRYPTONYM
2. PSEUDONYM
SECTION I - CONTACT AND DEVELOPMENT

1. INDICATE WHOM, WHEN, WHERE, WHY, AND BY WHOM SUBJECT WAS FIRST CONTACTED OR DEVELOPED.
The PT, UTUA-03187, dated 20 September this

2. INDICATE WHETHER SUBJECT COULD BE TURNED OVER QUICKLY AND IN A SECURE MANNER TO ANY RESPONSIBLE CASE OFFICER FOR
HANDLING, IF SO, INDICATE TO WHOM.
Subject could be turned over to any responsible case officer

3. LIST OTHER CASE OFFICERS WHO HAVE HANDLED SUBJECT OR WHOM HE KNOWS OR HAS KNOWN, GIVE NAMES BY WHICH THEY HAVE
BEEN KNOWN.
None

FORM 11-48 1050 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS (4-209)
SECRET

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000

SECRET

SECTION II - MOTIVATION AND CONTROL

1. ESTIMATE SUBJECT'S MOTIVATION. (Be detailed, if possible cite evidence. Do not lock comment such as "anti-
communist.")
Subject's motivation is a strong anti-communist interest

2. INDICATE WHAT CONTROL, IF ANY, EXISTS OVER THE SUBJECT. (If no control, or if there is a lack of real control
explain.)
Subject's present realities and physical presence in Venezuela would be
untenable if his cooperation with the Venezuelan never to be known to the Venezuelan

SECTION III - COVER

1. COVER USED BY SUBJECT AND CASE OFFICER IN THEIR MEETINGS.
Effective clandestining. Plausible denial is based on contact with O in
his official cover capacity.

2. COVER USED BY SUBJECT IN OBTAINING HIS INFORMATION AND IN CONTACTING HIS INFORMANTS.
Subject accomplishes this in the course of his actual employment.

3. INDICATE SERVICE FOR WHICH SUBJECT THINKS HE (Will work) (is working).

SECTION IV - INTELLIGENCE CONNECTIONS AND TRAINING

1. EXPLAIN SUBJECT'S KNOWN PAST OR PRESENT CONNECTION WITH ANY OTHER INTELLIGENCE SERVICE, INDICATE THE EXTENT
SUCH CONNECTION IS KNOWN OVERTLY.
Previous JMWAVE. In addition, Subject has been employed in
, and CI

2. LIST OTHER INDIVIDUALS (Agents, relatives, friends) WHO KNOW OF SUBJECT'S PRESENT INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.
CI/OA; MOIV-H. (-1)

3. EXPLAIN ANY TRAINING SUBJECT HAS HAD IN CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS.
Subject had to test to final training since being in Venezuela (1970).
This was before period when Subject worked for Station O.

SECTION V - COLLABORATION POTENTIAL

1. INDICATE OTHER FOREIGN POWER SUBJECT WOULD BE MOST LIKELY TO COLLABORATE WITH BECAUSE OF HIS IDEOLOGY OR PAST
ASSOCIATIONS. EXPLAIN.
None. Subject is not likely to collaborate

SECRET

--- Page 10 ---

14-00000

_ SECRET

SECTION VI - OPERATIONAL USE - CONTACT

1. IF SUBJECT HAS BEEN USED ON CONTACTED BEFORE, INDICATE ACTIVITY IN WHICH HE HAS ENGAGED AND
THE TYPE OF INFORMATION HE HAS FURNISHED.
Subject obtains information in the course of his normal official duties

2. INDICATE HOW AND FROM WHOM SUBJECT OBTAINS INFORMATION.
Subject obtains information in the course of his normal official duties

3. INDICATE WHAT HAS BEEN TOLD SUBJECT AS TO THE DISPOSITION OF INFORMATION HE FURNISHES.
Subject knows from experience that information is inated throughout Hqs

4. DETAIL SUBJECT'S PROPOSED FI OR CI TYPE USE OR DUTIES.
Subject is a unilateral penetration (UI) of

5. DETAIL SUBJECT'S PROPOSED PP-PM TYPE USE OR DUTIES.

SECTION VII - PROPOSED LIAISON OR OPERATIONAL ACTIVITY

1. DETAIL SUBJECT'S PROPOSED LIAISON TYPE CONTACT OR OPERATIONAL USE.
A. WHERE SUBJECT IS AN OFFICIAL MEMBER OF A FOREIGN GOVERNMENT:
Subject is an official of DISIP and is involved in

B. WHERE SUBJECT IS AN OFFICIAL OF ANOTHER AGENCY OF THIS GOVERNMENT:

SECTION VIII - AGENCY RELATIONSHIP WITH SUBJECT

1. EXPLAIN NATURE' OF AGENCY RELATIONSHIP WITH SUBJECT: I.E. TRAINEE, OPPOSITE NUMBER, REMUNERATION, IF ANY AGENCY
PERSONNEL KNOWN TO SUBJECT.

SECRET

--- Page 11 ---

14-00000

SECRET

SECTION IX - QUALIFICATIONS FOR OTHER OPERATIONS

1. INDICATE SPECIAL ABILITIES, TALENTS, OR QUALIFICATIONS POSSESSED BY SUBJECT WHICH COULD CONCEIVABLY BE OF VALUE
FOR OTHER OPERATIONS.

SECTION X - COMMITMENTS

1. IF IT IS PROPOSED TO PAY SUBJECT A REGULAR SALARY, INDICATE THE WEEKLY AMOUNT. IF PAYMENT TO BE MADE IN EXCHANGE
COMMODITIES, SUBSIDY OR OTHER METHOD, SPECIFY AND GIVE DETAILS.
Subject is paid a regular monthly salary of approximately R$ 335.

2. EXPLAIN ANY PROMISES, OTHERWISE NOT COVERED HEREIN, MADE TO SUBJECT. (Example: Commitments regarding evacuation
of subject and family.)
None; Subject has been assisted in retaining his permanent resident status.

SECTION XI - INTELLIGENCE AND SECURITY

1. INDICATE THE FIELD AGENCIES AND FIELD FILES WITH WHICH SUBJECT'S NAME HAS BEEN CHECKED AND THE RESULTS.
Lo (10. berogatory infoclved.

2. INDICATE OTHER INVESTIGATIVE MEASURES TAKEN TO VERIFY BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION FURNISHED BY SUBJECT.
Polygraph 29 November 1971. + No. 72701 20 "nvestier 1971.

3. INDICATE WHETHER OR NOT PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL OR OPERATIONAL AP- PROVAL FOR SUBJECT'S USE HAS BEEN PREVIOUSLY OBTAINED.
DATE APPROVAL OBTAINED PO 17 Jan 1971

5. EVALUATE SUBJECT'S CHARACTER, RELIABILITY AND SECURITY, CITING EVIDENCE WHERE POSSIBLE.
Subject appears to be reliable and security

6. EXPLAIN ANY SITUATION OR INDISCRETION TH WHICH SUBJECT MAY HAVE BEEN INVOLVED WHICH MUST BE EVALUATED FROM A
CL/OPERATIONAL SECURITY VIEWPOINT.

SECTION XII - SUBJECT'S PERSONAL HABITS

1. USE OF LIQUOR, DRUGS: GAMBLING, PARAMOURS.
Moderate

SECRET

--- Page 12 ---

14-00000

SECTION XIII - AVOCATIONAL INTERESTS

SECRET

INDICATE SUBJECT'S HOBBIES OR INTEREST IN SPORTS, MUSIC, ETC.

SECTION XIV - GENERAL

1. INDICATE WHETHER SUBJECT'S LANGUAGE ABILITIES AND OTHER CHARACTERISTICS, ARE SUCH AS HE COULD PASS AS A NATIVE
OF A COUNTRY OR REGION OTHER THAN HIS OWN. EXPLAIN.
Subject is increasingly able to disguise his PERU accent and pass as
a Venezuelan.
Among other items, the accent, would be detected in prolonged contact.

2. INDICATE WHETHER INFORMATION IN PRQ PARTS I AND II HAS OBTAINED BY RESEARCH, CLANDESTINE ASSESSMENT, FILES,
CORRESPONDENCE OR OTHER MEANS.
PRQ-I obtained from Subject. FRQ-II from files and personal observation.

3. IF OTHER THAN ROUTINE ACTION IS REQUIRED, IF AND WHEN TERMINATION OF SUBJECT IS EFFECTED. PLEASE EXPLAIN. (Also
see para. 436, supra)
None

SECTION XV - EMERGENCY CONDITIONS RECONTACT ARRANGEMENTS

GIVE FULL DETAILS I.E. RECOGNITION SIGNALS WHERE COULD CONTACT BE MADE WHAT BONA FIDES COULD INDIVIDUAL
MAKING CONTACT USE?
Subject could be contacted by any of fer case officers, or in name used
by former CO's.

SECTION XVI - MISCELLANEOUS OPERATIONAL DATA AND REMARKS

DATE SIGNATURE OF APPROPRIATE SENIOR OFFICER
1420

SECRET

--- Page 13 ---

14-00000

SECRET

PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
NUMBER

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief,

SUBJECT

REFERENCE: Your Memorandum, Dated

A Provisional Operational Approval is granted for the use of this Subject
as set forth below.

A Provisional Operational Approval issued by CI Staff grants the same
authority, on a temporary basis, for the use of an individual as the authority
granted in an Operational Approval unless otherwise specified by CI/OA. It is
based, however, only on preliminary file checks and investigation and is sub-
ject to a further final review when all investigation is completed.

Penetration of the Directorate of Intelligence and Prevention (DISIP)

To process the Operational Approval, full information (completed PRQ
Parts I and II) must be submitted as soon as possible and not later than six
(6) months from this date. An Operational Approval will follow when all
investigation is completed and upon the receipt of satisfactory PRQ Parts I
and II. Cancellation must be requested if use of Subject by interested Di-
visions ceases.

APPROVAL

CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

FORM 125 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS
10-69

SECRET

DATE

--- Page 14 ---

14-00000

Return to Mr.
Sale 20/01/72

SECRET

FILE NO. 300985

NOTICE TO: DIVISION PERSONNEL REVIEWING THIS FILE

Please complete the following steps:

1. NAME OF REVIEWER (please print) NANCY L. Davis

2. OFFICE DESIGNATION OF REVIEWER: WH/3/V

3. DATE OF REVIEW 14 Jan 72

4. Do you contemplate dissemination of information reviewed:

[X] to field

[ ] to another US Government Agency (if so, to whom)

The dissemination of any Office of Security investigative information,
including FBI reports, must be coordinated with CI/OA and the Office
of Security.

5. Comments: Re WH/3/V memo 28 Dec 71, 6/4
should have been considered for an OA years ago,
suggests he now be processed for an OA not
POA and Desk can supply updated PROS/II
at later date when routinely procured
from Station.

DO NOT REMOVE THE ATTACHED FOLDER FROM CI/OA

FORM 3230 GROUP 1
5-70 (13-21-40) SECRET

--- Page 15 ---

14-00000

SECRET

28 December 1971

MEMORANDUM FOR: CI/OA

SUBJECT: CIFENCE/4 (201-300985)

1. It is requested that a POA be granted for Subject's
use as a penetration of the Directorate for Intelligence
and Prevention (DISIP), a Venezuelan Security Service.
Since Subject holds a key position in this organization,
he will be able to monitor its intelligence operations as
well as Venezuelan political matters.

2. All current traces on Subject are non-derogatory.
(See attachment to Form 772 for additional information).

3. Request for Approval, COMINT Name Check and PRQ
Part I (dated 28 May 68) are attached. Updated PRQ Part I
and Part II will be requested from Station.

Attachments:
As Stated Above

L. Davis
WH/3/V

SECRET

--- Page 16 ---

14-00000

SECRET

REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OR INVESTIGATIVE ACTION
(Always handcarry 1 copy of this form)
PLEASE COMPLETE EACH SECTION AND APPROPRIATE BLANK

CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

TO: CHIEF, INVESTIGATION AND SUPPORT DIVISION, OFFICE OF SECURITY
CHIEF, PERSONNEL SECURITY DIVISION, OFFICE OF SECURITY

DATE 22 December 1971
FROM: WH/3/V
PROJECT

SUBJECT: (true name) Luis Clemente POSADA Carriles

CRYPTONYM, PSEUDONYM, AKA, OR ALIASES CI/OA FILE NO.
CIFENCE 4 201-300985

SO FILE NO.

1. TYPE ACTION REQUESTED

[X] PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL [ ] PROVISIONAL PROPRIETARY APPROVAL
[ ] OPERATIONAL APPROVAL [ ] PROPRIETARY APPROVAL
[ ] PROVISIONAL COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL [ ] COVERT NAME CHECK
[ ] COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL [ ] SPECIAL INQUIRY (SPECIFY)
[ ] CONTRACT TYPE A [ ] CONTRACT TYPE B
SECURITY AND RELIABILITY DETERMINATION

2. SPECIFIC AREA OF USE- Venezuela

3. FULL DETAILS OF USE penetration DISIP, a Venezuelan Security Service. Will also
report on Venezuelan political matters.

4. INVESTIGATION AND COVER

A. U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATION? YES NO [X]
B. CIA INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATION? YES NO [X]
C. IS SUBJECT AWARE OF U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST IN HIM? YES NO [X]
D. IS SUBJECT AWARE OF CIA INTEREST IN HIM? YES NO [X]

E. INDICATE ANY LIMITATIONS ON COVERAGE IN THE INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.

F. SUGGEST "COVER PRETEXT" TO BE USED IN CONDUCTING PERSONAL INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.

G. DO YOU PLAN TO MAKE SUBJECT WITTING OF AGENCY OR GOVERNMENT INTEREST? YES NO [X]

IF NO INVESTIGATION OUTSIDE OF CIA, EXPLAIN FULLY

5. PRO AND GREEN LIST STATUS

[ ] PRO ' OR 819 DATA IN (2) COPIES ATTACHED [ ] WILL BE FORWARDED
[ ] PRO ' OR EQUIVALENT WILL BE FORWARDED PRIOR TO EXPIRATION OF POA. [ ] COPY ATTACHED
[ ] GREEN LIST ATTACHED. NO RECORD

6. M. I. TRACES-INCLUDING COMINT se attached
[ ] WILL FORWARD [ ] NON DEROGATORY [ ] DEROGATORY/SIGNIFICANT ATTACHED

7. DIVISION TRACES INCLUDING COMINT
[ ] WILL FORWARD [ ] NON DEROGATORY [ ] DEROGATORY/SIGNIFICANT ATTACHED

8. FIELD TRACES ** NO RECORD
[ ] WILL FORWARD [ ] NON-DEROGATORY [ ] DEROGATORY/SIGNIFICANT ATTACHED

9. CRS/ISG ** NO RECORD
[ ] WILL FORWARD [ ] NON-DEROGATORY [ ] DEROGATORY/SIGNIFICANT ATTACHED

10. FI/D ** NO RECORD
[ ] WILL FORWARD [ ] NON-DEROGATORY [ ] DEROGATORY/SIGNIFICANT ATTACHED
*LIST AREAS CHECKED IF NOT CHECKED OTHER (EXPLAIN)
**LIST AREAS CHECKED NOT APPLICABLE

SIGNATURE OF CASE OFFICER EXTENSION SIGNATURE OF BRANCH CHIEF
FORM 772 Iserstead 7271
3-71 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS SECRET

--- Page 17 ---

14-00000

SECRET

COMMENTS RE DEROGATORY TRACES
ATTACHMENT TO FORM 772

1. A POA was requested on Subject in January 1968 for his
use as a penetration of Venezuelan General Directorate of
Police. Cancellation was requested in February 1968 because
of indications that Subject was involved in "clandestine sabotage
activity and suspicions that Subject failed to report his activi-
ties to CIA. Thereafter, Subject was treated as a "hostile".
In the ensuing months Subject was described as "an extremely
valuable penetration" because of his important and accurate
intelligence information and operational reports. Subject was
given a polygraph examination to clear up questions about pos-
sible affiliation with Cuban intelligence, unreported associa-
tion with gangster elements, etc. His responses showed no
information which would prevent CIA using him for ops purposes.
Request for POA was again requested on 7 September 1968. This
POA request was turned down on 15 October due to Subject being
an "agent of a foreign power."

2. Since that time Subject has continued to provide verbal
and written information reports concerning Communist and subver-
sive elements, guerrilla activities, Soviet activities, sabotage,
etc. Subject continues to report accurately and often and has
a very pro-U.S. attitude. Subject was again polygraphed on
29 November 1971 (a copy of which is contained in Subject's
CI/OA folder). His responses indicated no deception concern-
ing truthfulness of reporting to CIA, no compromise of his
U.S. Government connections, non-involvement in illegal arms
dealings, etc.

SECRET

--- Page 18 ---

14-00000

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE
PART I - BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION

INSTRUCTIONS: 1. Write clearly.
2. Answer all questions. If question is not applicable, write "NA".
3. Attach blank pages, if additional space is needed.

SECTION 1 - GENERAL PERSONAL AND PHYSICAL DATA

1. NAME (First) (Middle) (Last)
Luis Clemente Posada Carriles

2. NAME IN NATIVE LANGUAGE OR SCRIPT
Same

3. NAME AT BIRTH (If different than Item 1.)
Same

4. ALIASES, NICKNAMES, TELECODES, LEGAL CHANGE IN NAME (State time, reason for and place of use)
Bambi (nickname)

5. DATE OF BIRTH 15 February 1928 6. PLACE OF BIRTH Cienfuegos, Cuba

7. PERSONAL HABITS (Liquor, drugs, gambling, paramours)
8. COURT RECORD (Court, date, arrests, charges, punishments, sentences, acquittals)
No record

9. DESCRIPTION (Use American standards of measurements, if possible)
a. SEX M b. AGE c. APPARENT AGE 40
d. HEIGHT e. WEIGHT f. COMPLEXION
g. BUILD Strong h. COLOR OF HAIR Black i. COLOR OF EYES Green
j. TEETH Normal k. FACE (Shape) Normal l. POSTURE Strong

m. SCARS AND MARKS OR OTHER DISTINGUISHING FEATURES
Scar, right-hand palm
n. GENERAL APPEARANCE Normal
o. PROMINENT FEATURES None
p. OTHER IDENTIFYING FEATURES

ATTACH SAMPLES OF SIGNATURE AND HANDWRITING ALSO DATED PHOTOGRAPH AND FINGERPRINTS.

--- Page 19 ---

14-00000

SECTION II

10. PRESENT CITIZENSHIP Cuban 11. NATIONALITY AT BIRTH AND ALL SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS (If different than Item 10.)
Cuban

12. PRESENT RESIDENCE (Indicate as owner, tenant or sub-tenant) World Trade Center
13. PERMANENT ADDRESS (If different than Item 12.)

14. IF U.S. NATURALIZED CITIZEN, GIVE NAME, DATE, CITY AND NUMBER OF CERTIFICATE GRANTED

15. TRAVEL OUTSIDE COUNTRY OF PRESENT RESIDENCE (Countries, dates and purposes)
1964 - Dominican Republic - working for J.U.R.E organization (exiles affairs)

SECTION III - OCCUPATIONAL AND FINANCIAL DATA

16. PRESENT OCCUPATION Ministry of Internal Relations 17. TITLE
18. SALARY (Per annum) Bs 1800 mo.
19. FINANCIAL STATUS (Earnings, bank deposits, securities and property)
None

SECTION IV - ORGANIZATIONAL AFFILIATIONS

20. MEMBERSHIP IN RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATIONS
None
21. PRESENT AND PAST MEMBERSHIP IN PROFESSIONAL AND SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS, POLITICAL AFFILIATIONS
Political - Frente Revolucionario Jose A. Echevarria - 1960 in Cuba
Political - J.U.R.E. - 1963-1964
Political - Rece - 1967

SECTION V - EDUCATIONAL DATA

22. SCHOOLS

NAME AND LOCATION OF SCHOOL NAME OF COURSE DATES ATTENDED DEGREE
FROM TO RECEIVED

Elementary Cienfuegos, Cuba 1936 1942 Yes
S. High School Cienfuegos, Cuba 1942 1947 Yes
Padres Dominicos Cienfuegos, Cuba Bachelor 1942 1947 No
Havana University Sugar Chemist 1947 1950 No
Havana University Medicine 1950 1953 No

23. LANGUAGES AND DIALECTS

(List below each language in which you possess any degree of competence.) LANGUAGES COMPETENCE

READ WRITE UNDERSTAND SPEAK

YES NO YES NO YES NO YES NO

Spanish X X X X

English

--- Page 20 ---

14-00000

24. INDICATE ANY WRITING GIVE DETAILS INCLUDING TITLES OF BOOKS OR ARTICLES, ALSO NAMES OF PUBLISHERS AND PUBLICA-
TION DATES.
None

25. SPECIAL SKILLS, ABILITIES, HOBBIES SUCH AS RADIO, PHOTOGRAPHY, ETC.
Hunting (good shot)

SECTION VII - MILITARY SERVICE

26. MILITARY SERVICE

COUNTRY UNIT RANK DUTY DATES

USA 1st Batallion 2nd Lt. 1963 1964
Fort Benning, Ga.

IDENTIFYING COUNTRY, INDICATE WHERE SERVICE PERFORMED, DECORATIONS, WHEN AND WHY DISCHARGED, GIVE DETAILS IF
PRISONER.
None

SECTION VIII - EMPLOYMENT HISTORY

NOTE INDICATE CHRONOLOGICAL HISTORY OF EMPLOYMENT LISTING LAST POSITION FIRST. INCLUDE ANY GOVERNMENT EMPLOYMENT.

a. INCLUSIVE DATES (From - To) b. EMPLOYER c. ADDRESS d. TYPE OF WORK e. SALARY OR EARNINGS f. REASON FOR LEAVING

1963-1964 U.S. Army Fort Benning, GA 2nd Lt. $ 400 month Cuban affairs

1960-1962 Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. Havana, Cuba Supervisor $ 1500 month Transfer

1956-1958 Self (Fumigadora) Cruces, Las Villas, Cuba Fumigation $ 250 month Self Employment

1946-1954 Pastora Sugar Mill San Jose de las Lajos Chemist $ 210 /month Sugar Mill Business

1944-1945 Sugar Mill Busting Las Villas, Cuba Chemist Studying

--- Page 21 ---

14-00000

SECTION IX - MARITAL STATUS

31. CHECK ONE: SINGLE MARRIED SEPARATED DIVORCED WIDOWED

32. STATE DATE, PLACE AND REASON FOR ALL SEPARATIONS, DIVORCES OR ANNULMENTS
None

SECTION X - FAMILY

WIFE OR IF YOU HAVE BEEN MARRIED MORE THAN ONCE, INCLUDING ANNULMENTS, USE SHEET FOR FORMER WIFE OR HUSBAND
HUSBAND GIVING DATA REQUIRED BELOW FOR ALL PREVIOUS MARRIAGES.

33. NAME OF SPOUSE (First) (Middle) (Last)
Nieves Elina Rosales

34. DATE OF MARRIAGE 13 Aug 1963 35. PLACE OF MARRIAGE Columbus, Ga. - Muscogee County

36. DATE OF BIRTH 15 Dec 1935 37. PLACE OF BIRTH Cienfuegos Cuba.

38. NATIONALITY AT BIRTH 39. SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS 40. PRESENT RESIDENCE (List address, if not presently residing with you)
Cuban

SECTION X

41. FULL NAME
Jose Luis Posada
45. SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS

SECTION XII - MOTHER

48. FULL NAME
Dolores Carriles
52. SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS
CHILDREN

42. YEAR OF BIRTH 43. PLACE OF BIRTH 44. NATIONALITY AT BIRTH
1955 Miami, Florida American

*SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS HELD BY ANY CHILD (Identify child and give his, or her, present address)
None

SECTION XI - FATHER

41. FULL NAME 42. YEAR OF BIRTH 43. PLACE OF BIRTH 44. NATIONALITY AT BIRTH
Luis Posada Unknown Cienfuegos, Cuba Cuban
46. OCCUPATION 47. PRESENT RESIDENCE
Book Store Unknown

49. YEAR OF BIRTH 50. PLACE OF BIRTH 51. NATIONALITY AT BIRTH
Dolores Capriles Unknown Cienfuegos, Cuba Cuban
52. OCCUPATION 53. PRESENT RESIDENCE
Housekeeper Same as for father

--- Page 22 ---

14-00000

SECTION XIII - BROTHERS AND SISTERS