14-0000
104-10114-10152
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

March 18, 1961

To: Mr. Jack Kermedy
WH//Security

AFFECTED FOR FFL tzen gang
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

On March 18, 1961, I spent hours with Court Wood and we discussed at great length his plans for the future and his participation in the activities of the FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE. Court seems to be extremely naive concerning his position with the Agency, and his vow open and frank with me in all areas.

I am certain that if given enough time, I can obtain a great deal of information the backgrounds and activities of many of his associates.

While visiting his apartment, I observed that both Court and his father are interested in a large number of Communist Publications. These included "U.S.S.R.", "The Worker," and many Prop. pamphlets that were obviously published in England.

Court is an extreme Leftist in his political views and he believes fanatically in Castro's Cuba.

Mr. Wood mentioned to me that he and several of his friends are making plans to enter Cuba in June; illegally if necessary. He apparently wants to become a tench for the Castro government and to make his permanent home there. Members of the "26th Movement" are in close contact with Court and they are involved in this boosed move to Cuba. Court does have some money and he seems to be very serious and great-hing. Within the next few days I health be able mass fic facts concerning their plans.

Please include this in my permanent record.

hael Stratt
H/4/Security
Ex 2929

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce
