14-00000
104-10179-10134 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

8/12

TO DIRECTOR

FROM: PARIS

ACTION: SAS 8 (SAS NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT 1735 19 JUN 63)

INFO: DOP, CI, CI/OPS, CI/OA, FI, RI/AN, VER, WHT, S/C.2

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce
Wall AND GREEN COPIES
KAICHED -
IN 63271

SECRET
77272

KPRITY DIR INFO PRITY MADR SJAN WAVE ROUTINE BRUS CITE PARI 9068

TYPIC
REF A PARI 9008 (IN 61964) 19 JUN 1963
B PARI 9049 (NOT SENT SJAN BRUS) (3094)

1. RAY CONTACTED BY JERVAY (UNDER IDEN A ALIAS) 17 AND 18 JUNE. IN ADDITION CONTACTS REPORTED PARA ONE PARI 8824 RAY HAS ALSO BEEN IN CONTACT UNRUMBLE 6, UNPAPIST, AND AT LEAST ONE CONTACT WITH AMSPORT 1. RAY DESIGNATED UNRUMBLE 6 AS HIS CONTACT MAN PARI. JERVAY NOT INTRODUCED BUT WILL CONTACT SHORTLY. STA FEELS THIS IS GOOD MOVE SINCE UNRUMBLE 6 APPEARS BE GOOD MAN AND HAS APPROACHED EMB IN PAST SEPARATELY FROM UNRUMBLE 2 WITH SOME INTERESTING PLANS. STA DID NOT APPROACH HIM DIRECTLY IN PAST BECAUSE DID NOT WANT TO DISTURB RELATIONSHIP WITH UNRUMBLE 2. CONABLE 2 WILL NEVERTHELESS BE WEIGHING UNRUMBLE 6 CURRENT RELATIONSHIP. RAY WAS DRIVEN AI ÉPORT BY ALBERTO BAS VECK RAY SPENT MUCH TIME AND WHO SEEMS BE CLOSEST TO HIS CONTACTS PARIS. CABRERA DID NOT PHONE OR COME ENRIS OVER WEEKEND. CONTINUE MONITOR FOR DEVELOPMENTS THROUGH UNRUMBLE 6.
AUTOMATIC DOWNGRADING
OF CLASSIFICATION BY OTHER THAN
ORIGINATING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

6/PV
1
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
CLAY TO FILE

SECRET
IN 63271 PAGE

A-SE SOLE RAY BELIEVES CABRERA WILL WORK ON ARCOS BUT SAYS MAN WHO COULD REALLY DO THE JOB IS ARCOS UNCLE WHO IN PUERTO RICO AND KNOWN TO RAY. HE COULD NOT REMEMBER NAME OR EXACT RELATIONSHIP. RAY PLANS CONTACT HIM ON RETURN AND GROOM HIM FOR TASK. RAY ASKED BE INFORMED WHEN ARCOS RETURNS BRUS.

4. KUBARK STAFFER (IDEN B) OF CONGRESS OF CULTURAL FREEDOM MET RAY AT LEAST TWICE. EXCELLENT RAPPORT. HE ARRANGED RAY'S PRESS INTERVIEW WITH GUILLON DE MOULINS (INCORRECTLY REPORTED IN PARA FIVE PARI 8947) OF LE MONDE. ALSO ARRANGED DINNER 03 JUNE. WAS NONCOMMITTAL BUT ENCOURAGING ABOUT JOB POSSIBILITY FOR FRANQUI SHOULD HE DEFECT.

5. RAY SEEMS TO BE CONFIDENT FRANQUI WILL JOIN HIS CAMP IN NOT TOO DISTANT FUTURE AND RELYING ON CABRERA TO CONTINUE WORKING ON HIM. STA NOT SO CONVINCED AND PLANS PROCEED ALONG LINES DIR 48158 AND PARI 9067 (NOT SENT SJAN, BRUS).

6. POSSIBLE REFERENCE TO GUEDE TALK WITH FRANQUI IS IN 8 JUNE. UNSOX. AMB GRAMATGES MENTIONS TO SINOBAS THAT MARIO (PRESUMABLY THIRD SECY MARIO GRACIA VARELA) CALLED FROM THE EXHIBITION SAYING THAT SOME ANTI-CASTRO ELEMENTS WERE ABOUT AND THAT FRANQUI ASKED FOR SOME MORE PEOPLE FROM THE EMBASSY TO BE AROUND THE EXHIBITION. ALSO 12 VYNE UNSIERRA UNSNAFU 12 COMMENTS TO UNSNAFU 16 THAT SOME "GU SANOS" WERE AT THE PHOTOGRAPHIC EXHIBITION AND THE FRENCH POLICE WENT BY CUBAN EMB TO ASK IF THEY SHOULD GUARD THE EXHIBIT. HOWEVER THIS LATTER PROBABLY NOT REFERENCE TO GUEDE OTHER THAN THIS STA HAS NO INDICATION FRANQUI HAS TALKED ABOUT APPROACH TO HIM. RAY FEELS TRIP EUROPE WAS VERY PROFITABLE. DESPITE FACT HE HAS NO FIRM COMMITMENT FROM FRANQUI, CABRERA OR ARCOS HE

SECRET

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000
2/17/

SECRET
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
IN 63271 PAGE 3

SEEMS CONFIDENT THEY WILL JOIN HIM EVENTUALLY. HE FEELS HE HAS TIGHTENED UP AND INSPIRED HIS "ORGANIZATION" PARIS. SAYS HAS GAINED IMPRESSION FROM TALKS WITH CUBANS HERE THAT DISILLUSIONMENT AMONG CUBAN EMBASSIES AND OFFICIALS INSIDE CUBA HAS GROWN CONSIDERABLY. RAY CONVINCED IT POSSIBLE TO OVERTHROW CASTRO CLEANLY AND SIMPLY. WANTS DEVOTE OWN APPARATUS TO IDENTIFYING DISAFFECTED ELEMENTS IN CUBA AND BUILDING UP SUPPLY APPARATUS IN AND OUTSIDE CUBA TO SERVE THEM.

RAY ASKED FOR FOLL:
A. UP TO DATE LIST OF PERSONNEL AND ADDRESS OF ALL CUBAN EMBASSIES IN EUROPE TO BE PASSED HIM IN SJAN AND UNRUMBLE 6 IN PARIS. HE WANTS BEGIN MAILING PROPAGANDA AND LETTERS TO STIMULATE FURTHER DISAFFECTION PERSONNEL.

B. TRAINING OF HIMSELF IN SJAN AND UNRUMBLE 6 PARI IN IDENTICAL SW SYSTEM WHICH THEY CAN USE FOR CORRESPONDENCE BETWEEN SJAN AND PARI AND ALSO INTO CUBA. STA FELT BOTH THESE IDEAS SHOULD BE ENCOURAGED AND RAY WAS TOLD COULD BE DONE. WOULD APPRECIATE HOS PROVISION OF ITEM A AND DESIGNATION OF SW SYSTEM. RAY ALSO ASKED WE LINE UP JOB FOR CABRERA AS EUROPE REP SOME PAPER AS DISCUSSED WITH NAUMAN PER PARI 6947. WOULD APPRECIATE HAS FOLLOW-UP ON THIS.
SOLID ACCOMPLISHMENT
VAS
IS IMPRESSED BY KING RELATION. BELIEVE HE HIT IT OFF WELL WITH NAUMAN GROVERY AND JERVAY AND GAINED CONFIDENCE BUR SUPPORT WHICH MAY ALLEVIATE SOMEWHAT SOME PAST PROBLEMS YUDARK RELATIONSHIP.
INDEXS
SECRET
RAY DEPARTING PART 015 ARRIVING
SECRET
1300 HOURS
