```markdown
13-00000

104-10305-10000

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SUBJECT:

CLASSIFICATION:

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM
RELEASE IN FULL 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SEE

FILE NUMBER

IF

THIS FILE IS PULLED WITHOUT TAKING ANY ACTION ALSO CONSULTING THE FOLLOWING FILE:

DATE 28 JANUARY 75

FILE NUMBER 526113

ITHOUT

ELLES ON RELATIVES AND ASSOCIATES: (DUE TO WATERGATE ASSOCIATION OF GOMEZ, LOUIS H., SR (NOVEL, GORDON DWAYNE); OS# 925945 (ASSOCIATE OF BACCUZZI, ANDRES RENZE, JR OSH 190442 BACCUZZI, JANET ELNORA OUSIN 925945) OS # 107919 (19044

OFFICE AND TITLE

E. EVANS

GROUP.

FORM 7-62 1954

CLASSIFICATION

SIGNATURE

Elworl

EXCLUDED FROM ACTO DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

(-40)

13-00000

INFORMATION REQUEST FLAG

THIS FORM IS USED TO SAFEGUARD FROM INADVERTENT DESTRUCTION RECORDS THAT ARE INVOLVED IN FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT OR PRIVACY ACT REQUESTS, LITIGATION, OR MATTERS UNDER INVESTIGATION BY THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE OR CONGRESS. IT MUST BE FILED IN THE FRONT OF A FOLDER TO LIST ALL DOCUMENTS IN THE FOLDER RELATED TO A SPECIFIC REQUEST (one form for each request), OR AS A SINGLE ATTACHMENT TO EACH INDIVIDUAL DOCUMENT. IT MUST NOT BE REMOVED FROM THE DOCUMENT OR FOLDER UNTIL THE RECORD SERIES IS DUE FOR DESTRUCTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH APPROVED RECORDS CONTROL SCHEDULES AT WHICH TIME DISPOSITION OF FLAGGED RECORDS WILL BE CHECKED WITH THE COMPONENT RECORDS MANAGEMENT OFFICER AND OTHER AUTHORITIES AND WILL BE DEPENDENT ON THE STATUS OF EACH REQUEST.

TYPE OF REQUEST

*   CONGRESSIONAL INVESTIGATIONS
*   DEPT. OF JUSTICE INVESTIGATIONS
*   MANDATORY CLASSIFICATION REVIEW
*   OTHER (specify) OGC 2/37

REQUEST NO.

SUBJECT OF REQUEST NOVEL, Gordon

DOCUMENTS SUBJECT TO REQUEST INCLUDE FILE NO., SYMBOL, DATE AND SUBJECT

REMARKS DATE OF COMPONENT RESPONSE

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM RELEASE IN FULL 1998

DATE OF REQUEST 1979

CONTINUED ON SEPARATE PAGE INFORMATION REQUEST.

CONTINUED ON SEPARATE PAGE

DATE APPEALED (if applicable)

DO NOT REMOVE THIS FORM FROM THIS FILE

FORM 4016 9-77

13-00000

Gordon Rivers

CONFIDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

EXTENSION NO. #526 113

DATE 31 August 1983

RELEASE IN FULL 1998

WARNING NOTICE: INTELLIGENCE SOURCES OR METHODS INVOLVED

610 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS 1788

OFFICER'S INITIALS

M

саз

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

In response to the attached Incident Report dated 29 August 1983, the undersigned, on 30 August 1983, telephonically contacted Sergeant Haas, who is the supervisor of Detective Arthur Trollinger in Fort Lauderdale's Organized Crime Division. Several attempts to contact Trollinger on 29 and 30 August 1983 had been unsuccessful. Sergeant Haas was advised that a Gordon Novel, believed to be identical to the Gordon Novel of interest to Fort Lauderdale's Organized Crime Division, is not now nor has he ever been an employee or employed in any capacity by the CIA. The undersigned added that since the late 60's Gordon Novel has periodically claimed employment with the CIA. Sergeant Haas advised that Gordon Novel is a suspect in a bomb threat case. No further action is contemplated regarding this matter, and it is recommended that this case be closed.

Carte Riven

Cornus in clocking.

Mich

Case closed.

CL BY 235 967

DECL OADR.

Moral

DERIVED FROM COV 1-82

CONFIDENTIAL

13-00000

Headquarters Security Branch Security Duty Office

INCIDENT REPORT

Date of Incident 29 August 1983 Date of Report 29 August 1983

Time of Incident 1245 Hours Time of Report 1430 Hours

Name NOVEL, Gordon W. (u) Grade NA Office NA

DOB: 07 February 1938

Incident Request for Office of Security Assistance (U)

Summary of Information: (305) 761-2314

Received a call from Detective Arthur Trollinger, Ft. Lauderdale Organized Crime Division, who requested Office of Security assistance in verifying the employment of SUBJECT with the Central Intelligence Agency. Caller provided the following information. (U)

SUBJECT, a convicted arsonist with ties to organized crime, is in the Ft. Lauderdale area. He is claiming to be affiliated with the Agency and under this guise has approached several companies specializing in electronic surveillance. It is for this reason that caller wishes to verify SUBJECT's employment. (U)

Caller provided the following description of SUBJECT:

DOB: 07 February 1938

HEIGHT: 5'8"

WEIGHT: 177 LBS.

HAIR: BROWN

EYES: BLUE

Advised caller a report of his call would be made and forwarded to the appropriate office for any action deemed necessary. (U)

ACTION TAKEN:

As stated. Copies forwarded to C/SSD for appropriate action. (n).

Contacted and briefed Curt Rivers, SSD, who requested a copy of this report. (C)

A check of SRD indices reflects (2) two hits in name of SUBJECT and OSDO indices reflects (1) hit in name of SUBJECT. (U)

BHS BR

Reporting Officer Chief, Headquarters Security Branch

WARNING NOTICE

INTELLIGENCE SOURCES OR METHODS INVOLVED

FORM 1798 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

7-82

LDA

CL BY 039183

DECL OADR

CONFIDENTIAL DERIVED FROM Cov-1-82

13-00000

COMTEN NO. 4 LINE EF

\*\*\* RUFFING COMPUTER CENTER 63.2 \*\*\*

PLEASE ENTER SWITCHING CHARACTERS: SANCA

CONNECTED

COMTEN NO. 4 LINE EF

\*\*\* RUFFING COMPUTER CENTER 63.2 \*\*\*

.DM072

ENTER PASSWORD

REQUEST BEING VALIDATED

NOVEL, GORDON OS 67 M0526113

/Y M

/Z 2103152

NOVEL, GORDON DWANE OR 76 M0592178

/Y M /D LTR 210CT76 VOL. 4 OGC RECORDS SEARCH REQ

/Z 2743598

\*\*\* END OF HITS

HITS= 2

13-00000

NOVEL, Gordon

414 Baybrook Dr.

Seabrook, Texas

713-474-5108

Subject advised that he had an economic formula which would love the world dollar dumping crisis.

IR 9 February 1973

13-00000

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL USE ONLY

CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional) NIS Report on US Persons

EXTENSION NO.

FROM CEBehrens C/PO 2E03 DATE

REFERENCE DATE RECEIVED FORWARDED OFFICER'S INITIALS

1/3180

Bill O'Donnell Office of Security Liaison GH 02 4E2711 31/01/31 JAN 1980 1980

January 24, 1980

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

Attached is NIS report which I believe is the only copy sent to this agency. This is of no interest to the DDO but may be of interest to someone in Security

Cas

3-5 Novell has been of interest to SAG.

1/31 Cal suggest the NIS memo be forwarded to S16 for info

ED.

Concour with SAG referial. Ewan

49.

C/SPG - fon Rounded Act Weight to clarify wing AS NECESSARY

WE OUGHT TO CLARIFY with NIS THAT HE WAS NEVER Employed with CIA

Along

11/09/15T

инве

10. Kleave houbbe

15:

FORM 610 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

3-62

SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL USE ONLY UNCLASSIFIED

13-00000

NAVAL INVESTIGATIVE SERVICE

WARNING

THE ATTACHED DOCUMENTATION IS THE PROPERTY OF THE:

NAVAL INVESTIGATIVE SERVICE

AND IS PART OF THE NIS INVESTIGATIVE FILES SYSTEM WHICH IS EXEMPT FROM VARIOUS PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVACY ACT (5 U.S.C. 552a). REQUESTS FOR ACCESS TO OR DISCLOSURE OF THE ATTACHED DOCUMENT(S) MUST BE REFERRED TO THE DIRECTOR, NAVAL INVESTIGATIVE SERVICE. SECNAVINST 5211.5 SERIES REFERS.

DATE: 18 JAN 1980

SERIAL:

FROM: Director, Naval Investigative Service

TO: Central Intelligence Agency, Deputy Director for Operations Policy & Coordination Staff, ATTN: Liaison Control, Room 2E0308, Washington, D.C.

SUBJ: NOVEL Gordon/Civilian

ENCL: (1) NAVINVSERVO New Orleans NOR dtd 09 Jan 1980

1. UNLESS NOTED BELOW, THE ATTACHED DOCUMENTATION MAY BE DISCLOSED ONLY TO DOD PERSONNEL WHOSE OFFICIAL DUTIES REQUIRE ACCESS THERETO. IT MUST NOT BE FILED IN PERSONNEL SERVICE RECORDS OR RETAINED IN OTHER FILES EXCEPT ON A TEMPORARY BASIS. IT IS FURNISHED FOR THE FOLLOWING PURPOSE AND SUBJECT TO THE DISPOSITION INDICATED:

Final Report for any action deemed appropriate. Any prior reports not enclosed have been previously furnished.

Pending Report for any future action deemed appropriate. Any prior reports not enclosed have been previously furnished.

No action required. Information is of official interest.

Destroy when it has served the purpose for which provided.

Return to Sender within 30 / 60 days.

Return in sealed envelope marked to be opened only by:

D. E. USREY

BY DIRECTION

IT IS CERTIFIED THAT THE RECORD COPIES OF THE ATTACHED DOCUMENTS ARE BEING RETAINED IN THE NAVAL INVESTIGATIVE SERVICE IN STRICT ACCORDANCE WITH SECNAVINST 3820.2 SERIES AND DOD DIRECTIVE 5200.27 SERIES.

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY!

If Classified OPNAVINST 5510.1 Series Applies

NIS Document Cover Sheet (NIS Form 5000/7 (12-75))

USA

13-00000

N'IS PFR ATI ONS REPORT

CONTROL CODE 0 @HQ

DISTRIBUTION //E I-N0022/ /

DATE 01-09-80

01-09-8008-H067- INTC/F

STATUS .ONLY

MADE AT IN IS O NEW OR LEANS

REQUESTER MADE BY S/A G L DUFFY

SUPPLEMENTAL DATE

SEX SOCIAL SECURITY NO. MILITARY SERVICE NO. BIRTH (DATE) (GPC) (PLACE)

M NI

TITLE S/NOVEL, GORDON/CIVILIAN (D IRC SENSITIVE)

06 91 82 OZ

COPY TO D CI O FA

4-8 JAN, 1980

EVAL: 4-8 JAN 1980/ NEW ORLEANS, LA F-6

SOURCE: VARIOUS

1. ON 4 JANUARY 1980 THE REPORTING AGENT RECEIVED A CALL (IN HIS ABSENCE) FROM AN INDIVIDUAL WHO IDENTIFIED HIMSELF AS GORDON NOVEL. HE INDICATED TO THE PERSON TAKING THE CALL THAT THE SUBJECT TO BE DISCUSSED WAS "WASHINGTON". THE REPORTING AGENT RETURNED THE CALL AND IN THE ENSUING CONVERSATION NOVEL INDICATED THAT HE WAS IN-VOLVED IN A "COMMERCIAL VENTURE." AND FELT THAT THE RESULTS MIGHT BE OF INTEREST TO CONI”. HE INDICATED, IN ESSENCE, THAT HIS PRO-JECT INVOLVED OUTFITTING A "FAST PATROL CRAFT" WITH VARIOUS MEANS DF TESTING DEFENSE SYSTEMS (NFIL. HE INDICATED THE TAKE FROM THIS PROJECT WOULD PROVIDE INTELLIGENCE DATA ON A VARIETY OF WORLD-WIDE DEFENSE SYSTEMS. HE INDICATED THE BRITISH WERE INVOLVED IN A SIMILAR PROJECT.

2. DURING THE CONVERSATION HE MENTIONED, ON SEVERAL OCCASIONS, THAT HE FELT ON I" WOULD BE THE AGENCY WITHIN THE NAVY TO RECEIVE HIS INFORMATION. WHEN THE MISSION OF NIS WAS EXPLAINED TO HIM HE EX-PRESSED SURPRISED THAT PON I NO LONGER EXISTED AND THAT NIS HAD NO POS IT IVE INTELLIGENCE COLLECTION MISSION.

3. DURING THE COURSE OF THIS CONVERSATION NOVEL FREQUENTLY REFER KEO 170 "MY COMPANY". AWHEN ASKED A DIRECT QUESTION REGARDING THE IDENTITY OF HIS COMPANY HE SAID YOU KNOW "THE COMPANY, CIA". HE EXPRESSED DIS PLEASURE WITH CIA AND STATED THAT SHOULD ME EVEN INVOLVE HIMSELF IN A CONTRACTUAL ARRANGEMENT WITH THE NAVY HE WOULD NOT ALLOW ANY OF HIS INFORMATION TO BE PASSED TO CIA.

4. AT THIS POINT THE REPORTING AGENT INDICATED TO MR. NOVEL THAT WIS WOULD HAVE NO INTEREST IN HIS PROJECT THAT POSSIBLY SOMEONE ELSE WITHIN THE NAVAL INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY MIGHT BE INTERESTE O AND THAT IF THE REPORTING AGENT LEARNED OF SUCH HE WOULD RECONT ACT NOV EL.

5. THE PHONE NUMBER LEFT BY NOVEL WHEN HE INITIALLY CALLED SEEKING THE PEPORTING AGENT IS 50 4–83 1–20 15. THE NOVEMBER 1979 GREATER NEW ORLEANS TELEPHONE DIPECTORY (I NO ICATES THAT 831-2019 IS THE TELEPHONE

CLASSIFICATION.. PAGE N.OR 1

DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY

S/N 0107 LF900 - 1:01 WARNING ATTACHMENT (/).

THIS DOCUMENT IS THE PROPERTY OF THE NAVAL INVESTIGATIVE SERVICE CONTENTS MAY BE DISCLOSED ONLY TO PERSONS WHOSE OFFICIAL DUTIES REQUIRE ACCESS HERETO. CONTENTS MAY NOT BE DISCLOSED TO THE PARTY(S) CONCERNED WITHOUT SPECIFIC AUTHORIZATION FROM THE NAVAL INVESTIGATIVE SERVICE.

NAVAL INTELLIGENCE - NAVAL INVESTIGATIVE SERVICE

NIS STANDARD SYSTEM DOCUMENT NAVINTCOM 5000-1 (4C)·(9/69)

13-00000

UNCLA

NISATIONS REPORT

CODE D BHQ

DISTRIBUTION

MADE AT

REQUESTER

DATE 01-09-80

'0 09 18 20 Z

CONTROL STATUS

101-09-8 ON 08-H 06 7- IN TC /F.

ONL

COPY TO

MADE BY

SUPPLEMENTAL DATE

SEX SOCIAL SECURITY NO. MILITARY SERVICE NO. BIRTH (DATE) (GPC) (PLACE)

NI

TITLE S/NOVEL GORDON/CIVILIAN (D IRC SENSITIVE)

NUMBER FOR TOM. JEFF OR MICHAEL TEACHWORTM, 936 LAKE AVENUE. METAIRIE, LA (A SUBURG OF NEW ORLEANS.). IT WAS DETERMINED THAT SUBJECT OBTAINED REPORTING AGENTS NAME AND PHONE NUMBER AFTER HE MADE AN INITIAL TELEPHONIC INQUIRY OF THE ASAC, NISSA WASHINGTON.

DURING THIS CONTACT NOVEL I NO IC ATED HE LIVED IN NEW ORLEANS BUT HE DID NOT REVEAL THE NATURE OF MIS INTEREST..

0. A OCII CHECK OF SUBJECT AND OF THE VARIOUS TEACHWORTHS (CON DUCTED WITH LIMITED IDENT IF YING DATA) WAS NEGATIVE. A CHECK OF THE NUISANCE FILES AT NISHO REGARDING NOVEL AND THE TEACHWORTHS WAS ALSO NEGATIVE.

7. ON 8 JANUARY 1980 AN ARTICLE APPEARED IN THE NEW ORLEANS TIMES-PICAYUNE WHICH RE PORTED LEGAL ACTIONS INVOLVING ONE GORDON NOVEL WITH RESPECT TO HIS CONVICTION FOR AGGRAVATED ARSON. PRESENT LEGAL ACTION REPORTEDLY INVOLVES NOVELS APPEAL OF THE CONVICTION AS WELL AS HIS ATTEMPT TO GAIN PERMIS SI ON ITO LEAVE THE STATE OF LOUIS IA NA DURING THE APPEAL PROCESS. I NF OR NA TION IN THE ARTICLE INDICATES THAT NOVEL WAS CONVICTED IN LATE 1978 TO THREE YEARS IN PRISON AS RESULT OF HIS INVOLVEMENT IN A PLAN TO FIRE BOMB A NEW ORLEANS BUILDING DURING EARLY 1976.

NO FURTHER CONTACT WITH NOVEL IS CONTEMPLATED ON THE BASIS OF THE FOREGOING AND THIS INFORMATION IS HEPORTED MERELY TO PROVIDE A RECOPO OF HIS CONTACT WITH NISO NEW ORLEANS.

THE PROVISIONS OF DOD DIRECTIVE 5200.27 (SECNAVINST 3820.28). APPLY IT Q THIS DOCUMENT.. US N AN O OTHER DOD RECIPIENTS MAY RETAIN THIS REPORT NOT LATER THAN 31 DEC 1980.

CLASSIFICATION F OR OFFICIAL USE: ONLY

PAGE 2.

WARNING THIS DOCUMENT IS THE PROPERTY OF THE NAVAL INVESTIGATIVE SERVICE CONTENTS MAY BE DISCLOSED ONLY TO PERSONS WHOSE OFFICIAL DUTIES REQUIRE ACCESS HERETO. CONTENTS MAY NOT BE DISCLOSED TO THE PARTY(S) CONCERNED WITHOUT SPECIFIC GLD AUTHORIZATION FROM THE NAVAL INVESTIGATIVE SERVICE.

DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY NAVAL INTELLIGENCE - NAVAL INVESTIGATIVE SERVICE

S/N 0107 LF 900 101 NIS STANDARD SYSTEM DOCUMENT NAVINTCOM 5000-1 (4C).(9/69)

13-00000

TRANSMITAL SLIP

DATE 20 Aug

TO Ops Support Branch

ROOM NO. 4E-27

BUILDING Headquarters

REMARKS: FYI

MR. SULLIVAN

HF

те

.pcs

PULC

N

ANY ACTION

FICE ON

HOVEL. DON'T SEE

EXCEPT

TO ADVISE FOIA

OFFICE

Done

24 Aug

Notifed WAREEN

FROM: Chief, Central Staff/DCD Priestly

ROOM NO. 913

BUILDING Key

FORM 241

1 FEB 55

REPLACES FORM 36-8

WHICH MAY BE USED.

EXTENSION .3767

8/24 Ranting to SAG FOR INFO

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM RELEASE IN FULL 1998

13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

14 August 1981

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Telephone Conversation with Gordon Novel

Gordon Novel called the New Orleans office on 13 August 1981. Ronald Farris was away on Annual Leave and had arranged to have his calls forwarded automatically to the Houston Field Office's listed telephone number. When the call was answered with the Houston number, Novel indicated that he was calling the New Orleans office. He was told that Farris was out of the office for a week and his calls were being relayed to Houston. Novel asked how he would go about obtaining his personal Agency file under the Freedom of Information Act. He was told that he should address a letter to Freedom of Information Coordinator with his request. He then indicated that he had done this already, and the information sent to him was so severely edited and sanitized that it was difficult to make sense of it. He did, however, discover that it contained information that was erroneous and he asked how to go about refuting the misinformation and/or correcting the file. It was suggested that he write a letter detailing the discrepancies and request that a change be made. He did not seem interested in doing that and promptly changed his line of questioning. He asked how he would go about contacting the Director of the Agency directly. He was told that he should use the local representative, Mr. Farris, to relay any information he might wish to get to the Director. Novel indicated that he had only talked to Farris once, but was anxious to bypass the usual channels to avoid having his information mishandled or misconstrued. He was told that Farris was a highly qualified representative of the Agency and the proper individual to contact regarding information he wished to get to the Director's attention. He gave a small sinister chuckle and replied, "We'll see about that," then hung up.

CC: Chief, Central Staff. New Orleans Resident Office

Colleen R. Webb DCD/Houston Field Office

CONFIDENTIAL

13-00000

INTERNAL USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional) Pending Litigation Gordon Novel

EXTENSION NO.

FROM: Raymond M. Reardon Security Analysis Group

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building} C/SAG

DATE RECEIVED FORWARDED OFFICER'S INITIALS

29 APR 1977

29 1 APR 1977

1. C/ops/ps/ 29 1

2. DO/PSI 4/24

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

DATE 29 April 1977

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.).

26 FEB. 1974 conectic verbally t www was Jansen that 31 Dec 1974 was cont 4/29/11 8 date 2-3 is correct Bruce Stoli Suggest we hief 0/05 at next morning meeting because of the alleged iswrobement of foner 4/29/11

FORM 610 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL USE ONLY UNCLASSIFIED

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM RELEASE IN FULL 1998

13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

29 April 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Security Analysis Group

FROM: Raymond M. Reardon

SUBJECT: Pending Litigation - Gordon Novel

1.  Gordon Novel is a somewhat notorious figure who first came to the attention of this Agency during the Garrision Investigation into the assassination of President Kennedy. From time to time he has claimed to be a CIA employee or to be acting on behalf of the CIA. He has never been employed by the Agency and has had no contacts with the Agency except for occasional visits to Domestic Collection Division offices. He has been in several scrapes with the law, most recently in October 1976 when he was on trial for conspiracy to firebomb several buildings in New Orleans. Mr. Novel has now filed a civil suit claiming alleged violations of his rights and interference with his personal affairs. He is not suing the Agency but he has named Mr. Howard Osborn as a defendant. Mr. Osborn has been in touch with the Office of General Counsel seeking representation by the Justice Department since he feels his being named in the suit probably resulted from his official duties with the Agency.

2.  On 27 April 1977 Mr. George Jameson of the Office of General Counsel contacted the undersigned to inquire whether we had a file on Novel and if the file showed any reason why Mr. Novel should have named Mr. Osborn as a defendant in the suit. Mr. Jameson was given a rundown on the nature of the information in Novel's file and was also provided with Mr. Osborn's retirement date, 26 February 1974. Mr. Jameson mentioned that most of the alleged activities complained about by

-313ec94

CONFIDENTIAL

E2 IMPDET

CL BY 007472

13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

Novel occurred in 1975 and there is no apparent reason for Novel having singled out Mr. Osborn as a defendant. Mr. Jameson also requested traces on two individuals who are alleged to have been involved in this matter-- Entry Riapacote and Bridget Pfiffer. He was advised that the Office of Security had no record of either of these individuals.

3.  Mr. Jameson indicated that we would probably be receiving a formal request for pertinent information as this case develops, but he merely needed a preliminary reading in order to determine if Mr. Osborn should be defended by the Department of Justice in this litigation. Aside from indexing the names of Blanscett and Pfiffer to Novel's file, no further action is contemplated by the undersigned.

CC: Osborn File

Raymond M. Reardon Security Analysis Group

CONFIDENTIAL

13-00000

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM: Raymond M. Reardon Deputy Chief Security Analysis Group

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)

DATE RECEIVED FORWARDED OFFICER'S INITIALS

14 February 1980

EXTENSION NO. 1468

DATE

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

1. C/SAG 14 11980

2. C/OPS FEB

3. DD/PSI 14 1980

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

The attached was prepared based on C/OPS/PSI request that we advise NIS that Subject has never been employed by the CIA.

Ray Reardon

FOR SIGNATURE

Belease to Nis

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM RELEASE IN FULL 1998

FORM 610 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

1-79

13-00000

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

MEMORANDUM FOR: The Director

FROM: William R. Kotapish Acting Director of Security

SUBJECT: Gordon Novel 15 FEB 1980

Reference is made to your memorandum of transmittal dated 18 January 1980 which forwarded a Naval Investigative Service Operations Report dated 9 January 1980. The report dealt with a contact of your New Orleans Office with one Gordon Novel. According to the report, during his contact Mr. Novel indicated that he had a relationship with the Central Intelligence Agency. This is to advise you that a check of the appropriate records of the Central Intelligence Agency has determined that Mr. Novel is not and has never been an employee of this Agency.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE:

Edwal Jones for William R. Kotapish

Distribution:

Orig Addressee

1 AD/Security

1 OS Registry

1 SAG

Novel File

OS/PSI/SAG/RMR:jan (14FEB80)

REVOLUTION AMERICAN 1776-1976 BICENTENNIAL

13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM RELEASE IN FULL 1998

21 OCT 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: General Counsel

ATTENTION: Mr. John K. Greaney

FROM: Edwal Jones Deputy Director of Security Personnel Security and Investigations

SUBJECT Gordon Dwane Novel; Lawrence B. Rohde; Allen D. Bell, Jr.

1. Reference is made to your 20 October 1976 priority request (OGC 76-5787) which asks that the Office of Security search its indices to determine if any of the above-named individuals have ever been employed by the Agency. Reference is further made to our telephonic response to you on 20 October 1976 confirming that none of these individuals have ever been employed by the Agency.

2. This memorandum will serve to confirm the referenced telephonic response. Office of Security indices contain no record in the name of Lawrence B. Rohde, which was also searched in the variation of Lawrence B. Rhode. The Office of Security does maintain files on Gordon Dwane Novel and Allen D. Bell Jr and a brief summary of the information contained within these files appears below:

Gordon Dwane Novel, SP#S26 113

Mr. Novel has a long history of leaving the impression that he is either employed by or associated with the CIA. Mr. Novel has not, however, ever been an employee of the Agency in any capacity. The Office of Security file on Mr. Novel was established in 1967 by virtue of his involvement with the Garrison investigation of the assassination of President Kennedy. During the ensuing period Mr. Novel has both telephoned and written to the

CONFIDENTIAL

E2 IMPDET CL BY 063483

OS 6 4555/A AD

13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

Agency with various proposals, none of which have been followed-up by the Agency. Most recently, Mr. Novel was in contact with the Domestic Collection Division (DCD) in New Orleans, Louisiana, in October 1975 and February 1976 to volunteer various proposals. Mr. Novel's proposals were rejected by DCD, and Mr. Novel was requested to refrain from future contact with that office,

Allen D. Bell, Jr., SF#648 216

Nr. Bell is President of Dektor Counter-intelligence and Security, Incorporated, Springfield, Virginia, and has appeared widely in the news media as a "wiretapping expert," most recently in connection with the Watergate hearings. Mr. Bell has never been employed by the Agency. The Office of Security file on Mr. Bell was established in 1970 based on a request from the Technical Security Division, Directorate of Operations (TSD) for a Contact Security Approval. Cited approval was granted in November 1971, although Mr. Bell's file does not reflect the specific purpose for the request nor if Mr. Bell was actually contacted. Mr. Bell was also of interest to DCD in October 1973; however, the specific purpose of this interest is not contained within Mr. Bell's file.

3. As indicated, a review of our records failed to disclose any indication that Mr. Novel, Mr. Rohde, or Mr. Bell have ever been employed by the Agency in any capacity.

Edwal Jones

Edwal Jones

Distribution:

Orig & 1 Addressee

1 OS Registry

1 DD/PSI

1 SAG

1 OGC File

1 Bell File

1 Novel File

CONFIDENTIAL

OS/PSI/SAG/JSHUNT:jan (210CT76)

13-00000

FORM NO. MAY 56 REPLACES FORM 35.1 238

WHICH IS OBSOLETE.

SEC. CL. ORIGIN DOCUMENT CONTROL (13-40)

MFG 1-76

CONTROL NO.

Assoc. General Counsel, OS 6.4555

DATE OF DOC DATE REC'D DATE OUT SUSPENSE DATE

10/20/76 10/20/76

TO D/Security; D/Personnel

FROM John K. Greaney

SUBJ. Gordon Dwane Novel

DEADLINE COB 20 Oct 76

CROSS REFERENCE OR POINT OF FILING OGC 76-5787.

ROUTING DATE SENT AD/Sec 10/20 /DD/PSI 10/20

COURIER NO. ANSWERED NO REPLY

13-00000

TATES ITEM 1967.

Novel Admitted Bunker Theft, Rhodes Is Told

Continued from Page 1

New Orleans to Houma at night in a Lincoln automobile owned and driven by Gordon Novel and in a panel Cuck

Novel Admitted Bunker Theft, Rhodes Is Told

An affidavit filed with new extradition papers sent to Co-lumbus, Ohio, claims that Gordon Novel admitted his ranpurglary of a munitions bunker in Houma in 1961. The new extradition papers were sent to Ohlo Gov. James Rhodes as part of Orleans

"AFTER ARRIVING at the site of the bunker, which was leased by Schlumberger Well Services Corp., the defendant, Gordon Novel, Sergio Arça cha Smith, David W. Ferrie, and others, unnamed, un-lawfully entered it by cutting the lock with a pair of bolt cutters which had been brought along for the purpose

"After entry into the bunk er (they) took various forms of explosives and munitions: Thereafter they returned to the city of New Orleans with the stolen munitions,"

formation was obtained from ere asked or what in-

The extradition papers also declined to say what ques tions were

included a photograph of Notions were or what in-vel identified by a former formation was obtained from

girl friend, Marlene Mancy-the man xa

80 42 Oaklawn dr., Metairie, He is Juan M. Valdes, a self-who had dated Novel in 1961. described Latin playwright who

THE DOCUMENTS also described Latin playwright who contain a copy of the simple figured in one of the city's more

burglary charge leveled sensational murders. A subpena against Novel and Arcacha by was issued for him yesterday.

the sheriff of Terrebonne Valdes in the summer of

Parish The affidavit was 1964 discovered the mutilated

signed by Capt. Bert Boyne, body of Dr. Mary Stults Sher

Meanwhile, the DA's office man, a women physician who

sald a new figure in the in- occupied the same St. Charles

vestigation scheduled for ave. apartment building where

questioning today was inter- the summoned witness lives,

viewed last night by a Gar-

rison aide

HE WAS investigating smoke

coming from the Sherman

apartment when he stumbled

onto the body. Dr. Sherman's

killer who has never been

found tried to burn the body,

Garrison would not comment

on what questions will be ask

ed Valdes,

Another Latin, 80-year-old

AR Carlos Quiroga, spent two hours

and ten minutes before the

grand jury yesterday and

emerged without comment, 30

QUIROGA Cuban exlle,

was once a close friend and

associale of a fugitive witness

from the Garrison inquiry, 44-

year-old Sergio Arcacha Smith,

Stales

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM RELEASE IN FULL 1998

13-00000

Shaw Trial Attorneys Ordered to Keep Quiet

NEW ORLEANS (AP) candidate for attorney general Criminal District Court Judge in the last Minnesota election, Edward Haggerty Jr. today is on trial in U.S. District Court ordered the prosecution and here charged with fraud and defense in the Clay L. Shaw's conspiracy in the collapse of Kennedy assassination conspir- the American Allied Insurance acy trial to refrain from pre-trial Co. of St. Paul, Minn. publicity. He told them to quit Kroman had called a news discussing evidence. conference for 7. p.m. today The judge said at a news when he aald he would tell of conference he would invoke the his private investigation into canons of professional ethics "to the assassination of Kennedy. prevent the flow of prejudicial It was not known what Kro-pre-trial publicity" from either man intended to say. A state Shaw's attorneys or from Dist. highway patrolman found Kro-Atty. Jim Garrison's staff. man in his locked car at 4 He said the arraignment of a.m. 24 miles east of Bismarck. Shaw, indicted by the grand jury Kroman was paralyzed and in-March 17 on charges of conspir- coherent, the policeman said. ing to assassinate President A loaded shotgun was across John F. Kennedy, probably will the attorney's knees.. be held next week.. Kroman was taken to a Biş-Haggerty said the samme marck hospital, where a doc security measures in effect at tor said Kroman apparently Shaw's preliminary hearing had suffered an epileptic sel-earlier this month would be used zure. at the arraignment. Reporters needed special credentials to cover the hearing and cameras were barred. (Meanwhile, Gordon Novel issued a telephone challenge to Garrison today to prove by lie delector that the probe is not a fraud, United Press Internation al reported. (Novel, who left New Orleans shortly before the grand jury was to subpoena him last week, would not say where he was calling from. Novel reportedly took a lie detector test in Mc-Lean, Va., over the weekend, to back up his