14-00000

104-10209-10018

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: 201-289249
INCLUSIVE DATES:
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:
ROOM:
DELETIONS, IF ANY:
VOL. II
DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED
REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)
Betsy Wolf
SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
Betsy Wolf

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

FBI Doc.

29 Sept. 1962 (Wash.)

RE: Semen Spiridon Pohorilyj
DBA-23746

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000
SECRET

TO: Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Attention: Mr. S.J. Papich

FROM: Deputy Director (Plans)

SUBJECT: Semen Spiridon POHORILYJ, also known as Semen PCHORILIW
Internal Security - Russia

1. Reference is made to your letter dated 12 July 1958,
entitled as above, to our C/CI-3/772,735, dated 25 September 1962,
and to your file number 105-93295.

2. Information from our representative in Paris indicates that
one Jozef Kozak, born 10 May 1901, Szrdoriben, USSR, possibly a
Soviet citizen, living at La Seine, France, and a Russian refugee, was
listed by the French Ministry of Interior as potentially dangerous
during the visit of Nikita Khrushchev to France from 15-30 March 1960.
Approximately two thousand other individuals were also listed.

3. An official French liaison service reported on 9 November
1962, that Jozef Kozak (sic) had not attracted their attention. Our
representative advised that this is tantamount to a "no trace" reply.

C/CI-3/773,830

SR/CI/RED/L.Lyon
4 Dec 1962

Distribution:
Orig and 1 - Addressee
1 - C/CI
1 - CI/Liaison
1 - CI/R&A
1 - SR/CI/P/al
1 - SR/CI/RED (201-289249)
2 - SR/SI/R&D
1 - CI/OG/SS
1 - Comeback
1 - SR/SI/2

Based on 2272-65156, 20 Nov 1958

SECRET

CS COPY

201-289249

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000

FBI doc.

29 Nov. 1962 (Philadelphia)

RE: Semen Spiridon Pohorilyj
Bufile: 105-93295
DBA 28575

FBI doc.

20 November 1962

RE: Semen Spiridon Pohorilyj
DBA 28182

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

DISPATCH

TO: Chief, SR
INFO: Chief, WE
Chief, EE
Chief of Station, Vienna

FROM: Chief of Station, Paris

SUBJECT: REDWOOD/LCIMPROVE
Jozef KOZAK

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
ACTION: None; for information only.
REFERENCES:
A. OFPW-34223, 25 September 1962
B. OFPA-67615, 16 October 1962 (not sent Vienna.)

In their Memorandum No. D-5054 dated 9 November 1962, UNBOUND informed
us that Subject had not attracted UNBOUND's attention. This is tantamount
to a "no trace" reply.

Robert G. Lamprell

Distribution:
2 - SR
2 - WE
2 - EE
2 - Vienna

CS COPY

201-289249

DATE TYPED: 16 Nov 62
DATE DISPATCHED: 20 Nov 1962
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: OFPA-63186

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER: 201-289249

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

DISPATCH

TO: Chief, SR
INFO: Chief, WE
Chief, EE

FROM: Chief of Station, Paris

SUBJECT: REDWOOD/LCIMPROVE
Josef KOZAK

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
ACTION: None; FYI only.
REFERENCE: (OFPW-34223 of 25 September 1962)

1. According to Paris Station files:

Joseph KOSAK AKA KOZAR
DOB: 10 May 1901, Szrdoriben, USSR
Possibly a Soviet citizen
ADDRESS: La Seine, France
Russian Refugee

was listed by French Ministry of Interior as potentially dangerous during
the visit of Nikita Khrushchev to France, 15-30 March 1960. Approximately
two thousand other individuals were also listed (SOURCE: OFP-8178 of 27 April
1960, page 35).

2. Since Paris Station has terminated AEDOGMA/1, it will not be possible
to obtain further information on Subject from him.

3. We are querying UNBOUND for information on Subject.

Robert G. Lamprell

Distribution:
2 - SR
2 - WE
2 - EE

CS COPY

INDEX

201-289249

DATE TYPED: 10 Oct 62
DATE DISPATCHED: 19 Nov 1962
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: OFPA-67615
HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER: 201-289249

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000
SECRET

DISPATCH

TO: Chief of Station, Paris, COS, Vienna
INFO: Chief, via Chief, WE and Chief, EE

SUBJECT: REDWOOD/LCIMPROVE
Semen Spiridon PCHORILYJ aka Semen PCHORILIW (201-289249) and Jozef KOZAK
aka Osyp KOZAK

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
Action Required: See below

1. Attached for your information is an FBI report on an interview
with Andrij DIDKOWSKYJ, contact of Semen POHORILYJ and correspondent
of Antin NYKYPORUK.

2. The FBI has requested any information available in our files
or through KUBARK sources concerning KOZAK's current activities and
contacts with the Soviets. The information on KOZAK in the last para-
graph on page 3 and the top of page 4 of the attachment, is the latest
information we have on KOZAK. This same information was received from
Paris in OFPA-55817 of 7 December 1960 and gave KOZAK's address as 26
rue Caston Jaillon, Vesines Chalette, Loiret.

3. To Paris: We would appreciate any information available on
KOZAK's current activities and contacts. You may query liaison.

4. To Vienna: The interview with DIDKOWSKYJ contains a statement
that KOZAK left the camp in Salzburg for France with NYKYPORUK in 1948
or 1949. Other information indicates that KOZAK came to France in 1946
from Munich. We would appreciate your checking Station and liaison
files for any information on KOZAK, including biographic data and the
date of his departure for France (or Munich). Please send a copy of
your reply to Paris.

Doris M. Killgo

Distribution:
Orig. & 2 - Paris w/a
2 - Vienna w/a

SR/CI/RED

Paul K. Stockwood

201-289249

DATE TYPED: 10 Sept. 1962
DATE DISPATCHED: 23 SEP 1962
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: OFPA-34223
HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER: 201-289249

ORIGINATING OFFICER: Lyon
TYPIST: tb
COORDINATING OFFICER'S NAME: J. Evans
EXT: 6991

--- Page 8 ---

14-00000
SECRET

TO: Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Attention: Mr. S.J. Papich

FROM: Deputy Director (Plans)

SUBJECT: Semen Spiridon POHORILYJ, also known as
Internal Security - Russia

25 SEP 1962

1. Reference is made to your letter dated 12 July 1958, entitled
as above, and to your file number 105-93295.

2. The files of this Agency contain no additional information on
Jozef Kozak, also known as Osyp Kozak. We are querying our sources
abroad for any information on Kozak's current activities
and contacts with the Soviets. You will be advised of the results of
our inquiries.

C/CI-3/772,123

SR/CI/RED/L.Lyon
13 September 1962

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - Addressee
1 - C/CI
1 - CI/Liaison
1 - CI/R&A
1 - SR/CI/P/al
1 - SR/CI/RED (201-289249)
1 - SR/SI/R&D
1 - CI/OG/SS
1 - Comeback

201-289249

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000

FBI doc.

24 Aug. 1962 (Philadelphia)

RE: Semen Spiridon Pohorilyj
Bufile: 105-93295
DBA 20582

--- Page 10 ---

14-00000

(WHEN FILLED IN)

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS
1. Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back
flap and forward to RID.
2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it
records significant action taken or
comments requiring preservation.

FROM: RID/V
TO: ACTION BRANCH

If file no. and title shown are not
proper, insert proper file no. below
and forward document to RID/AN.

PROPER FILE NO.

TO ALL ADDRESSEES
FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

The report provides
bio data on Kriwenko
& Burchart. The investigation
indicates there is no
sort of contact between
these persons and
Pohorilyj.

See DBA 23746,
29 Sept. 1962 for
trace request.

FILE TITLE
FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE) 201-289249
DOCUMENT DATE 3 Aug 1962
DOCUMENT NUMBER EAVA-30210

SECRET

--- Page 11 ---

14-00000
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

DISPATCH

TO: Chief of Station, Paris
Chief, SR; Chief, EE; Chief, WE

FROM: Chief of Station, Austria

SUBJECT: REDWOOD/LCIMPROVE/ALDONA/T
Semen POHORILYJ

EAVA-30210
HEADQUARTERS FILE NO. 201-289249.
20-6-106/3
DATE: 3 August 1962

RE: (CHECK "X" ONE)
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED
ACTION: For your information.
QUAERIED HQ DESK ONLY

REFERENCE(S)
A. ECIN-10664, 23 May 1961
B. EASA-5566, 24 November 1961

In accordance with a recent request from ODERVY, we
queried our liaison in regard to Subject and his contacts in
Austria. A copy of their reply, which has been passed directly
to ODERVY in Bern, is attached for your information.

Christine R. Kerbs

ATTACHMENT: b/w
Liaison Reply dated 24 July 1962 (in German)

Distribution:
2 - COS, Paris w/Att.
2 - Chief, EE w/o Att.
1 - Chief, SR w/Att.
1 - Chief, WE w/o Att.

CS COPY

USE PREVIOUS EDITION:
REPLACES FORMS
51-28, 51-28A AND 51-29
WHICH ARE OBSOLETE.

--- Page 12 ---

14-00000

Betr. POHORILYJ Semen Spiridon,
BURCHART Veronika,
KRIVENKO Gregor

AT” “IMENT TO-EAVA-30210

Dr. Gregor KRIVENKO (Arzt, 3.10.1900 in Haw, UABUR geb.,
seit 1955 durch Einbürgerung Österr. St.p. Urolzmünster,
Oberösterreich, wh.) war seinerseit in der Ukraine als Arzt
tätig und kam im Jahre 1943 mit seiner Gattin Maria geb.
Kurotschina und seinen beiden Kindern als Flüchtling nach
Österreich. Von 1943 bis 1945 war er als Arzt in Kranken-
haus Ried i. I., später im Allgemeinen Krankenhaus in Linz
und dann bis 1952 als Flüchtlingsarzt im ehemaligen Flücht-
lingslager Ried i. I. angestellt. Seit 1952 geht er keiner
geregelten Arbeit mehr nach. Als Befürsorgter übt er noch
fallweise stillschweigend geduldet die Heilpraxis aus. Im
übrigen betätigt er sich als Organist und Chordirigent in
der griechisch-orthod. Kirche in Salzburg. Seine Gattin, die
seinerseit in der Ukraine angeblich Sängerin war, ist gleich-
falls musikalisch tätig. Der Sohn Dr. KRIVENKO studiert
Sprachen, die Tochter ist kränklich und steht in keinem
Arbeitsverhältnis. Ein Bruder Dr. KRIVENKOS ist angeblich
noch in der UdSSR als Arzt angestellt.

Dr. KRIVENKO lebt mit seiner Familie in sehr bescheidenen
Verhältnissen, ist sehr religiös eingestellt und als Anti-
kommunist bekannt. Die ganze Familie genießt einen guten Ruf.

Veronika (Vera) BURCHART geb. Chermilewski (17.2.1901
in BAR/Ukraine geb., seit 1957 durch Einbürgerung Österr.StA.,
Untereitzing 32, Bez. Ried i.I./Oberösterr., wh.) kam mit
ihrem Gatten Wilhelm BURCHART (26.4.1887 in Jedenier/Ukr. geb.)

--- Page 13 ---

14-00000

gleichfalls im Jahre 1943 als Flüchtling von der Ukraine
nach Österreich. Wilhelm BURCHART war in der Ukraine
Fabrikdirektor. 1961 verstarb er in Ried i.I. Veronika
BURCHART erhält eine Rente. Sie tritt in keiner Weise nach-
teilig in Erscheinung.

Die bisherigen Erhebungen erbrachten keine Anhalts-
punkte dafür, daß die Vorgenannten Verbindung zu dem in
Philadelphia lebenden Semen Spiridon POHORILYJ haben.

Sollten die weiteren Erhebungen in dieser Hinsicht Positives
erbringen, wird der dortigen Stelle davon Mitteilung gemacht
werden.

24.7.1962

--- Page 14 ---

14-00000

FBI doc.

12 July 1962 (Wash.)

RE: Semen Spiridon Pohorilyj, aka
Bufile: 105-93295 (E)
DBA 13988

--- Page 15 ---

14-00000
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

DISPATCH

TO: Chief of Station, Paris
FROM: Chief SR, via Chief WE

SUBJECT: REDWOOD/LCIMPROVE
Semen Spiridon POHORILYJ

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
ACTION: None, FYI

Attached for your information is a copy of an ODERVY report
dated 20 April 1962, on an interview with Subject on 13 April 1962.

Doris M. Killgo

Mortimer F. Bingham

DATE TYPED: 16 May 1962
DATE DISPATCHED: 25 MAY 1962
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: OFPW-33472
HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER: 201-289249

OFFICE: SR/CI/RED
INITIAL: Lyon

--- Page 16 ---

14-00000
SECRET

TO: Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Attention: Mr. S. J. Papich

FROM: Deputy Director (Plans)

SUBJECT: Semen Spiridon PCHORILYJ also known as Semen PCHORILIW
Internal Security - Russia

1. Reference is made to your memorandum of 5 February 1962
regarding the Subject and to your file number 105-93295 (E).

2. An interview of Subject by your Bureau, under the condi-
tions outlined in the reference, would not adversely affect any of
this Agency's sources or operations. We would appreciate any in-
formation you may obtain from Subject on his contacts and associates
abroad.

C/CI-3/769,591

SR/CI/RED/L.Lyon:aoh
23 February 1962

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee
1 - C/CI
1 - CI/Liaison
1 - CI/R&A
1 - SR/CI/P/al
1 - SR/CI/RED
1 - Comeback

RI/Files (201-289249)

Reference: DBA-396, 5 February 1962

SECRET

CS COPY

201-289249

--- Page 17 ---

14-00000

FBI doc.

20 April 1962 (Philadelphia)

RE: Semen Spiridon Pohorilyj
Bufile: 105-93295
DBA 7408

FBI doc.

5 Feb. 1962 (Wash.)

RE: Semen Spiridon Pohorilyj, aka
Bufile: 105-93295 (E)

--- Page 18 ---

14-00000
SECRET

TO: Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Attention: Mr. S. J. Papich

FROM: Deputy Director (Plans)

SUBJECT: Semen Spiridon POHORILYJ also known as Semen PCHORILIW
and Andrij DIDKOWSKYJ also known as DIALWAWSKY (fm)
Internal Security - Russia

1. Reference is made to previous correspondence from this of-
fice regarding the Subjects and to your file number 105-93295.

2. The files of this Agency contain no identifiable informa-
tion on Andrij DIDKOWSKYJ of 731 North Seventh Street, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania. We have not checked our sources abroad and will not
do so unless this action is specifically requested by you.

3. A sensitive Austrian source provided the following informa-
tion on Semen Spiridon PCHORILYJ on 31 October 1961:

"Semen POHORILYJ - born 2 February 1910 in Czarkassy/
Kiev, married, teacher, Ukrainian citizen, resided at
the refugee camp in Siezenheim, Salzburg, from 13 July
1950 to 23 August 1950. Prior to 13 July 1950 he lived
at the Hellbrunn refugee camp in Salzburg. According
to police records Subject left Salzburg for the United
States on 23 August 1950."

4. Additional information from the same sensitive source, in
the form of a photographic copy of the official police registration
card and a negative of an identification photograph of Subject, both
dated 7 November 1947, reveals that

"Semen POHORILYJ - born 2 February 1910 in Przemysl,
is a Polish citizen, married, teacher, 178 cm tall, grey
eyes, blond hair, oval face, no prominent or identifying
features."

--- Page 19 ---

14-00000
SECRET

A copy of the photograph is attached for your information. The date
on the registration card presumably indicates the date on which Sub-
ject was first officially registered by the Salzburg police.

C/CI-3/769,019

Attachment - As stated

SR/CI/RED/L.Lyon:afo
15 January 1962

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee, w/att.
1 - C/CI, w/o att.
1 - CI/Liaison, w/o att.
1 - CI/R&A, w/o att.
1 - SR/CI/P/al, w/o att.
1 - SR/CI/RED, w/o att.
1 - EE/A, w/o att.
1 - Comeback, v/o att.

RI/Files, w/o att. (201-289249)

Reference: DBF-96946, 21 December 1961
Based on EASA-05566, 24 November 1961

--- Page 20 ---

14-00000
SECRET

RESPONSE TO GREEN LIST
REQUEST NO 100092
5 Jan 62

1. NAME IN ROMAN LETTERS AND IN NORMAL ORDER
DIDKOWSKYJ, Andrij

2. ALIASES, VARIANT SPELLINGS, ETC. NUMBERS, ETC.
DIALWAWSKY

3. BIRTH DATE: 30 Nov 1890
4. BIRTH PLACE: Didkowitsche, Ukraine
5. CITIZENSHIP: U.S. in 1958.
6. PRESENT ACTIVITY AND LOCATION: Retired - lives at 631 North 7th St. Philadelphia, Pa

7. OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTIES, EDUCATION: Laborer
8. MILITARY SERVICE:
SERVICE ARM COUNTRY SPECIALTY

9. PAST OCCUPATIONS:
ACTIVITY LOCATION DATES
1904 to 1920 resided in Russia.
1920 to 1943 in Poland
1943 to 1951 Salzburg, Austria
1951 to Sept. 1958 - Philadelphia

10. DESCRIPTION:
(HEIGHT): 6'1" (WEIGHT): 170 (EYES): Brown (HAIR): Black-grey white (FACE): (OTHER):

11. SPOUSE (IF WIFE, GIVE MAIDEN NAME):
Wira Sergel, born 1897 in the Ukraine, Resides at Kostopol, Ukraine.

12. OTHER MEMBERS OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY, AND ASSOCIATES:

13. OTHER SIGNIFICANT DATA (POLITICS, RELIGION, ETC):

--- Page 21 ---

14-00000
SECRET

FI/D
11 January 1962

A. SEE DOSSIER ON SUBJECT IN FI/D BIOGRAPHIC FILES.

B. A MEMORANDUM IS ATTACHED HERETO.

C. WITH THE LIMITED IDENTIFICATION PROVIDED IN THE REQUEST, FI/D IS UNABLE TO
DETERMINE WHETHER THERE IS INFORMATION ABOUT THE SUBJECT OR NOT.

D. FI/D HAS NO INFORMATION ON SUBJECT. IF A CONTINUING SEARCH WAS
REQUESTED IN SECTION 14, INFORMATION ABOUT THE SUBJECT WILL BE REPORTED TO
YOU AS IT BECOMES AVAILABLE.

E. THE SUBJECT OF THIS REQUEST IS APPARENTLY THE SUBJECT OF THE FOLLOWING:

NOTE TO THE ORIGINATING OFFICE
* IF THE SUBJECT IS NO LONGER IMPORTANT TO YOUR OFFICE, THIS SHEET, WITH THE FOLLOWING CANCELLATION
NOTICE COMPLETED, SHOULD BE SENT TO FI/D.

REVIEW YOUR FILE OF THESE SHEETS FREQUENTLY, AND SEND TO FI/D THE SHEETS FOR PERSONS THAT ARE NO
LONGER OF SUFFICIENT INTEREST TO DEMAND A CONTINUING NAME CHECK. PLEASE DO NOT TIE UP FI/D'S
FACILITIES WITH CONTINUING SEARCHES FOR INFORMATION THAT IS NOT REQUIRED.

CANCEL THE STOP CARD FOR THIS REQUEST
