14-00000

104-10172-10112
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/SUBFILE/VOLUME: HALPERIN, MAURICE HYMAN.
201-128561
(VOL. VII)

INCLUSIVE DATES: 1 JAN 62-76
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:
ROOM:
DELETIONS, IF ANY: THIRD AGENCY DOCUMENTS

| DOCUMENTS | DATE | DATE | REVIEWED BY | SIGNATURE OF |
| :----------------- | :---------- | :---------- | :--------------------- | :--------------------- |
| RECEIVED | RETURNED | (PRINT NAME) | REVIEWING OFFICIAL |
| 19 MAY | 23 MAY | JOHANNA SOUTH | |

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.

HALPERIN, Maurice Hyman
201-128561

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000
Vol. VII
THIRD AGENCY DOCUMENTS - 201-128561 (HALPERIN)

FBI (Boston) 2/6/62; File 100-25501 & 65-14303
FBI (Boston) 1/25/63; Files as above
FBI (Washington) 2/26/63; re HALPERIN
FBI (Washington) 2/26/63
FBI (Boston) 1/13/64; File #BS 100-25501 & 65-14303
FBI (Washington) 1/18/65
FBI (Boston) 3/25/66; File #100-31726 & 100-424134
re Edith Evelyn HALPERIN
FBI (Washington) 6/14/66; File # (S) 65-14303
FBI (Boston) 12/15/66
FBI (Washington) 10/10/67
FBI (Washington) 4/30/68
FBI (Boston) 7/14/72 re Maurice
FBI (Boston) 7/14/72 re Edith

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

Subject: Maurice Hyman HALPERIN
DOB: 3 Mar 1906
POB: Boston, Massachusetts
Wife: Edith Frisch HALPERIN #25367
GCY Case
LCHAIYOUL

Subject is a U.S. citizen and a former OSS employee.
Subject has been closely associated with Martha Dodd and
Alfred K. Stern in Mexico, and he handled some of the
Sterns' business affairs. As of April 1959, subject believed
to be in Moscow.

EIS NOT NO.
SX31 8/02/3 dossier (Also asa LCHAYFOAL CAES #1163.)
1-3/1 Subject's return itinerary and
on a Christmas card (1962), Apt C-11-12, no 1,
Dremer, Valeno, Cuba; first time that subject has given
this address on a greeting card.

201-128561

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

ACT
TPS
OMF

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR

STAFF DATE TIME GROUP
132130Z

CITE
DIRECTOR 883288

CONF: 2/43; INFO: FILE DDOS PD0/00 OGC C/SS

TO: LONDON INFO OTTAWA

EYES ONLY

RYBAT PLMHBLANKET

REF: LONDON 74209 (IN 971297) (RELAYED OTTAWA)

1. PER REFERENCE REQUEST FOR TRACES ON MAURICE HYMAN
HALPERIN (201-128561), WE ARE FORWARDING VIA TM FIVE 3960
NEWSPAPER CLIPPINGS AND A RECENT ARTICLE FROM THE SIMON FRASER UNI-
VERSITY, BRITISH COLUMBIA, ALUMNI MAGAZINE FOR PASSAGE TO JAGUAR.
THIS INFORMATION IS PROVIDED PURSUANT TO OUR SERVICE TO SERVICE
ARRANGEMENT FOR THE EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION ON PERSONS OF COUNTER-
INTELLIGENCE INTEREST.

2. MAURICE HALPERIN HAS TWO CHILDREN: DAVID CARLOS BORN 5 MAY
1937 IN OKLAHOMA CITY AND JUDITH YVONNE BORN 1 SEPT 1931 IN BOSTON.
(SOURCE: DBD-43144, 25 MAR 1966) LNERGO APPROVES PASSING TO
JAGUAR. AGENCY RECORDS ON MORTON HALPERIN DO NOT REFLECT ANY RELA-
TIONSHIP WITH MAURICE HALPERIN. HALPERIN IS A COMMON NAME.

3. PUBLICATIONS SINCE 1957:
"GROWTH AND CRISIS IN THE LATIN
AMERICAN ECONOMY: 1961, "CONFERENCIAS SOBRE GEOGRAFIA ECONOMICA”
1964, "HACIA UN NUEVO SISTEMA DE PLANIFICACION Y DIRECCION

DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:
P&L DISSEM
RYBAT
RECORD COPY
RELEASING OFFICES
COORDATING OFFICERS
AUTHENTICATION OFFICE

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

ACT
OMF

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR

STAFF DIRECTOR
DATE TIME GROUP CITE
132130Z 883288

CONF: INFO: FILE
2/43; DDOS PD0/00 OGC C/SS

TO
PER

ECONOMICAS EN LA UNION SOVIETICA" 1964, AND "THE RISE AND DECLINE OF
FIDEL CASTRO - AN ESSAY IN CONTEMPORARY HISTORY", UNIVERSITY OF
CALIFORNIA PRESS.

4. THE FOLLOWING IS FROM FHABOVE AND NEEDS THEIR CONCURRENCE TO
PASS TO JAGUAR. MAURICE HALPERIN IS CURRENTLY TEACHING AT SIMON
FRASER UNIVERSITY IN BRITISH COLUMBIA AND EXPECTS THAT THE UNIVERSITY
WILL EXTEND HIS TEACHING APPOINTMENT TO AUGUST 1977. HALPERIN TOLD
FHABOVE THAT HE AND HIS WIFE TOURED ISRAEL, ITALY, GREECE, SPAIN, AND
ENGLAND IN THE SUMMER OF 1975. HE IS CURRENTLY WORKING ON THE SECOND
VOLUME OF HIS BOOK ON CUBA. HE LEFT THE IMPRESSION WITH FHABOVE THAT
WHEN IT IS FINISHED HE WILL BEGIN WORK ON HIS AUTOBIOGRAPHY. {SOURCE:
OCOA-19102, 22 JAN 76}

5. FOR OTTAWA: JAGUAR HAS REQUESTED TRACES ON MAURICE HALPERIN.
PLS NOTIFY LONDON IF FHABOVE APPROVES PASSING INFO FROM PARA FOUR
ABOVE TO JAGUAR.

6. FILE: 73-6-4613. E2 IMPDET.

DATE: 12 JUL
ORIG: PATSY HOL
UNIT: CI/OG
EXT: 1117

DDO/AGC A. E. GOLDIN (IN DRAFT)
EUR/BC
E/19/EC
C/EN

RELEASING
CLASSIFICATION
COORDATING OFFICERS
R.Well
AC/CI/OG
AUTHENTICATING OFFces

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED E2 IMPDET

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000

Ex-OSS Official Works
For Reds in Moscow

By VICTOR LASKY
North American Newspaper Alliance

A former Boston University
professor, who once was a high
official in the OSS, has turned
up in Moscow working for the
Soviet government.

The professor, Dr. Maurice
H. Halperin, fled this country
seven years ago after an in-
quiry into his Communist back-
ground.

According to the State De-
partment, he probably is ad-
vising Soviet officials on Latin
American affairs, an area in
which he is expert.

Prof. Halperin was suspended
by Boston University in 1953
after he refused, on constitu-
tional grounds, to tell a Senate
subcommittee whether he had
ever been a Communist Party
member.

MAURICE H. HALPERIN
WASH DC STAR

In November, 1951 Dr. Hal-
perin and his wife, without
notifying the university, left
their home in the middle of the
night never to return. Turning
up in Mexico, they became
members of the American Com-
munist group in Mexico.

Like most ACGM members,
the Halperins did well. They
invested in an ice cream com-
pany, dabbled in real estate,
and changed jobs. Dr. Halperin
was employed by the Mexican
government as a financial con-
sultant and his wife taught in
the American School Founda-
tion.

They also became friendly
with Alfred K. Stern and his
wife, the former Martha Dodd,
daughter of a former United
States Ambassador to Germany.

The fact the Sterns had been
implicated in Soviet espionage
came out with the arrest in
New York of Jack Soble, a So-
viet agent. To avoid being ex-
tradited to the United States
to testify before a special grand
jury on their associations with
Soble and "the double agent
Boris Morros," the Sterns fled
to Czechoslovakia in July, 1957.

Dr. Halperin, described as
being "intimately involved in
their plans for escape," had
obtained airline reservations
for the Sterns under other
names. As a result, the Mexi-
can government was consider-
ing his case for deportation.

On October 13, 1958, the Hal-
perins left Mexico having ob-
tained plane reservations in
the names of other persons.

In Russia Since 1958

The State Department mem-
orandum concludes:

"We received information
shortly after Halperin's de-
parture from Mexico that he
was employed in Moscow by
the USSR. This was confirmed
on July 15, 1960, when the
Halperins appeared at the
American Embassy in Moscow
and presented their United
States passports for renewal.

"Halperin stated that he
had been in the USSR since
December, 1958, and that he is
employed by the Soviet Acad-
emy of Sciences where he is
doing research relating to
underdeveloped countries.

"It will be recalled that Hal-
perin is something of an au-
thority on Latin American
affairs. Our information in-
dicates that this probably is
the field in which he is work-
ing at the present time."

"The Soviet Academy of
Sciences is directly subordinate
to the Council of Ministers."

According to the State De-
partment, he had previously
been involved in Soviet espio-
nage in wartime Washington.
He had been named by Eliza-
beth Terri Bentley, admitted
former spy courier, as one of
her sources of supply among
Government officials.

Intrigue in Mexico

Fired in Oklahoma

From 1931 to 1941, Dr. Hal-
perin—a Harvard University
graduate—had been a professor
at the University of Oklahoma.
According to the record, it was
in this period that he directed
Communist activities in Okla-
homa and, on repeated visits
to Mexico, conferred with Mex-
ican Red leaders. On one visit
to Cuba in 1933, he and other
leftwingers had been arrested
by Cuban authorities and ex-
pelled from the country.

In 1941, much of this was
disclosed in an investigation
conducted by an Oklahoma
State legislative committee.
The committee, investigating
subversive activities in Okla-
homa, produced information
that in 1940, Dr. Halperin had
cashed a check for $436 drawn
on the Bank of Foreign Trade
in Moscow. As a result, Dr.
Halperin was dismissed from
the University of Oklahoma.

Despite this record, Dr. Hal-
perin managed to enter Gov-

In 1949, he became head of
the Latin American regional
students section at Boston Uni-
versity's College of Liberal
Arts.

A year later, he was first
publicly identified as a member
of a Soviet spy ring. This came
about when Vice President
Nixon, then a California Con-
gressman, made known a top
secret memorandum on espion-
age transmitted by FBI
Director J. Edgar Hoover to
the White House on Novem-
ber 8, 1945.

In March, 1953, in Boston's
Federal Building, Dr. Halperin
repeatedly invoked the Fifth
Amendment when—in a hear-
ing conducted by the Senate
Internal Security Subcommit-
tee—he refused to reply to

Linked to Spy Ring

See HALPERIN, Page A-6

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000

Halperin, U. S. Ex-Aide,
Is Now a Soviet Official

Associated Press

The State Department says
that Maurice H. Halperin, a
former United States Govern-
ment official linked by Senate
investigators to Soviet espion-
age activities, apparently is
serving now as a Latin-Amer-
ican adviser to the Russians.

Halperin was head of the
Latin-American Division of
the Office of Strategic Serv-
ices during the latter part of
World War II and later an as-
sociate professor at Boston
University. Before the war, he
had been on the faculty of
the University of Oklahoma.
In 1934 he was dismissed by
Boston University after Sen-
ate investigators received tes-
timony linking him to a Soviet
spy ring and he refused to
answer a question as to
whether he was a Communist.

MAURICE H. HALPERIN
believed Soviet employe

American Embassy in Mexico
City, where he had gone after
being dismissed by Boston
University, and used it to
leave Mexico on Oct. 13, 1958.

The State Department said
that shortly after Halperin
and his wife departed from
Mexico it received informa-
tion that he was employed in
Moscow by the Soviet Union.

This was confirmed on July
15, 1960, when the Halperins
appeared at the American
Embassy in Moscow and pre-
sented their U. S. passports
for renewal," the Depart-
ment's report said, adding:

"Halperin stated that he
had been in the U.S.S.R. since
December, 1958, and that he is
employed by the U.S.S.R.
Academy of Sciences where
he is doing research in the
foreign field, specially, relat-
ing to undeveloped countries."

The Department recalled
that Halperin was something
of an authority on Latin-
American affairs and said,
"Our information indicates
that this probably is the field
in which he is working at the
present time."

The Department recalled
about persons to whom it has
been compelled to issue pass-
ports under a 1953 decision of
the Supreme Court.

The Court held that the De-
partment lacks authority to
deny passports to Communists
or to other persons because of
their political beliefs.

After the ruling, Halperin
applied for a passport at the

--- Page 8 ---

14-00000

FORMER U.S. AIDE
AT WORK IN SOVIET

Ex-Boston U. Professor Was
in O.S.S. in World War II

By JACK RAYMOND
Special to The New York Times

WASHINGTON, Aug. 31—
The State Department has
disclosed that a former United
States Intelligence official
is in Moscow working for the So-
viet Government.

He is Dr. Maurice Halperin,
a former Boston University
professor who was head of the
Latin American Division of the
Office of Strategic Services
during World War II.

Dr. Halperin was dismissed
from Boston University in 1934
after he refused to say whether
he was a Communist. He has
been linked in testimony before
Senate Investigators to So-
viet spy ring.

The State Department's dis-
closure was contained in a
memorandum in support of a
proposed law to deny passports
to persons supporting interna-
tional communism.

The Supreme Court ruled in
1958 that passports could not
be denied to Communists or
others because of their political
beliefs.

Dr. Halperin and his wife
Edith were then in Mexico
City, the State Department
noted. They had been linked
to the escape behind the Iron
Curtain of Alfred and
Martha Dodd Stern, who were
under Federal indictment for
espionage.

After the Supreme Court rul-
ing, the Halperins applied to
the United States Embassy in

Continued on Page 7, Column 1

FORMER U. S. AIDE
AT WORK IN SOVIET

Continued From Page 1, Col. 1

Mexico City for passports and
left Mexico Oct. 13, 1958. At
the time, the State Department
noted, they were about to be
deported from Mexico for Com-
munist activities.

Reports that Dr. Halperin
was working for the Soviet
Government in Moscow were
confirmed last July 15, the
State Department memorandum
went on, when he and his wife
appeared at the embassy to re-
new their passports.

Embassy officials reported
that they had been told by Dr.
Halperin that he and his wife
had been in the Soviet Union
since December, 1958, and that
he was working for the Soviet
Academy of Sciences doing
research in the foreign field
especially relating to under-
developed countries."

The State Department, re-
calling that Dr. Halperin was
an authority on Latin-American
affairs, added that "our infor-
mation indicates that this prob-
ably is the field in which he is
working at the present time."

State Department officials
have repeatedly called attention
to the Soviet trade and cultural
offensive in Latin America.

Referring to Dr. Halperin's
employment by the Soviet
Academy, the State Depart-
ment observed that it was di-
rectly subordinate to the Soviet
Council of Ministers.

Requested by Keating

The memorandum was pre-
pared at the request of Senator
Kenneth B. Keating, Republican
of New York. He and Senator
Thomas J. Dodd, Democrat of
Connecticut, are co-sponsors of
a bill that seeks to restore some
of the State Department's
authority to deny passports.

Senator Keating, who entered
the memorandum in The Con-
gressional Record of Aug. 16
expressed regret at the time
that his bill was not likely to
be passed in this session of
Congress. President Eisenhow-
er and State Department officials
have backed the purpose of
the measure.

Meanwhile, Representative
Francis E. Walter, Democrat of
Pennsylvania and chairman
of the Committee on Un-Ameri-
can Activity, said he had or-
dered a month-long preliminary
investigation into the case of
two missing employes of the
National Security Agency.

The two employes of the top
secret coding agency, Vernon
F. Mitchell and William H.
Martin, are alleged to have
taken valuable secrets to the
Soviet Union.

Representative Walter said
that he understood that one of
the missing men had made
enquiries in their agency about
the U-2 reconnaissance plane
flight over the Soviet Union
before it took place on May 1.

Mr. Walter said that he was
convinced that the Soviet had
had advance knowledge of the
flight. Francis Gary Powers,
the U-2 pilot, was downed in
the Soviet Union and subse-
quently sentenced to ten years'
detention.

Refused to Appear

BOSTON, Aug. 31—Dr. Hal-
perin was officially dismissed
from the faculty of Boston
University on Jan. 6, 1954. He
had refused a summons to ap-
pear before a university com-
mittee of review to discuss his
case.

Dr. Harold C. Case, president
of the university, telephoned
Dr. Halperin in Mexico City
offering to pay his expenses
to Boston and return. But the
professor declined. He had
been chairman of the univer-
sity's Latin-American regional
studies.

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000

Halperin Denies Giving
Reds Advice on Latins

STAR
5 Sept 60

MOSCOW, Sept. 3 (AP)—
Maurice H. Halperin, a former
United States Government offi-
cial who now lives in Moscow,
yesterday accused the State De-
partment of issuing a "deliber-
ate and malicious distortion"
about his status here.

In a typewritten statement
Mr. Halperin said:

"There is nothing mysterious
or dubious about my being in
Moscow... Since my arrival I
have filed two United States
income tax returns listing my
salary and employer. I am not
working for the Soviet govern-
ment any more than Van Cli-
burn, an American pianist,
when he performs in a govern-
ment-owned concert hall.

"I am a visiting professor at
the USSR Academy of Sciences
and not the first American to
be associated with it, as some
of our leading scientists can
testify. My appointment and
my Soviet visa expires in July,
1961."

Last week Senator Keating,
Republican of New York, read
into the Congressional Record
a State Department document
which said Mr. Halperin is now
in Moscow and is "working for
the Soviet government."

Heads OSS Unit

The document said there
were indications Mr. Halperin
was giving the Soviet govern-
ment advice on Latin-American
affairs. During World War II
Mr. Halperin was head of the
Latin American division of the
United States Office of Stra-
tegic Services, an intelligence
organization.

After the war, Mr. Halperin
took a job with Boston Uni-
versity as a professor. He lost
this job in 1953 because he re-
fused to tell congressional in-
vestigators whether he ever had
been a member of the Ameri-
can Communist Party.

The bald, mustached 54-
year-old Mr. Halperin was lo-
cated Sunday in a Moscow
apartment house by a news-
man and was asked to com-
ment on the State Depart-
ment's document.

The United States Embassy
here declined to comment on the
State Department and Senator
Keating's statements or on Mr. Halperin's
status. It did say he appeared at the
embassy in July and asked to have his American
passport renewed. The request was
granted, an embassy official said.

Declines to Elaborate

Mr. Halperin appeared punc-
tually at the agreed hour.

The newsman apparently was
cut off while trying to tele-
phone the story.

Mr. Halperin first declined to
admit the newsman into his
apartment, but agreed to meet
him later in the lobby of a
nearby hotel where he prom-
ised to give a written state-
ment, on which he declined to
elaborate.

He said it will be available to the
State Department and anybody
willing to purchase a copy.

The United States Embassy
here declined to comment on the
State Department and Senator
Keating's statements or on Mr. Halperin's
status. It did say he appeared at the
embassy in July and asked to have his American
passport renewed. The request was
granted, an embassy official said.

"It seems to me that the
State Department and Senator
Keating are scraping the bot-
tom of the barrel to come up
with this stale red herring,"
Mr. Halperin said.

"There is nothing mysterious
or dubious about my being in
Moscow... Since my arrival I
have filed two United States
income tax returns listing my
salary and employer. I am not
working for the Soviet govern-
ment any more than Van Cli-
burn, an American pianist,
when he performs in a govern-
ment-owned concert hall.

"I am a visiting professor at
the USSR Academy of Sciences
and not the first American to
be associated with it, as some
of our leading scientists can
testify. My appointment and
my Soviet visa expires in July,
1961.

"For the State Department
to say that I am advising the
Russians on Latin-American
affairs is a deliberate and ma-
licious distortion.

"Specifically, I am making a
study of the Latin-American
economy from 1943 to the crisis
of 1958. When my book is pub-
lished it will be available to the

--- Page 10 ---

14-00000

Halperin Says
Reds Not Employ Him

MOSCOW, Sept. 4 (UPI)—
Maurice H. Halperin today
branded a reported State De-
partment statement that he is
working as an adviser to the
Soviet government on Latin
American affairs as a "delib-
erate and malicious distor-
tion."

In a statement to reporters,
Halperin said he is a professor
associated with the Academy
of Sciences of the USSR, work-
ing on a book on Latin Ameri-
can economics, and he ex-
plained the American authori-
ties know all about it.

(A State Department docu-
ment in Washington last week
said Halperin, a former Bos-
ton University professor and
World War II intelligence spe-
cialist on Latin American af-
fairs, was working for the So-
viet government.

Sen. Kenneth B. Keating
(R-N. Y.) had the document
entered in the Congressional
Record.)

"It seems to me that the
State Department and Senator
Keating are sweeping the bot-
tom of the barrel to come up
with this red herring," Hal-
perin said.

"There is nothing mysteri-
ous or dubious about my being
in Moscow. Since my arrival,
I have filed two U. S. income
tax returns listing my salary
and employer.

"I am not working for the
Soviet government any more
than Van Cliburn when he
performed in a government-
owned concert hall," he con-
tinued.

"I am a visiting professor
in the USSR Academy of
Sciences and not the first
American to be associated
with it. For the State of De-
partment to say that I am an
adviser to the Russians on
Latin American affairs is a
deliberate and malicious dis-
tortion.

"Specifically, I am making
a study of the Latin American
economy from 1943 to the
crisis of 1958."

--- Page 11 ---

14-00000

By Rick Hyda

Fortune, or chance, has played a major role in Simon Fraser
Political Science professor Dr. Maurice Halperin's nearly
seventy years of life.

It was chance that compelled him to seek employment
with the National University of Mexico. It was chance that
earned him a three-year post in Moscow. It was chance
that led him to a teaching stint in Cuba. And it was chance
that brought him to Simon Fraser seven years ago.

In fact, fortune began wielding its capricious influence over
his life even before Dr. Halperin was born.

"I might have been born in Canada," he says. "My father
sailed from Liverpool to the New World at the turn of the cen-
tury, with Montreal as his destination. However, he decided
to move on to Boston."

This was a "rather fortunate circumstance over which I had
no control," since Montreal at the time was still a provincial
city while Boston was "a metropolis, a great centre of culture
and learning and all its splendid facilities were available to
me."

Among those facilities which he made use of were the
Boston Latin School - a secondary school which boasts
such luminaries as Benjamin Franklin and Ralph Waldo Emer-
son among its alumni - and Harvard University.

He completed his post-graduate work in Paris at the Sor-
bonne which, at that time, was the most prestigious university
in the world and "the impact it had on my way of life and
thinking was a permanent one."

While attending the Sorbonne, Dame Fortune stepped in
and "I was appointed to the faculty as a Reader in North
American Civilization. Even though I came from Harvard, the
level of competence and sophistication of the French stu-
dents was much higher and I had to work very hard to keep
up with them."

After completing his doctorate, Dr. Halperin joined the
faculty at the University of Oklahoma and found that mid-
western state to be "like another country. Boston and Paris
were much closely related than were Boston and Oklahoma."

However, chance intervened to rescue him from what
could have been a number of indifferent years in a then small
and remote university on the American Prairies, turning them
into years spent in "an oasis of high culture."

Dr. Halperin explains:

"It was during the Depression and jobs were scarce, so
the university attracted a number of bright teachers and
researchers whose first choice might not have been Okla-
homa.

"And when you have a group of people like that, in addition
to the opportunity of understanding and learning to appreciate
the virtues of mid-America, well it was something that
stayed with me for the rest of my life."

The Second World War interrupted Dr. Halperin's sojourn
at the University of Oklahoma and he joined the Office of

"COMMENT", Dec 75 issue
(alumni magazine of
Simon Fraser University
in British Colombia.)

Maurice Halperin, Simon Fraser's oldest professor, is a
keen musician who has played with the New Westminster
Symphony Orchestra.

Strategic Services, a special research and intelligence
agency attached to the Joint Chiefs of Staff.

"I had a front row seat in the planning of some of the most
interesting operations of the war," he says. "I consider my
experiences there were at least the equivalent of a second
PhD because I was associated with a whole group of social
scientists in different disciplines.

"Through this, I had the realization that we had practical
matters to consider in the social sciences, as well as theo-
retical ones. And I learned the value of co-operative effort,
the value of getting work done on time, and the value of
efficiency in research.

"It helped me to see the relationship between the social
sciences and practical problems. I became more oriented
toward problem solving than I had been before."

--- Page 12 ---

14-00000

Dame Fortune keeps popping up
in life of SFU's oldest professor
and has taken him to Mexico, Cuba,
Moscow - and to 'best place of all'.

After the war, Dr. Halperin worked with the United Nations
for a couple of years and then joined the faculty of Boston
University where he was involved in the establishment of an
interdisciplinary department of Latin American studies.

During this period he visited Brazil twice, lecturing at the
University of Sao Paulo and serving as a consultant to the
state government of Sao Paulo. After his second visit, he was
decorated by the Brazilian government with the Order of the
Southern Cross.

It was then that chance interfered again, this time in a most
malicious way.

"My stay at Boston coincided with the most intense period
of McCarthyism and this raised problems for a great number
of people at the time. In my own case, I was given the choice
of co-operating with the Inquisition or, as it turned out, losing
my job.

"Among other disagreeable aspects of co-operating, it
would have turned me into an informer against people who,
as far as I knew, had committed no crime. I just couldn't think
of facing my students with their knowledge that I was an
informer."

Leaving Boston University, he went to the National Uni-
versity of Mexico City where he remained for six years. While
working there, he did some consulting work for the Mexican
Government, thereby gaining further practical experience
on the problems of underdevelopment in Latin America.

This experience led directly to his next position - a three-
year appointment at the Academy of Sciences in Moscow.

Halperin explains:

"At that time, the period when Kruschev was trying to
loosen up some of the rigid controls of Stalin's dictatorship,
there was a desire at the Academy to have some western
expertise on Latin American developmental problems. In
other words, my Mexican experience was a direct prerequi-
site for the Moscow invitation."

"It's strange how, in retrospect, what seemed to be a
rather difficult choice in 1953 turned out to be very lucky.
You never know. Something happens that can crush you or,
on the contrary, can make you healthier and more robust
than you've ever been before.

"And, when the invitation came from Moscow, I was foot-
loose and free. My status in Mexico was always that of a
visiting professor, so I had no prob- of security - tenure
or pension, for example to tie down when it came. I
had nothing to lose and everything to gain."

Dr. Halperin spent three years at the Academy and found
it to be an extraordinary experience. "I wasn't there as a
tourist; neither was I there as an outside researcher. I was
actually in the machine, with no permanent ties to it. I was
working in the factory, rather than just studying it."

Fate once again intervened in his life, this time in the form
of the celebrated Latin American guerrilla leader, Che
Guevara.

"Late one night, there was a knock on my door and I
opened it and there stood Che with a couple of his Cuban
friends. He had been told about me by mutual friends in
Mexico and they suggested that, in view of the need for
competent educators and social scientists in Cuba, I might
be interested in accepting an invitation to teach at the Uni-
versity of Havana."

As it happened, Dr. Halperin was interested. He spent the
next six years in Cuba, and after leaving, produced a book
on the country - The Rise and Decline of Fidel Castro: An
Essay in Contemporary History. It was published by the Uni-
versity of California Press and a second edition, in paper-
back, has recently appeared. (Incidentally, Dr. Halperin's
published work spans 45 years and "several thousand
pages.")

As with the Moscow appointment, it was the fact that he
was freed of concerns about job security, since he had none,
which allowed him to accept Guevara's offer.

Although Cuba was "a very pleasant country," Dr. Hal-
perin found life there to be somewhat disconcerting since,
"as a highly-paid foreign expert, I lived high off the hog and
didn't share the austerity of the rest of the country.

"And it was troubling, you know, when neighbors would
knock on our door to see if we could spare a thimbleful of
salt or a tablespoon of cooking oil and there we were, sitting
with everything at our disposal."

And a further quirk of fate, naturally, brought him to Simon
Fraser in 1968. He'd met a Canadian while in Havana and one
day, about a year later, he received a phone call from a place
called Burnaby." It was the same Canadian, inviting him to
participate in a seminar on Latin America, with "all expenses
paid."

When he received the invitation, in the spring of 1968, he
had already resigned his position in Havana and was planning
to return to the United