```markdown
14-00000

104-10177-10206

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

201-257804

FILE TITLE/SUBJECT/VOLUME: MEROLA, JOSEPH R.

INCLUSIVE DATES: 1959-1977
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: LEN/ISK
ROOM:
DELETIONS, IF ANY: THIRD AGENCY DOCUMENTS.

DATE RECEIVED
DATE RETURNED
REVIEWED BY
(PRINT NAME)

SIGNATURE OF
REVIEWING OFFICIAL

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW MINUTE
NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.
MATERIAL FILED IN CHRONOLOGICAL ORDER

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

FBI DOCUMENTS:

DATE: 1 OCTOBER 1959
SUBJECT: CARIBBEAN POLITICAL ACTIVITIES - CUBA
CLASSIFICATION: NONE
FILE: NONE GIVEN

DATE: 1 JUNE 1959
SUBJECT: RUBEN OSCAR MIRO GUARDIA
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
FILE: MIAMI 97-261 BUREAU 105-75663

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

AGENCY DOCUMENT CONTAINING FBI INFORMATION
DATE: 16 JUNE 1959
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

FBI REPORTS:

DATE: 11 MARCH 1959
SUBJECT: PANAMANIAN REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES
FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS - PANAMA
FBI FILE #: 109-12-223 (BUREAU)

DATE: 30 SEPTEMBER 1958
SUBJECT: JOSEPH MEROLA; B. LEONARD BIRD;
ROBERT DILLARD; UNKNOWN PILOT
FBI FILE #: 97-230 (MIAMI)

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000

FBI DOCUMENT
DATE: 1 JUNE 1959
SUBJECT: RUBEN OSCAR MIRO GUARDIA
CLASSIFICATION: NONE
FILE: MM 97-261

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000

DEPT OF ARMY DOCUMENT
DATE: 13 MAY 1959
SUBJECT: JOSEPH R. MEROLA (SD 7033-A) (C)
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
FILE: ACSI-CO

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000

FBI DOCUMENTS (SOME NOT COMPLETE)

DATE: 22 APRIL 1959
SUBJECT: PANAMANIAN REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES
FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS - PANAMA
CLASSIFICATION: NONE
FILE: 109-12-223

DATE: 21 APRIL 1959
SUBJECT: PANAMANIAN REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES
FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS - PANAMA
CLASSIFICATION: NONE
FILE: 109-12-223

DATE: 20 APRIL 1959
SUBJECT: PANAMANIAN REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES
FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS - PANAMA
CLASSIFICATION: NONE
FILE: 109-12-223

DATE: 17 APRIL 1959
SUBJECT: PANAMANIAN REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES
FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS - PANAMA
FILE: 109-12-223
CLASSIFICATION: NONE

DATE: 10 APRIL 1959
SUBJECT: PANAMANIAN REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES
FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS - CUBA
CLASSIFICATION: NONE
FILE #: 109-12-223

DATE: 2 April 1959
SUBJECT: PANAMANIAN REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES
FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTER - PANAMA
CLASSIFICATION: NONE
FILE: SAC, MIAMI (109-43)

DATE: 5 MARCH 1959
SUBJECT: PANAMANIAN REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES
INTERNAL SECURITY - PANAMA
CLASSIFICATION: NONE
FILE: 109-12-223

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

OGC 77-2335
11 April 1977

David M. Curry, Esq.
First Assistant U.S. Attorney
Western District of Pennsylvania
633 U.S. Post Office and Courthouse
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219-

Dear Mr. Curry:

Re: Joseph Raymond Merola

In response to your letter of March 10, 1977 I wish to advise you that the Central Intelligence Agency had one meeting with Joseph Raymond Merola prior to August 1961. In late 1960 Joseph Raymond Merola made several telephone calls to a CIA office offering his assistance in a general way in connection with Cuban matters, which was refused. However, on 6 February 1961 Merola claimed to have information on a Latin American senator who was a "close friend and confidant" of "Che" Guevera. Since Guevera was listed as being the subject of foreign intelligence requirements, the CIA employee agreed to meet with Mr. Merola. The meeting took place on 6 February 1961 and is the only meeting with Merola prior to his incarceration which you stated in your letter began in August 1961.

Mr. Merola was not employed by the Central Intelligence Agency. His contact with the CIA could not be described as an undercover Government informant as alleged in the Writs of Error Coram Nobis by Victor Carlucci and Daniel Hanna. This one contact on 6 February 1961 by Merola with the CIA was voluntary on his part.

Mathew McVane, an employee of the CIA, did testify in San Diego in November 1975 concerning CIA contacts with Joseph Raymond Merola. The citation we have for that case is U.S. v. Dalton C. Smith, et al. in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of California, No. 74-2277-GT.

--- Page 8 ---

14-00000

The testimony given in that trial is not inconsistent with the response given above. It is true that after Merola was released from prison he again volunteered information to the CIA. Merola was a voluntary source of foreign intelligence.

I hope this provides sufficient information for you to file your response. If not, please call me at (AC 703) 351-7531.

Sincerely,

John K. Greaney
Associate General Counsel

cc: John Martin, Esq., Dept. of Justice

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000

INTERNAL
USE ONLY

CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)
Joseph Raymond Merola

FROM:
Maurice A. Sovern
0/SA/DO/O

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)

1. Mr. Raymond Warren
C/LA
3C2019 Hqs.

EXTENSION NO.
1542

DATE
8 April 1977

OFFICER'S
INITIALS
RECEIVED
FORWARDED

DATE
11 APR 1977

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL
INTERNAL
USE ONLY
UNCLASSIFIED

--- Page 10 ---

14-00000

FOR CIA OFFICIALS ONLY

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. John K. Greaney
Special Assistant to the
General Counsel

FROM: Maurice A. Sovern
0/SA/DO/O

SUBJECT: Joseph R. Merola
REFERENCE: Assistant United States Attorney,
Pennsylvania Letter, 10 March 1977,
Subject as Above

DATE
8 April 1977

1. The question in reference is the nature of any involvement of Merola with CIA prior to August 1961.

2. The Directorate's first recorded contact with Joseph Raymond Merola prior to August 1961 occurred on 6 February 1961. It followed a series of telephone calls over a period of several months (late 1960 - early 1961) in which Merola had expressed interest in offering his assistance in connection with Cuban matters. Our officer had declined contact until 6 February when Merola claimed to have information on a Latin American senator who was a "close friend and confidante" of "Che" Guevera. Because Guevera was the proper subject of foreign positive intelligence collection requirement our officer agreed to a meeting.

3. The last recorded contact, except for the litigation outlined below, with Merola was a telephone contact with Merola in late July 1975 when he volunteered additional foreign positive intelligence.

4. At the end of August 1975, Merola contacted a staff officer to ask for testimony in the criminal fraud trial in San Diego, California (U.S. v. Joseph R. Merola, et al, Southern District of California, CR 74-2277-GT) which we subsequently.

FOR CIA OFFICIALS ONLY
E2 IMPDET
CL BY 012860

--- Page 11 ---

14-00000

FOR CIA OFFICIALS ONLY

provided on 13 November 1975.

5. Subject is characterized as a voluntary occasional source of foreign positive intelligence who was in sporadic contact with us.

6. We greatly appreciate the Assistant United States Attorney's concern for the confidentiality of our information. The information above may be made available to the AUSA and the court as appropriate without further restriction.

Maurice A. Sovern
0/SA/DO/O:MASovern:kaw (1542)

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - OGC
C/DCD
C/LA
SA/DO/O

FOR CIA OFFICIALS ONLY

--- Page 12 ---

14-00000

SPEED LETTER

TO: SA/LA
ATTN: Frederic McCann

REPLY REQUESTED
YES NO

FROM: DCD
DATE: 13 April 1977
LETTER NO. OSS-3131

SUBJECT: Joseph R. Merola - Litigation
REFERENCE: ISS/PICG Memo dtd 17 March 1977

A review of the files confirms that the DCD was not in any way involved operationally with Joseph R. Merola prior to 1961. However, it should be noted that subsequent to his release from prison in November 1962, Merola was in contact with members of the Frente Revolucionario Democratico, an anti-Castro organization of interest to this Agency.

--- Page 13 ---

14-00000

FROM:
3.
4.

SUBJECT: Litigation Joseph R. Merola
Frederic McCann
ISS/PICG

DATE: 17 March 1977

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

Bill: The Merola
file is changed to
MAS.

INTERNAL
USE ONLY

--- Page 14 ---

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

17 March 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR: SA/LA/EICO
DCD

FROM: Frederic McCann
ISS/PICG

SUBJECT: Litigation: Joseph R. Merola

1. Attached herewith is an unclassified memorandum received from OGC which requests information on the "extent and nature of any involvement of (Joseph R.) Merola with federal agencies prior to August 1961".

2. A review of 201-257804 reveals that Mr. Merola may have been in contact with WH/Miami in 1961 and was in contact with DCD prior to 1961.

3. Please review your files and provide whatever information is pertinent to paragraph 1., above. No information will be released outside of CIA without your concurrence.

4. 201-257804 is attached to the SA/LA/EICO copy of this memorandum. Please return it with your reply by 1 April 1977.

Frederic McCann

Attachments:

CONFIDENTIAL

--- Page 15 ---

14-00000

DEPT OF JUSTICE DOCUMENT

DATE: 10 MARCH 1977
SUBJECT: JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA
CLASSIFICATION: NONE
FILE: NONE

--- Page 16 ---

14-00000

trist, "actively engaged in the service of the government."

Irving Green, attorney for Carlucci and Hanna, said the prosecutors, Robert I. Teitelbaum and Daniel J. Snyder, knew Merola was a government agent and therefore "perpetrated a fraud upon the trial court."

Teitelbaum and Snyder are now federal judges in Pittsburgh and have not commented about the action filed by Green, which is still pending. But an official familiar with their position said the two judges will, if necessary, swear they did not know Merola was a government agent.

Cuban Connection

"The answer to this whole thing revolves around Cuba," said this official.

Green, who represents Mannarino's son-in-law, said he didn't think Merola's testimony in Chicago had been particularly "helpful" to the prosecution. A "more logical assumption" is that Merola was freed from prison because of what he could do for the government in Cuba, he said.

"This guy works anywhere he wants to," said Green. "The government has protected him in California, Chicago and everywhere else. He still has to be of value to the government."

One thing is certain: Merola is well known in the Miami Cuban community and among those who have been linked to alleged Castro assassination attempts.

"Joe was an undercover agent, he was closely associated with the government," Frank Sturgis, of Miami, told The Bulletin, "He did have an association with the CIA."

Sturgis, who gained notoriety as one of those convicted in the Watergate burglary, was a top Castro Lieutenant during the revolution who served as a double agent for the CIA. He later worked against Castro in the Bay of Pigs operation and has admitted plotting to kill Castro.

"I know Joe was involved with the revolutionaries," said Sturgis, "I know he had an association with the CIA, but because of compartmentalization, you don't know what they're doing."

Tied to Burglar

A source close to the House Assassinations Committee said Merola was "a good friend" of Fugerio (Rolando) Martinez, another of those convicted of the Watergate burglary. Martinez is associated with the CIA in the Bay of Pigs effort and in other anti-Castro moves.

"Joe's place in Miami Beach was on the water and it was used by anti-Castro groups to smuggle arms to Cuba," this source said. "Martinez was one of them."

"I can't recall," Martinez said, when asked by The Bulletin about using Merola's dock. "Really, I can't tell you anything about it.

"He was connected with helping people here in Miami against the dictatorship of Batista. He might have been in some other branch that I don't know about."

Alfredo Borges, a Miami business consultant and a Bay of Pigs veteran, told a Bulletin reporter inquiring about Merola to "please write me a letter."

"I don't know who you are," Borges said. "I cannot talk over the telephone."

One investigator interested in Merola said the matter is "very sensitive, records are hard to come by."

"He seems to fit everything," this investigator said. "He's a pilot, he speaks Spanish, he knows Cuba and he's connected. But nobody wants to cooperate."

A Scared Man

Records indeed are hard to come by. Official and unofficial attempts to obtain complete records of Merola's arrests proved fruitless. So did efforts to determine what encounters he might have had with officials responsible for watching the nation's borders.

But despite the belief of some that Merola enjoys the protection of the government while at the same time being welcomed by organized crime, those who know him say that is not the case.

"Joe has got a little money," said one Florida acquaintance. "I don't know where he gets it. But he's an informer and they hate informers. The mob is concerned. He goes around Dade (County), but he is very, very careful where he goes, Joe is scared."

--- Page 17 ---

14-00000

SUBJECT: Court Appearance on 13 November 1975, San Diego, California

2. On 13 November 1975, Matt MacVane appeared as a witness for the defense at the United States District Court for the Southern District of California, 325 West F Street, San Diego, California. The case was the United States of America v. Dalton C. Smith, et al. MacVane was called to testify by E. Mac Amos Jr., attorney for defendant Joe Merola. In honor of the subpoena MacVane appeared at the court. On 13 November 1975 at approximately 15:30 hours San Diego time MacVane was called to the witness stand.

3. Mac Amos, attorney for defendant Joe Merola began questioning after MacVane was sworn in as a witness. Amos asked how long MacVane had been employed by the CIA? He asked if MacVane knew defendant Merola? He asked if MacVane were told by Merola about a shipment of surplus helicopter parts going to the country of El Salvador? He asked MacVane if Merola had volunteered other information to the Agency? He then asked if Merola were ever paid for such information? Amos also tried to establish the value of surplus parts in Latin America compared to the US. This was objected to by attorney Robert Thaller, prosecutor in the case. The judge sustained the objection and MacVane did not have to answer the question. Amos finished his questioning and Thaller began a short cross examination. Thaller asked if MacVane ever heard Merola mention stocks? He also asked if MacVane knew the name of the corporation that Merola represented? He then pointed out that even if some stock fraud were occurring, MacVane would not be witting because MacVane was not an investigator, but rather a collector of foreign information. The cross examination then ended. All questions were answered to the best of MacVane's ability and knowledge.

4. There appeared to be little purpose in the appearance of MacVane because it was obvious that MacVane knew nothing of any value concerning the case. MacVane's total time on the witness stand was about 10 minutes. After completion of his testimony MacVane was released.

BRUCE MAINWARING

MCMacVane:glh
E2 IMPDET CL BY OL1653

DISTRICT JUDGE
GORDON THOMPSON

--- Page 18 ---

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED
CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE

APPROVAL
COMMENT
CONCURRENCE
DIRECT REPLY
DISPATCH
FILE
INFORMATION
PREPARE REPLY
RECOMMENDATION
RETURN
SIGNATURE

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER
FROM: NAME ADDRESS AND PHONE NO

UNCLASSIFIED
CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

--- Page 19 ---

14-00000

SECRET

6 November 1975

MEMO FOR RECORD:

RE: MEROLA, Joseph R.
201-257804
U.S. Citizen Registered to DEA/MIAMI Dec 74

FYI:

Today, Randy Daugherty, DCD case officer, asked to borrow subject 201 because he wanted to take it to Office of Genl. Counsel for Mr. John Greaney.

There is to be a meeting today between Mr. Greaney, Bob Starling, DCD COPS, and Matt McVane, DCD man in Miami who is visiting Hqs. McVane has an interest in MEROLA.

Told Randy that MEROLA was DEA source and that matter should be coordinated with NARCOG.

This transpired during lunch hour - Randy was in a hurry and I gave him file. He said he would tell Mr. Greaney that Subj. was DEA source.

SECRET

--- Page 20 ---

14-00000

OGC 75-2073
5 November 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Joseph Raymond Merola

1. On 3 November I talked to Mr. Matt McVane, DCD officer stationed in Miami, and he said that he had received the subpoena from E. Mac Amos, Jr. to appear as a defense witness in the trial in San Diego on November. Mr. McVane agreed to come to Headquarters on 6 November to discuss the information in the files and Mr. Robert Starling of DCD agreed to join in the meeting. Mr. McVane told me that Lt. Colonel Douglas W. Haldane, who had previously been on detail to the DCD Miami Office, had returned to the Army and was currently assigned somewhere in Europe and that his address was Headquarters, USAREUR, APO New York, New York 09403.

2. Since this Office had received a letter from Mr. Amos with a request for the current address of Colonel Haldane, I called Mr. Amos on 4 November and explained to him that Colonel Haldane was no longer with the Central Intelligence Agency and it was our understanding that Colonel Haldane was stationed in Europe. Mr. Amos did not want the current address of Colonel Haldane. He did state, however, that Mr. McVane would not be needed in San Diego until Wednesday morning, 12 November. As things stood now, Mr. Merola was the fifth defendant and it would be that length of time before Mr. McVane's testimony would be needed.

3. Mr. McVane told me that he had been called by Mr. Robert Thaller of the U.S. Attorney's Office in California. I told Mr. McVane that I would contact Mr. Thaller. I called Mr. Thaller who is a member of the Organized Crime Strike Force, Department of Justice, Room 2307, 300 North Los Angeles Street, Los Angeles, California 90012, telephone No. (AC 213) 688-5808. Mr. Thaller was pleased to hear that Mr. McVane

--- Page 21 ---

14-00000

was being made available to testify and explained that he thought Mr. Amos had already prepared a motion to dismiss if Mr. McVane was to be denied as a witness for the defense. I explained to Mr. Thaller that Mr. McVane was coming to Headquarters on Thursday, 6 November, and said that we would call him to discuss the role Mr. McVane played in receiving information from Mr. Merola.

4. If this case runs parallel to many criminal prosecutions, the defense may never put Mr. McVane on the stand when he actually shows up as this may prove detrimental to their defense. However, we should be prepared for his testimony if, in fact, it does take place.

John K. Greaney
Associate General Counsel

cc: Chief, DCD
Matt McVane

Distribution:
Original - OGC SUBJ: LITIGATION CRIMINAL

--- Page 22 ---

14-00000

HOLT, RHOADES AND HOLLYWOOD
A PROFESSIONAL CORPORATION
ATTORNEYS AT LAW
1010 SECOND AVENUE, SUITE 1712
SAN DIEGO, CALIFORNIA 92101

Area 714
Telephone 238-1712

October 28, 1975

Office of the General Counsel
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D.C. 20505

Dear Sir:

Our firm represents Mr. Joseph Merola who is presently on trial as a defendant in the Southern District of California in an action entitled United States of America v. Dalton C. Smith, et al. (No. 74-2277-GT). In order to properly defend Mr. Merola, we need to utilize the testimony of Mr. Matt McVane and possibly the testimony of Col. Douglas Haldane. We understand that Mr. McVane is employed by the Central Intelligence Agency and works out of the Miami office. We also understand that Col. Douglas Haldane is employed by the Central Intelligence Agency but we do not have an address for service upon Col. Haldane.

Enclosed you will find copies of Subpoenas issued for Mr. McVane and Col. Haldane. These Subpoenas require the attendance of the individuals in the Southern District of California at San Diego, California on November 11, 1975 at 9:00 a.m. Enclosed you will also find a copy of the Order signed by Judge Gordon Thompson authorizing the issuance of the Subpoena for Mr. McVane.

Since we do not have an address for Col. Haldane at this time, the court has not approved the issuance of a Subpoena for him in which the government would be responsible for all of the expenses and costs.

We have been informed by Mr. McVane that it is necessary for him to obtain the approval of your office before he can testify in this matter. Accordingly, we request that he be granted the necessary approval in order to allow him to testify in this matter. In addition, we request that we be provided with an address for Col. Haldane and that he also be allowed to testify in this case. We would appreciate being advised as soon as

--- Page 23 ---

14-00000

Office of the General Counsel
October 28, 1975
Page Two

possible with respect to whether these persons will be available for testimony. If we can provide any additional information with respect to this case, please do not hesitate to contact the undersigned. Thank you for your courtesy and cooperation.

Very truly yours,

HOLT, RHOADES & HOLLYWOOD

E. Mac Amos, Jr.

Enclosures

--- Page 24 ---

14-00000

United States District Court
FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
v.
DALTON C. SMITH, et al.

TO: MATT MCVANE

You are hereby commanded to appear in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California in the city of San Diego, at 325 West F Street on the 11th day of November 1975 at 9:00 o'clock A.M. to testify in the above-entitled case.

This subpoena is issued on application of the defendant.

October 23, 1975

E. MAC AMOS, JR.
Attorney for Defendant MEROLA
1010 Second Ave., Suite 1712
San Diego, CA 92101

WILLIAM W. LUDDY
CLERK

Deputy Clerk

RETURN

Received this subpoena at on
and on at o'clock
I served it on the within named
by delivering a copy to and tendering to the fee for one day's attendance and the mileage allowed by law.

Service Fees:
Travel
Services
Total

By

Insert "United States," or "defendant" as the case may be.
Fees and mileage need not be tendered to the witness upon service of a subpoena issued in behalf of the United States or an officer or agency thereof, 28 USC 1825, or on behalf of a defendant who is financially unable to pay such costs (Rule 17 (b), Federal Rules Criminal Procedure).

--- Page 25 ---

14-00000

United States District Court
FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
v.
DALTON C. SMITH, et al.

TO: COL. DOUGLAS HALDANE

You are hereby commanded to appear in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California in the city of San Diego, at 325 West F Street on the 11th day of November 1975 at 9:00 o'clock A.M. to testify in the above-entitled case.

This subpoena is issued on application of the defendant.

October 23, 1975

E. MAC AMOS, JR.
Attorney for Defendant MEROLA
1010 Second Ave., Suite 1712
San Diego, CA 92101

WILLIAM W. LUDDY
CLERK

Deputy Clerk

RETURN

Received this subpoena at on
and on at o'clock
I served it on the within named
by delivering a copy to and tendering to the fee for one day's attendance and the mileage allowed by law.

Service Fees:
Travel
Services
Total

By

Insert "United States," or "defendant" as the case may be.
Fees and mileage need not be tendered to the witness upon service of a subpoena issued in behalf of the United States or an officer or agency thereof, 28 USC 1825, or on behalf of a defendant who is financially unable to pay such costs (Rule 17 (b), Federal Rules Criminal Procedure).

--- Page 26 ---

14-00000

HOLT, RHOADES & HOLLYWOOD
A PROFESSIONAL CORPORATION
ATTORNEYS AT LAW
1010 SECOND AVENUE, SUITE 1712
SAN DIEGO, CALIFORNIA 92101
PHONE 238-1712

E. MAC AMOS, JR.
Attorneys for Defendant
JOSEPH R. MEROLA

FILED
OCT 22 1975

CLERK, US DISTRICT COURT
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
Plaintiff,
v.
JOSEPH R. MEROLA, et al.
Defendants.

NO. CR 74-2277-GT

ORDER FOR ISSUANCE OF SUBPOENAS

This court having considered the application of defendant Joseph Merola, and the supporting affidavit of E. Mac Amos, Jr. for issuance of subpoenas directed to Edward Stanton and Matt McVane and having found that good cause exists for the issuance of said subpoenas,

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT the clerk of this court issue subpoenas requiring the attendance of Matt McVane and Edward Stanton on November 11, 1975 at 9:00 a.m. in this court and, further, that all costs and fees in relation to the attendance of said witnesses shall be borne by the United States under the provisions of the Criminal Justice Act.

DATED: OCT 22 1975

GORDON THOMPSON, JR
DISTRICT JUDGE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA

--- Page 27 ---

14-00000

24 October 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Joseph Raymond Merola

1. On 23 October, Mr. Robert Starling of DCD called to say that Matthew McVane (phonetic), a DCD officer who is stationed in Miami, Florida, had received a telephone call from a San Diego attorney saying that he was mailing a subpoena to him. The attorney, E. Mac Amos, Jr., is a member of the law firm of Holt, Rhodes and Hollywood at 1010 Second Avenue, San Diego, California 92101, telephone No. (AC 714) 238-1712. Mr. Amos advised Mr. McVane that the subpoena was for his appearance on behalf of Mr. Merola who was on trial in San Diego.

2. Mr. Starling indicated that the charges against Merola had something to do with exporting airplane parts without a license. I called Mr. Clyde Bryant, Office of Munitions Control, Department of State, to determine if this prosecution was related to 22 U.S.C. 1934. Mr. Bryant called back and said that Merola was one of seven defendants being tried on criminal fraud charges for having engaged in a flimflam operation against the Salvadorian government. The scheme was to establish a facility in Salvador to assemble and service helicopters. The group had assembled a collection of Army surplus parts for helicopters and was in the process of shipping them without an export license and they were seized by U.S. Customs officers on 21 February 1974. Mr. Bryant indicated that the Assistant U.S. Attorney in San Diego in charge of the prosecution was a Mr. Robert Thaller, telephone No. (AC 714) 293-5668. Mr. Bryant also indicated that an individual by the name of Henry Maierhoffer was also one of the defendants and it was Mr. Bryant's recollection that Maierhoffer had some previous connection with CIA.

3. I called Mr. Starling and reported this information to him and he said that Mr. Merola was a real operator in the Miami area, always involved in some scheme to buy and sell weapons but that he had volunteered information to the DCD Office, some of which was useful. I asked Mr. Starling to have Mr. McVane call me when he got the subpoena but that he would not have to go unless they furnished the travel funds.

John K. Greaney
Associate General Counsel

cc: Chief/DCD
Distribution OVER

--- Page 28 ---

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET
(When Filled In)

201 File on U.S. Citizen
30 Jan 1975

The 201 file on Merola (surname) (201 number indicated below) can be most accurately be categorized as indicated below:

should be closed.
witting collaborator. OI Code A1.
potential witting collaborator; date opened OI Code A2.
former witting collaborator (relationship terminated). OI Code A3.
potential witting collaborator never contacted (security reasons, derogatory information). OI Code A4.
counterintelligence case (i.e., involving a foreign intelligence or security service). OI Code A5.
all others. OI Code A6. ISR

Signed
C/LSN/ISR

This assignment of category has been entered into STAR.

Signed
(initials) (date)

This document in a permanent part of this file.

201-257804
E2 IMPDET
CL BY 002216

CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET
(When Filled In)

--- Page 29 ---

14-00000

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR

STAFF
CONF:
INFO:
FILE

MESSAGE
DATE-TIME GROUP
091910Z DEC 74
PAGES
2

MESSAGE REFERENCE INDICATOR
FIDES

NO INDEX
DISSEM BY:

TO: LA/MIAMI INFO CARACAS, PORT AU PRINCE, BOGOTA.
MHABYSS PBRAMPART

REF:
A. LA/MIAMI 22730
B. DIRECTOR 630872

1. JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA (201-257804) WAS REGISTERED IN ISR TO DEA/MIAMI ON 18 DEC 74 AS A COOPERATING INDIVIDUAL FOR USE IN HAITI AND COLOMBIA. IT IS REQUESTED THAT LA/MIAMI ADVISE DEA/MIAMI TO CONTACT THE FBI AND DEPARTMENT OF STATE FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON MEROLA.

2. FOR CARACAS, PORT AU PRINCE, BOGOTA: JMD JUNE THAT DEA HAS INFORMED BKHERALD THAT MEROLA WAS OF OPERATIONAL INTEREST. DEA REQUESTED TRACES AND STATED MEROLA REPORTEDLY WORKED FOR BKHERALD IN LATE 1950'S. WE REPLIED THAT MEROLA HAD NEVER WORKED FOR BKHERALD, ALTHOUGH WE WERE AWARE THAT HE HAD MADE SUCH CLAIMS ON NUMBER OF PREVIOUS INSTANCES.

3. FILE: 201-257804. E2, IMPDET.

DATE: 8 JANUARY 1975
ORIG: DARYL GEILER
UNIT: LA/CAR/CAR
EXT: 1249

DAVID A. PHILLIPS
C/LK

RELEASING OFFICER
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

LA/NARCOG
DDO/NARCOG
LSN/ISR

REF A REQUESTED TRACES & REGISTRATION OF MEROLA
REF B FORWARDED TRACES.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
RECORD COPY

ALFONSO SPERA
C/LA/CAR
E 2