```markdown
14-00000

104-10182-10052
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: WIROGUE
201-233477
VOL. II

INCLUSIVE DATES:
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:
ROOM:
DELETIONS, IF ANY: THIRD AGENCY DOCUMENTS

DATE DATE
RECEIVED RETURNED
REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
DAN HARDWAY

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

14-00000
PRIOR TO FILING
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS
1. Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back
flap and forward to RID.
2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it
records significant action taken or
comments requiring preservation.

FROM:
RID/
TO: ACTION BRANCH
If file no. and title shown are not
proper, insert proper file no. below
and forward document to RID/AN.
PROPER FILE NO.

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES
FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK, IF APPROPRIATE
COMMENTS
MICROFILMED
FEB 12 1965
DOC. MICRO. SER.

FILE TITLE
FILE NUMBER PRIMARY CODED
201- 233477
DOCUMENT DATE DOCUMENT NUMBER
16 MAR 1961 ACLA 00491

FORM 6100
USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS
SECRET

14-00000
LA
DISPATCH
TO Chief, Africa Division
INFO
FROM
SUBJECT
Review of ID Project to Date
New Position in Congolese Air Force
ACTION REQUIRED
Support of WIROGUE
REFERENCE(S)
A. DIR-29127, dated 12 March 1961
B. ACL-132, dated 17 November 1960

DATE
March 16 1961
RE: 43-3-CEOX ONE
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED
BY QUALIFIED HQ. DESK ONLY
This dispatch is to inform Headquarters of the main developments and problems concerning WIROGUE to date, and to set forth in detail Station thoughts and plans concerning WIROGUE.

2. WIROGUE, in his contacts with Robert B. Guthman, and in the last two weeks with Lester H. Salvack, has always presented a multitude of ideas which include a strong element of violence, roughness or just plain larceny. In spite of being given his pistol, he persisted in desiring that a pistol or machine gun was in addition a necessary thing for the Congolese. At first on white men he said that that will right, machine gun would do. He even suggested the formation of a special force of whites, with himself the leader, to "right the Congolese in case of trouble." We concur with the description of WIROGUE in Ref 3, except for the means to obtain the best results from him. WIROGUE tends to over-complicate devices to implement them, and will too often create more problems than he solves. His security is not outstanding from an operational point of view. Control is seemingly best when WIROGUE can air his problems, requests, and discuss them with the case officer. The station has found it necessary to meet him with greater frequency for briefing (rather than targeting), interest, encouragement but, above all guidance, and apply a checkrein to what are mostly rather wild ideas. Attachment A is an example of the type of situation WIROGUE tends to undertake on his own and the security hazards he represents in such situations.

3. In addition, WIROGUE's attitude and responsibility concerning money leaves much to be desired. The comment in Ref B concerning WIROGUE's "propensity for financial mismanagement" is fully realized by this station. His financial misadventures include, briefly, he spent his money lavishly upon arrival, invested in equipment he didn't need, besides several stores for which he is not yet prepared to use, bought and sold at a loss several cars including a large Chrysler (in spite of being told at the time that it was far too conspicuous). Then after squandering the original $4000 loan given to him, he requested his $3000 housing allowance in one lump sum. He now seems to have accepted the request that he will receive the housing allowance in "dribbles" (his words) but still feels that he told he would get it in a lump sum payment. He has yet to show from his actions any aptitude for setting up a business, even if provided with all necessary equipment he could probably not follow through without additional financial assistance. The Station is that no matter how much money he is provided, WIROGUE would get into situations of least spend all that he had available.

4. On 4 March 1961, WIROGUE telephoned and asked someone to meet him in Leopoldville. He explained, at the meeting that he was now working for PIERROT (name unknown) and that he had been meeting PIERROT that morning before he had met with the undersigned. (WIROGUE automatically referred to PIERROT as "the major" and said that he didn't remember his name. In spite of being briefed otherwise, continued to fail to obtain names of people with whom he dealt.) WIROGUE was to meet PIERROT the evening of 4 March at 1700 to discuss the possibility and details of his becoming administrative liaison officer under contract to the Congolese Air Force. PIERROT is interested in developing his own cadre of instructors, both for flying and mechanical work, to develop further the embryo group of 150 cadets currently more or less ready for flying training.

5. At meetings held 5 and 6 March WIROGUE supplied the following details concerning his new job: he was to meet the Minister of National Defense ad interim, Fernand KAZADI, on 7 March to sign a contract. He finally did meet KAZADI (though WIROGUE only knew him as H. le Ministre) on 9 March but no contract was yet signed. As of 15 March WIROGUE had not yet signed a contract but this is pending, he tells us, any day. (A copy of this contract will be forwarded to Headquarters when obtained.) The terms of the agreement include, he states, that he will provide through his European contacts at least three pilot instructors and three mechanic instructors within thirty days. (Thirty days from when is an open question.) More instructors will be needed at a later date, the possible total number being set at ten, five for flying and five for mechanical instruction. These instructors will be paid 20,000 Belgian Congo Francs a month plus 10,000 BCF bonus. WIROGUE will receive 25,000 BCF and 10,000 BCF bonus each month, with housing to be supplied in all cases. If the instructors have families, family transport in addition to their own will be provided by the Congolese government. In addition, medical care and a fifteen day vacation each year is to be provided. The work week is to consist of a 5 day week.

6. WIROGUE has said that he is totally dependent upon KUBARK support to supply the needed instructors. He also feels he must provide documentation to prove he is an ex-captain in the German Army and is quite anxious concerning this point. (Answered by part 3, Ref 1). WIROGUE also feels that the instructors should be other than PBPRIME in order to better back up his cover story, since PBPRIME instructors might point the finger of suspicion in his direction. One or two PBPRIME candidates, however could be included providing a proper cover story were provided. WIROGUE needs names of candidates as quickly as possible, though a dummy list of names "to whom he has written" can be supplied if either PIERROT or KAZADI become too insistent. All candidates must be French speaking. In addition, WIROGUE needs a good 35 mm camera and feels that this was promised to him, with other equipment, and though his targeting has shifted he still has great use for it. Currently WIROGUE has one of the station Leicas on short loan in order to photograph the Ndolo Airport facilities for PIERROT.

7. Recruited instructors should be provided a means of outside contact with the Station separate from WIROGUE, which could be implemented if needed, at a later date. The actual hiring and correspondence relating to their contracts should be sent over to WIROGUE as though he were handling the entire matter himself on behalf of the Congolese government. The address which should be used for all correspondence on an overt basis is included with this dispatch as Attachment B, with the title of Major preceding the name provided in Attachment A of ACLA-491.

8. With a set salary from the Congolese Government, it is WIROGUE's wish to commence repayment of the $4,000 loan made to him for his business. Also, this particular situation could be fairly short-lived in view of United Nation's offer to the Air Force to assist in Congolese Air Force training. It is obvious that PIERROT and the Congolese Government are trying to develop several sources at once to guarantee training for their embryo Air Force, and the final outcome is difficult to determine. The Station is also aware that PIERROT and KAZADI could be using WIROGUE at this juncture to obtain instructors for the air force, but might ease him out of their own accord later on, either deeming him not worth keeping because he is not a professional airman, or because he will have done something to antagonize them. Also, the Station or Headquarters may deem it advisable to ease him out of this job, as Headquarters has suggested in Ref A, after he has provided an entree for putting some instructors on the scene. We believe this situation represents a worthwhile gain, However, if WIROGUE does obtain the contract as presently constituted.

9. Attachment C provides some information concerning Paul Arnold PIERROT and the Congolese Air Force which was provided by the Air Attache, Leopoldville, and which has already been reported through their channels. PIERROT is obviously trying to develop a training program and build up the Congolese Air Force from several sources at once, and if several of these sources provide the desired aid it is debatable if his own program (with WIROGUE) would become very extensive or even be implemented. It is also possible that WIROGUE's role in the training picture could shift at any time feel that at this time we can only go along with developments as they occur and try to realize the maximum benefit from the situation Headquarters will be kept informed of any changes in the situation, and be provided more specific data when available.

10. In all fairness to WIROGUE, it should be pointed out that until recently the station has not had the time to properly target WIROGUE. As he appears to be untrained in KUTUBE and NUCAGE operations, he requires a great deal of case officer time, an item which is in short supply in this station. We believe WIROGUE may develop into a worthwhile asset, if the time and attention he requires can be spent on him, however. The station is taking the appropriate steps in this direction.

Lester H. Salvack
16 March 1961
Attachments: 3 b/w
Distribution:
4-Hqs, w/attach

14-00000
IDENTITY: Peter de GROEVE
SECRET
SECRET
SEPARATE COVER ATT TO: ACLA-630
Att #2
ACLA-630
Separate Cover Attachments #1 and #2
h/w.
Chief, F
201-233477

14-00000
Attachment C
SECRET
SUBJECT: Paul Arnold PIERROT - Background Information provided by
Air Attache, Leopoldville

1. N'DOLO airport is currently being evacuated by the U.N.O.C.
forces and turned over to the Congolese government for use by the
Congolese Air Force There are some 150 cadets who have received some
training and are considered ready for advanced training, but as of this
time, have nowhere to be trained PIERROT has made extensive efforts
to obtain aid from many sources to train these cadets The AIRA re-
ports that PIERROT has requested aid from the Belgians, the British,
United Nations, and asked the AIRA to request aid from the French for
the Congolese Air Force About 30 cadets are in training in Tunisia at
the present time. On 11 March the AIRA recommended aid be extended to
the Congolese Air Force, but under the auspices of the United Nations.

2. PIERROT also reported 11 March that he had 6 Moth and 9 Har-
vard T-6 aircraft being delivered near the end of March, and asked if
the United Nations Command would allow them to enter the Congo. He
even offered to let the planes remain under U.N. control.

3. PIERROT is a mulatto and claims to have a white grandmother
in Dallas, Texas He was trained by the Belgians and claims to have
flown C-47's and T-33 jet planes, though he has not been on flying sta-
tus since 1956 due to goiter trouble At this time accurate bio data
is not available His assistant is Lt K.J. LEMAN who is reportedly
completely devoted to PIERROT. PIERROT is personally ambitious and at
one point in the fall of 1960, he approached TPELIDE authorities with
a plan to take over the government if they would help him His plan
was too transparent and weak for any serious consideration at that
time

14-00000
DATE
TO
FROM
11
17 MAY 62
DIRECTOR
LEOPOLOVILLE
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
ACTION C/AF 3 (COPY ISSUED TO AF CABLE DESK AT 1355 17 MAY
ROUTING
2
5
6
MAY 17 17452 62
PRIORITY
INFO
ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/TSD 2, C/EE 3, S/C 2
per CSN 43-43
IN 36726
PRITY DIR FRAN CITE LEOP 3918
RYBAT WIROGUE
REF DIR 10710
(OUT 83491)
1. WIROGUE (W) STATED 17 MAY HE LEAVING VIA SABENA 21 MAY.

2. PER PARA 3 REF. SHOULD LEOP OR FRAN INFORM W OF DANGER.
NEED CONTACT INSTRUCTIONS FRAN SOONEST. ADVISE.
END OF MESSAGE
C/S COMMENT: *HQS FAVORS FRAN CONTACT FOR WIROGUE IF FRAN WILLING AND
ABLE TO HANDLE.

14-00000
ORG : E.N. KORN PATTERSON/jr.
UNIT : CAF/5
EXT : 5032
DATE : 16 May 1962
TO : LEOPOLDVILLE FRANKFURT
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF:
INFO:
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
ROUTING
1
2
5
3
6
MAY 16 1844Z 62
PRIORITY
ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/TSD 2, C/EE 3, S/C 2
per CSH 43-43
IN 47511
PRITY LEOP
INFO FRAN PRITY
CITE DIR 10710
OUT 83494
RYBAT WIROGUE AQUATIC
REF: A. LEOP 3885 (IN 34623)
B. LEOP 3462 (IN 47511) (BEING RELAYED FRAN)
1. HRS FAVORS FRAN CONTACT FOR WIROGUE (W) IF FRAN WILLING AND ABLE TO
HANDLE. PURPOSE WOULD BE RETRIEVE HIS PRESENT DOCUMENTS IN EXCHANGE FOR
SUBSTITUTE PAPERS, PREFERABLY SUCH AS WOULD PREVENT HIS RETURN TO CONGO AND
AVOID POSSIBILITY FUTURE COMPROMISE TO KUBARK. W SHOULD BE TOLD HIS COMPLETE
COOPERATION ESSENTIAL IF CONTACT TO BE CONTINUED AND THAT WE WILLING GIVE HIM
LEGAL DOCUMENTATION ON THIS PREMISE. FRAN PLEASE ADVISE CONCURRENCE AND
CONTACT PLAN.

2. FYI RETRIEVAL AUSTRIAN PAPERS OF PRIMARY IMPORTANCE. PROPOSE HOLD
DISCUSSIONS FIRST TO DETERMINE W DESIRES AND OUR ABILITY MEET THEM. DEPENDING
ON RESULTS OF TALKS WOULD OFFER W ONE OF FOLLOWING CHOICES DOCUMENTS IN
EXCHANGE:
A. WEST GERMAN REFUGEE
B. THIRD COUNTRY PASSPORT (POSISH, CUBAN, DOMINICAN, ETC)
C. HIS ORIGINAL NOW EXPIRED FRENCH DOCUMENTS.
W SHOULD BE TOLD OF ABOVE ONLY BY FRAN CONTACT. BELIEVE MAY BE EASIER
RETRIEVE PRESENT PAPERS IF HE REASONABLY CONFIDENT SUBSTITUTE DOCUMENTS BE

14-00000
DATE
TO
FROM
ACTION
INFO
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
PAGE 2
ROUTING
1
2
5
3
6
IN 47511
LEOP 3462
COORDINATING OFFICERS
RELEASING OFFICER
SECRET
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy No.

14-00000
DATE
TO
FROM
ACTION
INFO
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
ROUTING
1
2
5
3
6
PRIORITY LEOPOLDVILLE FRANKFURT
DIRECTOR
CONF:
INFO:
CITE DIR
DEFERRED
ROUTINE
OUT 83997
11783
MORE TENABLE.
3X. RECOMMEND W BE TOLD OF DANGER HE FACES IN STAYING IN CONGO VIEW
REF A INVESTIGATION AS ADDITIONAL INCENTIVE TO QUIT CONGO FOR GOOD.
4S. LEOP AUTHORIZED CONVERT PROCEEDS OF W CAR SALE AT STATION RATE.
END OF MESSAGE
C/S COMMENT: *VIEW MALIERE INVESTIGATION, BELIEVED URGENT KUBARK PREVENT
WIROGUE RETURN FRAN AS SUBJ USING KUBARK FALSE DOCS AND STA ALMOST CERTAIN
BE INVOLVED IF ARRESTED.

14-00000
ORIG
UNIT
EXT
DATE
TO
FROM:
CONF:
INFO:
TO
INFO
ROBERT BOUCHARD
AF/5
5032
17 May 1962
FRANKFURT
LEOPOLDVILLE
DIRECTOR
C/AF 3
ADDP, C/CI, C/EE 3, S/C 2
PRITY LEOP
FRAN
RYBAT WIROGUE
REF: LEOP 3918 (IN 36726)
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
ROUTING
1
2
5
3
6
MAY 17 14222 62
PRIORITY
OPERATIONAL
IMMEDIATE
CITE DIR
OUT 83997
11029
SUGGEST WIROGUE BE INFORMED BY LEOP OF INVESTIGATION RISK.
END OF MESSAGE
14-00000
DATE
TO
FROM
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
ROUTING
1
2
5
3
6
MAY 24 1962
DIRECTOR
FRANKFURT LEOPOLDVILLE
ACTION: C/AF 3
INFO
ADDP, C/CI, CDC, C/TSD 2, C/EE 3, S/C 2
PRITY FRAN LEOP
INFO FROB
RYBAT WIROGUE TECH CABEZONE
REF. A. FRAN 0502 (IN 39623)
B. FRAN 0545 (IN 40229)
C. LEOP 3955 (IN 39724)
1. REF B APPEARS OFFER PROMISING APPROACH IF CAN BE RECONCILED
WITH REF A, PARAS 3 AND 4. DOES WILLINGNESS WIROGUE ACCEPT BACK-
REFUGEE
STOPPED GERMAN DOCUMENTS MEAN HE NO LONGER OPPOSED REMAINING GERMANY:
AGREE PARA 2 REF B PLOYS BUT INCLINED DOUBT SUBJECT WOULD BE DETERRED
FROM RETURN TO CONGO BY THREAT OF ARREST, OR THAT SUBJECT WOULD
WIND UP CONGO AFFAIRS IN "TWO OR THREE DAYS".
2. IF SUBJECT INSISTS HE MUST RETURN TO CONGO TO CONCLUDE GOC
CONTRACT, BELIEVE WE SHOULD ACQUIESCE RELUCTANTLY AND HAND BACK
DOCUMENTS FOR THIS PURPOSE ON THEORY IT BETTER TO HAVE FRIENDLY OR
NEUTRAL TERMINATED AGENT IN CONGO THAN UNFRIENDLY ONE ELSEWHERE.
FOLLOWING POINTS ALSO PERTINENT:
A. NO OTHER KUBARK COMPONENT INTERESTED WIROGUE SERVICES
B. THERE NO FEASIBLE MEANS PREVENTING HIS RETURN TO CONGO
IF HE WISHES.

14-00000
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
PAGE 2
ROUTING
1
2
5
3
6
IN 39623
FRAN 0502
C. HIS AUSTRIAN DOCUMENTATION, ALTHOUGH EXPOSABLE AS
FRAUDULENT, CANNOT BE TRACED TO KUBARK. (HE TOLD IT "PURCHASED
ON BLACK MARKET").
D. PROVISION OF SUBSTITUTE DOCUMENTATION PRIOR TO SUBJECT'S
DISENGAGEMENT FROM CONGO WOULD FURTHER COMPLICATE SITUATION
AND RENEW OUR INVOLVEMENT.
3. IN AGREEING TO SUBJECTS RETURN TO CONGO PER ABOVE PARA
FRAN SHOULD CAUTION HIM. NOT TO CONTACT LEOP AND HIM COME BACK
(HE MAY
IF CONGO BUSINESS CAN BE CONCLUDED IN NEAR FUTURE
FRAN FOR NEW DOCUMENTATION AND RESETTLEMENT SUBJECT SHOULD
TAKE NECESSARY STEPS WHILE FRAN SO THAT NEW DOCUMENTATION WILL BE
AVAILABLE ON HIS RETURN FROM CONGO.
4. LEOP: IF WIROGUE RETURNS, AVOID CONTACT BUT CONTINUE MONITOR
ACTIVITIES AND INVESTIGATION.
END OF MESSAGE
CS COMMENT: *SUGGESTION FOR HANDLING WIROGUE CASE.

14-00000
284
DATE
24 MAY 62
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
S-E-C-R-E-T
TO
DIRECTOR
FROM
FRANKFURT
ACTION: C/AF 3
INFO
C/EE 3, S/C 2
ROUTING
1
2
5
3
6
MAY 24 1512Z 62
PRIORITY
IN 40229 FRAN 0545
CITE
RYBAT WIROGUE TECHS CABEZONE
C/S COMMENT: ACTION RESPONSIBILITY FOR THIS CABLE HAS BEEN TRANSFERRED FROM
EE TO AF BY WILLIAM PHELPS EE DIV EXT 1858 IN COORDINATION WITH MR. SPRINGES
AF DIV EXT 5564.

14-00000
POC 43XF PC29
PP UKFFC
DE UKFFC 10
P. 2416Z ZEA
BT
XXXXX ZEA
ZERO FIVE SIX VASH ZERO SIX SIX LEOP
SECRET
PRITY DIR LEOP INFO FROB CITE FRAN 0545
RYBAT WIROGUE TECHS CABEZONE

1. SECOND LACKLEN/WIROGUE MEET 23 MAY AMIABLE. W STATED HIS
GREATEST DESIRE IS TO LEGALIZE HIMSELF. WILLING ACCEPT GERMAN DOCS
IF BACKSTOPPED. CLAIMS HAS MORAL OBLIGATION CARRY OUT "CONGOLESE
ARMY ASSIGNMENT IN EUROPE" AND MUST COME UP WITH ANSWERS RE 30
MILLION FRANCS WITHIN 3 WEEKS AND MAIL RESULTS CONGO. DESIRES RETURN
CONGO THEREAFTER FOR 2-3 DAYS CONCLUDE CONTRACT WITH GOC.
2. OUR INTENTIONS HANDLE, WAS HARVARD RESETTLEMENT CASE AND ISSUE
BACKSTOPPED GERMAN DOCS. AS FIRST PLOY WILL TELL HIM WE HAVE WORD
FROM VIENNA THAT OFFICIAL QUERY FROM CONGO HAS RESULTED IN DETERMINATION
HIS DOCS PHONEY AND THAT HE WOULD BE ARRESTED IMMEDIATELY UPON RETURN
CONGO. SECOND PLOY THAT EVEN ODYOKE ASSISTANCE COULD NOT FORESTALL
ARREST SINCE PERIOD HIS WORK FOR US ENDED SEPT 61 WE HAVE NO CHOICE
FOR HIS OWN PROTECTION KEEP HIS AUSTRIAN AND CONGOLESE DOCS.

14-00000
DATE
TO
FROM
360
23 MAY 62
DIRECTOR
LEOPOLDVILLE
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
ACTION: C/AF 3 (COPY ISSUED TO AF AT 1310 23 MAY)
INFO
ADDP, C/CI, CDC, C/EE 3, S/C 2
ROUTING
4
5
6
MAY 23 1640Z 62
PRIORITY
per CSN 43-43
PRITY FRAN DIR INFO PRITY FROB CITE LEOP 3955
RYBAT WIROGUE CABEZONE
REF A. FRAN 0495 (IN 39135)
B. FRAN 0502 (IN 39623)*
IN 39724
FYI: PARA 3 REF A, ROUND TRIP TICKETS PROVIDED BY GOC
FOR MEDICAL TRIP. REF B LINE ESSENTIALLY SAME AS TOLD LEOP.
2. WIROGUE PROBLEM SOLVABLE ONLY BY REMOVAL FROM SCENE IN
SUCH WAY HE CANNOT RETURN. RESETTLEMENT IF HIS BURN AND BLOW
TYPE SERVICES NOT NEEDED ELSEWHERE IS ONLY ANSWER LEOP CAN SUGGEST
WHICH HAS CHANCE OF AVOIDING FLAP.
END OF MESSAGE
C/S COMMENT: *REQUESTED ADVISE PROPER ACTION IN VIEW SUCCESSFUL ACQUISITION
WIROGUE DOCUMENTATION.

14-00000
DATE
TO
FROM
ACTION:
INFO
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
ROUTING
2
5
3
6
MAY 23 1247Z 62
DIRECTOR
FRANKFURT
C/AF 3 (COPY ISSUED TO AF CABLE DESK 0900, 23 MAY)
ADDP, C/CI, CDC, C/TSD 2, C/EE 3, S/C 2
PRITY DIR LEOP INFO FROB CITE FRAN 0582
RYBAT WIROGUE TECHS CABEZONE
REF. FRAN 0495 (IN 39135)
1. WIROGUE STATED HE ARRANGED WITH CONGOLESE DEFMIN COME
EUROPE ATTEMPT TRACE 30 MILLION FRANCS WHICH HAD BEEN GIVEN DEFM IN
OFFICIALS TO PURCHASE AIRPLANES. MONEY ALLEGEDLY DEPOSITED IN
SWISS BANKS AND THEN DISAPPEARED. SHOWED ORDER DE MISSION (NOW
IN OUR POSSESSION) DATED 17 MAY SIGNED BY SECGEN CONGOLESE FORNMIN.
W CLAIMED HE INTENDS COMPLETE ABOVE MISSION BUT REAL REASON HE IN
FRAN IS REESTABLISH CONTACT WITH "SERVICE" (OBVIOUSLY KUBARK WAS
MEANT).
2. FOLLOWING DOCUMENTS NOW IN OUR POSSESSION BUT, BECAUSE OF
CIRCUMSTANCES APPROACH, UNABLE OBTAIN AUSTRIAN BIRTH CERTIFICATE
AND DRIVER'S LICENSE WHICH GIVEN W BY MXTOPAZ AT TIME HIS PASSPORT
RECEIVED:
A. PASSPORT (AUSTRIAN) 090058
B. RETURN SABENA AIR TICKET 8095473 TO LEOP
C. CONGO DRIVER'S PERMIT
D. CARTE D'IDENTITE D'ETRANGER
E. PASS FROM DEFMIN/CONGO RE TECHNICIAN STATUS (CIVILIAN)

14-00000
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
PAGE 2
F. HEALTH CERTIFICATE
G. LAISSEZ PASSER 71-58 (CONGO PASS FROM LEOPOLDVILLE TO
BRAZZAVILLE
H. LAISSEZ PASSER AS MAJOR, CONGO, ARMY
I. UN PASS (ACCESS TO ROYAL HOTEL, LEOP)
J. CONGO CERTIFICATE OF VACCINATION
K. ORDER DE MISSION (17 MAY 62) BY SECGEN FORNMIN
L. ORDER DE MISSION TO BRAZZAVILLE TO APPREHEND A MAN SIGNED
BY JOSEPH MATUBA, 26 MAR 62
M. ATTESTATION HE IS ATTACHE (TECHNICIAN) CONGO ARMY BY
M. KABONGO, SECGEN DEFMIN, 28 DEC 61.
3. AS STATED REF RAPPORT NOW EXCELLENT BUT ANTICIPATE SERIOUS
TROUBLE WHEN W TOLD WE WILL NOT RETURN DOCS. HE ADAMANT HIS
REFUSAL REMAIN GERMANY. SAYS CANNOT RETURN FRANCE BECAUSE OF
ARMED ROBBERY CHARGE. WILLING ACCEPT ANY KUBARK ASSIGNMENT ANY
PLACE IN WORLD INCLUDING FJSTEAL.
4. WE HAVE CA 48 HOURS COMPLETE ACTION BEFORE W BECOMES A
SERIOUS HANDLING PROBLEM. FLAP POTENTIAL VERY HIGH AND W
KNOWLEDGEABILITY COULD BE EXTREMELY DAMAGING SHOULD HE DECIDE
MAKE PUBLIC HIS RELATIONSHIP WITH KUBARK. PLS ADVISE PROPER ACTION
IN VIEW SUCCESSFUL ACQUISITION W DOCUMENTATION.
END OF MESSAGE
C/S COMMENT: *ACTION UNIT DETERMINED AS THOUGH INDICATOR ZIBET USED.
**WIROGUE ARRIVED FRAN 1400 22 JAN.

14-00000
ORIG
UNIT
EXT
DATE
TO
FROM:
CONF:
INFO :
TO
INFO
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
PAGE 2
ROUTING
4
5
6
CITE DIR
DEFERRED
ROUTINE
OUT 85674
CONTRARY REF SUBJECT RETURN CONGO NOT RPT NOT IN VIO-
LATION TERMINATION AGREEMENT. DID NOT DISREGARD PROMISE LAST
SENTENCE PARA 2.
END OF MESSAGE
14-00000
UNIT
EXT
DATE
TO
FROM
CONF:
INFO:
TO
INFO
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
ROUTING
4
5
6
CITE DIR
DEFERRED
ROUTINE

1. BACKGROUND INFO SUBJECT: BORN 20 DECEMBER 1919 TIFLIS, USSR. ATGRATED
WITH PARENTS TO FRANCE 1921. MARRIED PARIS 1948, TWO CHILDREN, DIVORCED 1950.
COMMITTED NU FEROUS CRIMES, CONVICTED LAST OF BANK ROBBERY FRANCE JANUARY 1953.
RELEASED FROM PRISON DECEMBER 1955 ON PAROLE TO RESIDE ONLY HAUTES ALPES DEPT
FRANCE. CONTACTED BY AFFADDLE ON SPOTTING MISSION IN EARLY 1958, INTERVIEWED
GIVEN AEASPIC CRYPT, POA SEPT
OCTOBER 1958, AS RESULT SLATED FOR REDSOX PROJECT.
1959, BROUGHT BLACK TO FERIE APRIL 1957. AFTER EXTENSIVE PH TIG, REDSOX MISSION
POSTPONED, THEN CANCELLED ON JUNE 1960. GIVEN IN TAC FOR TRANSFER TO ANOTHER
PLANS CANCELLED AND TRANS-
COPOET. AUGUST 1960 ARRANGED TO RESETTLE IN MEXICO.
FERRED TO AF DIV OCTOBER 1960. CRYPT CHANGED TO WIROGUE. FLOA! BLACK TO FRAN
NOVEMBER 1960, FURNISHED AUSTRIA PASSFORT, DRIVERS LICENSE, BIRTH CERTIFICATE.
O ROM FRANTO LOOP DECER 1960 FOR EN OPS ASSIGNMENT. DECAME ADVISOR
TO COM A BIT RESULT OF SECURITY AND FINANCIAL TROUBLE WAS ORDERED HÄSTURNED TO
PUNGE. RETURNED PAPREE JULY 1941 AND SERVICES TERLIHATED & SEPEATER 1951 AT
FRA. PURED CODO, VIA AZZAVILLE IN VIOLATION OF TERMINATION AGREEMENT.
AGAIN TOOK UP WITH CAR; FROQUSMID LEOP STATION IN EFFORT REVIVE KUMARK ASSOCIATION.
COORDINATING OFFICERS
RELEASING OFFICER
SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
Copy No.

14-00000
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
PAGE TWO
INFO
ROUTING
1
2
5
3
6
SUBJECT DESCRIBED AS EXTREMELY HARD TO CONTROL, SOLELY OUT FOR HIMSELF,
POSSESSING SOCIAL SKILL AND ABILITY TO GET AWAY WITH GRATIFYING HIS OWN DESIRES
IRRESPECTIVE OF OTHERS FEELINGS. REQUIRES AN UNUSUALLY COMPETENT, ALERT, STRICT,
EVEN AUTHORITARIAN CASE OFFICER; HAS ABOVE AVERAGE MOD AND HAS, BY HIS RETURN TO
CONGO, SHOR DISREGARD FOR PROMISES MADE.
3. VIEW ADOVE, MAY REFUSE RELINQUISH DOCUMENTS. FRAN SHOULD ATTEMPT TO LEARN
DESIRES. RESETTLEMENT WITHOUT PROVISING HIM ANYTHING FOR THE MOMENT. MAY SUGGEST
POSSIBILITIES MENTIONED DIR 10710 (OUT 83494) AS WORKABLE ALTERNATE DOCUMENTATION
BUT INDICATE THAT, ALTHOUGH KUBARK ONES HIM NOTHING, WE RECOGNIZE HE I! PERSONAL
DANGER IN COMO AND MAY BE ABLE ASSIST. ALSO POINT OUT THAT HE HAS BEEN EAGER
RETURN EUROFF AND ONCE BACK THERE HE SHOULD REMAIN. KUBARK CANHOT SAVE HIS NECK
IF CONGO INVESTIGATION RESULTS DAMI NIM.
PLEASE ADVISE PROCRESS. FROE MAY HAVE ADDITIONAL BACKGROUND FROM PREVIOUS
SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy No.

14-00000
DATE
TO
FROM
ACTION
INFO
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
ROUTING
1
2
5
3
6
MAY 22 18512 62.
DIRECTOR
FRANKFURT
C/AF 3 (AF CABLE DESK NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED 1450, 22 MAY)
ADOP, C/CI, CDC, C/EE 3, S/C.
OPERATI CHAL IMEDIATE
IN 39135
OPIM DIR LEOP INFO ROB CIPRIANT 499
RYBAT WIROGUE CADEZONE
REF
TRAN 0404
B. DIR 11029
(37347)
(OUT 83997)
1. WIROGUE ARRIVED FRAN. 1496 22 JAN. MET BY STEPHAN R. LACKLEN
WHO POSED AS ADMIN OFFICER INTERESTED IN DETERMINING REASON FOR
TRAVEL GERMANY, W SAID HE HERE ON OFFICIAL BUSINESS CONGOLESE
GOVT AND HAD DOCUMENTATION. TO PROVE IT. W NOW IN BLOWN CABEZONE
SAFE HOUSE.
2. LACKLEN ABLE ACQUIRE PASSPORT AND ALL OTHER DOCUMENTATION,
EXCEPT BIRTH CERTIFICATE AND AUSTRIAN DRIVER'S LICENSE, UNDER
PRETEXT NEED PHOTOGRAPH. RAPPORT EXCELLENT BUT ANTICIPATE
SERIOUS PROBLEM WHEN W TOLD WE WILL NOT RETURN.DOCS.
3. W INTERESTED REMAIN IN CLANDESTINE WORK BUT STATED UNWILLING-
NESS REMAIN GERMANY. ABSOLUTELY NO COMMITMENTS MADE TO V. AIR
TICKET CIN OUR POSSESSION) IS ROUND-TRIP LEOP-FRAN-LEOP. INTENDS
RETURN LEOP AFTER COMPLETION OF MISSION.
4. DETAILS RE ABOVE INFO FOLLOWS.

14-00000
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
PAGE
ROUTING
1
2
5
3
6
IN 39135
FRAN 0495
INFO
C/S COMMENT ACTION UNIT DETERMINED AS THOUGH INDICATOR ZIBET USED.
**HQS SUGGESTED WIROGUE BE INFORMED