RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Document Number 128-988

for FOIA Review on SEP 1976

FORM 610 SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL UNCLASSIFIED

13-00000
UNCLASSIFIED INTERNAL
USE ONLY CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM: Chief Far East Division
TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)

EXTENSION NO.
DATE 20 Nov. 68
DATE 26 Nov 68

OFFICER'S INITIALS

RECEIVED 27 NOV 1968
FORWARDED 26 Nov 68

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

1. Please assign IP/AN
2. IP/EDI XAAZ-35926
3. Chief CI Staff
4. Sur. Darley
5. 05 May 15
6. G for file
7. 18/Files
8. HP/RMS
9. Not until day
10. Correspondence between CIA and ASIO
11. Re: release of information by Warren Commission. (CD971 NDT OH).
12. Date: 2 Nov 68
13. Salget.
14. clarifs to
15. CD 971

FORM 610 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS
SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL USE ONLY UNCLASSIFIED

Executive Registry
20 NOV 1968

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence
VIA: Deputy Director for Plans

SUBJECT: Letter for Director from Sir Charles Spry (ASIO)

1. Attached is a sealed letter from Sir Charles Spry, Director General of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation (who provided a copy of the letter to the Chief of Station, Melbourne), and a suggested reply for your signature.

2. Sir Charles' letter to you recommends against declassification of the Warren Commission document CD-971, which refers to our investigation of anonymous telephone calls to the Canberra Embassy before and after the assassination of President Kennedy.

3. I consider the points made by Sir Charles in his letter to be valid and accordingly recommend against the declassification of CD-971 in the foreseeable future. Staff concurs with this recommendation.

William E. Nelson
Chief, Far East Division

Attachments:

A. Letter from Sir Charles Spry
B. Letter Replying to Sir Charles Spry
C. FA/FA 5898, subject: Declassification of Warren Commission Document CD-971-
D. Copy of CD-971-
E. FA/HW 3636, subject: Request for Release of Warren Commission Document

DDP/FE/PMI/AN: Amos Taylor; Jrl:arc (19 November 1968)

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee
1 - DDCI
2 - DDP
1 - ADDP

1 - C/CI Staff
1 - CFE
1 - CFE/PMI 26 Nov 68
1 - CFE/PMI/AN
