104-10069-10359

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional):
Current Address of Maurice Halperin

FROM:
Chief, Contact Division (Support) Stuntz
EXTENSION: 2268
DATE: 31 DEC 62

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)

1. TFW/ Registry Krages 66-2702
2. SR/CI
3. CI/LN WH 729
4. Security WH-729

OFFICER'S INITIALS: Soon Hallen, Hoff, Trwy Jany Sv
RECEIVED FORWARDED

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment)

I am sending this to the following:
(1) TFW
(2) SR/CI
(3) CI/LN
(4) Security

Mayo Stuntz

5. C/Contact (hand dropped) Stuntz
6.
7. Take this hart Come sheet in WH729
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.

FORM 3-62.
610.
USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

WH-729

CONFIDENTIAL ☐
INTERNAL USE ONLY ☐ UNCLASSIFIED

# 09254

---

SECRET

Subject: Current Address of Maurice Halperin
004(3) 3246933
WSYRO
8060
27 December 1962

Preston & James
342 Huntington B Crouse Hall
Syracuse University

1. A source of this office has just advised us that he received a Christmas card (1962) from Maurice Halperin on which the return address was given as: "Apt C-2, Calle, no 103, Miramar, Habana, Cuba." The only message on the card was one of Christmas greetings. Halperin and our source have known each other for a number of years and they always exchange Christmas cards. This is the first one Halperin has sent with a Cuban address on it. The last time that our source saw Halperin was in Moscow when he (the former) was visiting in the USSR during August-September 1961 as part of an official US delegation.

2. In view of Halperin's past activities and associations, we are making this information known to you. Our source comments that Halperin always seems to show up wherever there is some sort of activity going on.

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY
SECRET
Excludes automatic
WH-129
