14-00000

104-10241-10250 [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

Inactive

Charles.

2. 07215763 Prg, Mickey that Gerdes, Micky that Gerdes
heri
Sa Pork Cheraton Hotel, Por You, and that he fod foleshared le
Macs her had town
to th
For to be his patch of com
shit. Recording to Km. Hote
Charles bai eta ma Flea Parilent fem,
(a),,as, Chorios en
Pete
to
tort
of sted the
the Hattian Pick ya da kos te smey to on to fy lead to talk to
Charles end fit (A to tommy M. Chris mei Lih
English calare regiral
YCH. Kra. Nach bred that carrier to able to cotain a Fri
Mingles ran in Azur, Comm's Holendi cot to us
intelligence officer. Eidal that some felt,
Office, the baklda Jassing valdecepty
the try they came
Tor
t
Poleg would get the resentative (Cophies) es the
% te qarted that CL Dilm
kir. Tayar in d
of his back in Haiti. Chis, aking to Bryer, fly D
political abu virs of the current political stacka in
Mitt, Charles now this (256 1b may xe try to pro. Dryer
deserted well-mate, pratically and ally, on
Inth rises of the force in a to thos & con frascal or Pauliaurės
Darallar. Deyir hnd gives Chardea Astara of tubactics to fontos
Resting to 382 (Als in Kuchingben. Conses unted to 409
President Mary and del to the Kvita floute to auto
Ecuð sucretury cai invited to dizer a corffing kita the copota
CMF 110273.

14-00000
C: Cumpa Teorya CHO
country. D.
ing
5.
1 đêm tudag triglased to cates that to ba
hour in the gates (ng a Cha
estainal bat
einal tint ha ve tr
ing the
b's bad.
to
murival, coitos of Un batera feed
(1. Untuel), ( Division, and the Int
6. -03 6 807 63 Mita Diomis,, elniced that EU
Mvision wicked to rpath to Chies on tong
on ampodisizont. n. May 273 to
adrien that he had fut rahol a t
Paloh eshing essina cobry hold som
in
Washington, the being tall fist what a telpas of Quin
Ingresations, Now. Natura stated that chambl doch min the
State Departmetonal Coffest deteries Patch Morals 1771
eats. Mr. Shally mob mamiimmɔ et the
Alban Tour. A check with log stand that is bad extIZE
for them to frot 25 Waga ta tiɔ bly of the Hillard
telah, D. C., 18:00 monts to mich.
12. Intech that offering 9, 7123, a
call tha tia to fim. His to coins Out Chies world to in
Rington on that day end that or
moting with gasents
feel that
that previous evading to
bad from mla for a pa
for 1200 m. No. Halk
225 And had called
..ndlocks CA [Q A7 tamad ant b
working at credito s
ACDI to meet Charles et inch ent
for her to with Comhar
se patat af et vita Casio
is that 61 #7:21 roi të malitio
et y car Mara kw
ChE
at 13 Vizion
[
mod that
of the conillet cal pardon the aptit
resentative lies and
thy. Itleck aftrial to ufiber hands
Rentativa Cooling the offer call regate that a thuating later in
the aftercombe ha. Rundt talieved thrâ dos to come
tractors, the had been used a train tho
eftantini frua séich alia could not condhandy tzthdate and requoctus
that comune attsugary bar..
CONFICRNITIAL

14-00000
7. X, Na
,, t
motional
fa 1207 an
Nem at the to Cunha c
8.
tinha rarmer with into a c
th Charles end ranchi mamions to artunço
nest withou
Charles a mating in
th
* Gown would tho
and I Courted cat Charts
9. In the course of the damn nemotion, Carlas had
mentioned to me that haired to see a finis, ADD, to
Clam Cald to that, tluck colles to
tiste that the called the State D toacasazlog?
request. fr. () is niet toe en tho
Fation or
to the
Cremant steall be in eal eis itch Ca
price to in cites to the PCs, to toe
boom male ta cerem scale, na percent, to
to intent are
they
tal my interest in Chathild (state fir
Cities.
reauls of the Church, the
Sinther plans to content. Hilack thich our deben
end to and tea
Bank bed ta
that X tuliomal to thank disquence
(opsies na grarefully es poɛ1439.

14-00000
L
11.
…ཞ-བ
..
11 on 7 May to
this (2
had died (1)
tɔ beleza ruk
ná hy jolas en led to chata that LXII vos ensdstoly
Add to the way that
e of
I
bumilal
Pra, Mablack thing that the Qpandimal
position in the cat
plus to the rural potat
to her that the man was on the claim,
the fit of el ta premi eles
to greformed to
Nach that a
el bon rail to the chance of s
Plantly retired ca am to Egalis call the lates
estherm.
of the cinta that the
xsment cheati
aims to "play th1" 4h Chablica ta a énigme cosas da Daftion
stributions
Irig – 0/Cbizt
1 Now You C
1 - Report (Cats).
1 A Branch
"
Winters (Ctrl).
1 - Dog/Cell cham
