14-00000

104-10106-10300 { 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

Yurily Ivanovich NOSENKO

IDENTIFICATION: NOSENKO, Yurily Ivanovich, a Soviet
KGB officer who defected in 1964 and
was subsequently involuntarily con-
fined in the U.S. by the Agency for
a period of approximately three years.

BACKGROUND: NOSENKO first contacted Agency per-
sonnel in Switzerland in June 1962
and subsequently defected in January
1964. NOSENKO was brought to the U.S.
and after a period of relative freedom
he was involuntarily confined in
April 1964. From April 1964 to
August 1965, he was confined at an
Agency controlled site in Clinton,
Maryland. From August 1965 to
October 1967, NOSENKO was confined
at Camp Peary, Virginia. In October
1967, he was returned to the Washington
area, given increasing amounts of
freedom until he was given total free-
dom in April 1969. NOSENKO became a
U.S. citizen in April 1974. NOSENKO
was employed by the Agency as a
consultant in March 1969 and continues
under contract to date. His present
salary is $23,500 per year.

APPROVAL: (1) The legal basis to confine NOSENKO
against his will was discussed by
Mr. Richard Helms, DD/P, and others with
the Deputy Attorney General on 2 April
1964 (Tab 1). On 3 April 1964, the
Agency General Counsel, Mr. Lawrence
Houston, advised the Director of Security
by memorandum that such confinement was
proper (Tab 2).

(2) There are a series of letters from
the DDCI, DCI and others to various
agencies, including the Department of
Justice and the White House, covering
the period 1964 to 1969, evidencing
awareness of these agencies of the
NOSENKO affair (Tab 3).

(3) The conditions of NOSENKO's confine-
ment were established by the Office of
Security (Tabs 4 & 5).

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

RESULTS

TERMINATION

COMMENTS

By memorandum dated 2 October 1968,
the Director of Security forwarded
two reports to the DDCI summarizing
the results of the NOSENKO case to
that date. The reports are voluminous.
One was prepared by the Office of
Security and the other by the FBI.
Both reports conclude that NOSENKO
was a bona fide defector. A draft
memorandum attached to this file,
dated 21 October 1968 and prepared
by the CI Staff, raises question
regarding NOSENKO's bona fides
and challenges the above two reports.

NOSENKO continues under contract to
the Agency. He is brought to Washington
periodically to consult on matters
germane to his background and experience.
Various reports are available in the
files of the Office of Security which
detail financial aspects of this case.

No final accounting has been made since
the project continues.

(1) While the Office of Security files
do document the rationale for the original
confinement of NOSENKO, they do not
document the rationale for his continued
confinement over so long a period of time.
A memorandum dated 5 August 1969 states
that various congressional staff officers
were briefed on NOSENKO and states that
concern for his safety, as well as con-
cern regarding his bona fides, prompted
the prolonged confinement. (See Tab 6)

(2) Office of Security files document
a period in 1969 during which a mail
cover was placed on NOSENKO.

(3) During the above period, NOSENKO
was allowed a pleasure trip to Florida.
During this trip, Agency personnel, with
apparent Headquarters approval, obtained
the services of prostitutes. This
apparently occurred on at least two
occasions.

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

FILES:

Office of Security files on NOSENKO
are maintained in the following
locations:

OS/SSD (Contact - Mr. Charles Phalen)

OS/SAG (Contact - Mr. Bruce Solie)

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000

2 April 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD

SUBJECT: Discussion with Deputy Attorney General on Nosenko Case

1. Mr. Helms, Mr. Houston and Mr. Murphy met with
the Deputy Attorney General and members of his staff to
discuss subject case. Present from Mr. Katzenbach's
staff were Messrs. Foley, Yeagley and Reis.

2. Mr. Helms explained the Nosenko case briefly
and indicated that shortly we would be faced with what
we at least considered to be two problems on which we
would like the advice of the Department of Justice.
First, we would soon feel compelled to begin hostile
interrogation of Nosenko in order to arrive at the truth
with respect to his mission for the KGB and we wondered
what the legal position would be in circumstances in
which we detained Nosenko against his will for this pur-
pose. Second, we would have to be ready after determin-
ing that we could obtain no additional information from
Nosenko to deport him. We had thought of taking him to
Germany and transferring him to Soviet custody in Berlin
where this has been done a number of times in the past.

3. There was some discussion of whether deportation
to another country might be a consideration. Mr. Helms
explained we would probably face publicity problems in
deporting to a third country of the kind we would en-
counter if he were free in the U. S. Mr. Helms noted
there were many items of information which we and the
FBI realize are of no significance because of the file
holdings we have but which an unscrupulous newspaper man
could use to create mischief. This aspect was then dropped
and it was the consensus that Berlin was probably the best
place.

4. The question of the basis for detention was again
raised and related by Mr. Foley to the conditions under
which Nosenko is in this country. He is here as an "ex-
clusion and parole case" which means he has not been
admitted and has been paroled to the Agency which is
responsible for him while he is in this country. This

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000

parole can be interpreted to mean parole to a specific
locale which would provide some justification for our
detaining him for questioning. It was then pointed out,
however, that if he said he wished to leave the country
to return to the Soviet Union, technically we would not
be able to detain him further. In this event, we would
be faced with the need to deport him quickly and quietly
and for this purpose the immigration warrant of arrest
and deportation was probably the best instrument.

5. Mr. Katzenbach asked Mr. Foley to check into
this and Mr. Foley will in turn contact Mr. Houston.
Mr. Houston will in turn discuss the problem with CIA
Office of Security officials to get the background of
their liaison with the INS on these matters.

6. Mr. Helms thanked Mr. Katzenbach for his assistance
and we departed amid some jovial banter with respect to
"The Spy Who Came in From the Cold" about what we expected
to happen to him when he started to climb over that "wall"
in Berlin.

David E. Murphy
Chief, SR Division

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000

3 April 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Security

SUBJECT: Parole Status of Defectors

OGC 64-0903

1. On 2 April 1964 we had a discussion with the Department
of Justice on the status of aliens whose inspection by I&NS is deferred
upon arrival at our request and who are then paroled to this Agency.
It was the position of the Department of Justice that we were responsible
for taking any action necessary to carry out the terms of the parole.

2. As you know, a basic parole agreement was executed by the
Attorney General and the DCI on 10 February 1955. After setting up
conditions for authorizing parole in any one case, the agreement states:
"After parole of such aliens, the Central Intelligence Agency will assume
responsibility for care, supervision and control of a kind and degree it
believes consistent with the internal security needs of the United States
during continuance of their parole status." This means that the
responsible Agency officials must take the minimum action necessary
to protect the internal security needs of the United States. The word
"minimum" is not necessarily a limitation. It merely means that good
judgment must be used as to what kind and degree of action is necessary.

3. The agreement further provides that upon completion of the
parolee's intelligence or operational purposes in the United States or if
internal security reasons so require, the alien will be removed from
this country through arrangements made by the Agency and, in such
case, the Agency will inform the Service in advance of each proposed
departure.

LAWRENCE R. HOUSTON
General Counsel

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000

(January 1975

SUBJECT: Yuriy Ivanovich NOSENKO

1. Information that NOSENKO had defected and was in the United
States in February 1964 was known to appropriate agencies and articles
had appeared in the public media.

2. NOSENKO was in the United States under an I&NS parole as
the responsibility of CIA. The FBI was fully advised of the presence of
NOSENKO in the United States and interviewed NOSENKO on several
occasions in March 1964. The United States Intelligence Board was
also formally advised on 12 February 1964 concerning the defection of
NOSENKO. On 14 February 1964, NOSENKO was interviewed by Soviet
officials in the presence of I&NS and State Department
officials and NOSENKO reaffirmed his previous request for asylum in
the United States.

--- Page 10 ---

14-00000

8 OCT 1969

Mr. Raymond F. Farrell
Commissioner of Immigration
and Naturalization
Department of Justice
Washington, D.C.

Dear Mr. Farrell:

SUBJECT: Yuriy Ivanovich NOSENKO

Pursuant to the authority granted under Section 7 of
the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949, as amended,
I approve and recommend for your approval the entrance
of subject into the United States for permanent residence
since his entry is in the interest of the national security
and essential to the furtherance of the national intelligence
mission. In accordance with previous correspondence in
Section 7 cases, it is understood that you will present this
matter to the Attorney General for his approval.

Since his defection in February 1964, the subject has
provided valuable information to this Agency and he will
continue to be of value in the future.

Subject has been investigated abroad and here over a
period of five years and has submitted to a technical inter-
rogation. The question of bona fides is a continuing one and
should any information be developed definitely disproving his
bona fides, it shall be made available to your Service and the
Attorney General.

--- Page 11 ---

14-00000

Howard L. Osborn
Director of Security

--- Page 12 ---

14-00000

Yuriy Ivanovich NOSENKO (Aka: Yuri NOSSENKO)

30 October 1927 Nicolayev, Ukraine, USSR

Male Divorced

Soviet Caucasian

Brown Blue/Gray 5ft. 11 inches

--- Page 13 ---

14-00000

1943-1954 - Member Komsomol, USSR

1955 - Member Communist Party, USSR

--- Page 14 ---

14-00000

Mr. Raymond F. Farrell
Commissioner of Immigration
and Naturalization
Department of Justice
Washington, D.C.

Attention: Mr. E. Bartos

SUBJECT: Yuriy Ivanovich NOSSENKO

Reference is made to previous correspondence
in this case.

Subject continues to be of operational interest
to this Agency. Therefore, it is requested subject's
parole to this Agency be extended for an additional
period of six (6) months beyond the expiration date of
his stay of 16 August 1969.

Your cooperation in this matter is very much ap-
preciated.

Sincerely,

Victor R. White
Deputy Director of Security
(Investigations and Operational Support)

16 July 1969

--- Page 15 ---

14-00000

13 February 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. McGeorge Bundy

SUBJECT: Yuri Ivanovich NOSENKO

1. This memorandum refers to the State Department
release of 10 February on subject case and provides addi-
tional background as well as information on his current
status.

2. As a KGB staff officer, NOSENKO is regularly
assigned to the Counterintelligence Directorate of the
KGB in Moscow but was included in the Soviet delegation
to the Disarmament Conference as part of a cover arrange-
ment which permitted him to carry out intelligence and
security functions in Geneva on behalf of the KGB.

3. NOSENKO also attended various sessions of the
Disarmament Conference held in Geneva in 1962. During
the course of these sessions NOSENKO sought contact with
officials of the U. S. Government, informed these officials
that he was affiliated with the Soviet State Security ap-
paratus and volunteered to aid the U. S. Government in
detecting Soviet subversive activity directed against the
U. S. Government. During the course of his contact with
U. S. authorities NOSENKO stated that his cooperation with
the U. S. Government originated with his distaste and hatred
for the Soviet regime in general, with his desire to obtain
revenge for the unjust death of his father, a senior official
in the Soviet shipbuilding industry, and with the general
admiration of the Americans with whom he had come in con-
tact within the Soviet Union.

4. In late January 1964, NOSENKO arrived in Geneva,
again masquerading as a member of the Soviet delegation
to the Disarmament Conference. Subject secretly notified
his CIA contacts in the United States concerning his pres-
ence in Geneva and arranged to meet with these contacts.
During a series of meetings NOSENKO provided information
including documents concerning Soviet State Security acti-
vities within the USSR and abroad and a detailed account
of the KGB operation against U. S. Professor Barghoorn
which NOSENKO said he had personally supervised at the
direction of SEMICHASTNIY, the Chairman of the Committee
for State Security (KGB).

--- Page 17 ---

14-00000

5. During these most recent meetings NOSENKO announced
his desire to leave the USSR permanently and seek his future
in the West. He claimed his new work in the KGB (First
Deputy Chief of that department charged with the surveillance
and recruitment of American visitors to the USSR) was ex-
panding and that he would not be able to visit the West
with any frequency. Accordingly, he prepared a request for
political asylum in the United States. He was taken to
Frankfurt, Germany where he is currently undergoing interro-
gation. Plans are now being made to remove him to the U. S.

6. It should be noted that CIA contact with Subject
has not been extensive and that we will require additional
thorough interrogation to establish Subject's bona fides.
It should also be noted that NOSENKO's duties were not con-
cerned with substantive aspects of the Disarmament Conference,
and he therefore is not expected to be able to shed much, if
any, light on that area of our interest.

7. The possibility that NOSENKO's defection was de-
signed to wreck the conference was most carefully considered.
The decision to accept him was taken on the conviction that
the Soviets would not have chosen such a vulnerable agent
(staff officer of the KGB) for this kind of move.

Thomas H. Karamessines
Acting Deputy Director for Plans

--- Page 18 ---

14-00000

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
OFFICE OF DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE

12 February 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: United States Intelligence Board Members

SUBJECT: Yuri Ivanovich NOSENKO

1. This memorandum refers to the State Department
release of 10 February on subject case and provides addi-
tional background as well as information on his current
status.

2. As a KGB staff officer, NOSENKO is regularly
assigned to the Counterintelligence Directorate of the
KGB in Moscow but was included in the Soviet delegation
to the Disarmament Conference as part of a cover arrange-
ment which permitted him to carry out intelligence and
security functions in Geneva on behalf of the KGB.

3. NOSENKO also attended various sessions of the
Disarmament Conference held in Geneva in 1962. During the
course of these sessions, NOSENKO sought contact with
officials of the U. S. Government, informed these officials
that he was affiliated with the Soviet State Security ap-
paratus and volunteered to aid the U. S. Government in
detecting Soviet subversive activity directed against the
U. S. Government. During the course of his contact with
U. S. authorities, NOSENKO stated that his cooperation with
the U. S. Government originated with his distaste and hatred
for the Soviet regime in general, with his desire to obtain
revenge for the unjust death of his father, a senior official
in the Soviet shipbuilding industry, and with the general
admiration of the Americans with whom he had come in con-
tact within the Soviet Union.

4. In late January 1964, NOSENKO arrived in Geneva,
again masquerading as a member of the Soviet delegation
to the Disarmament Conference. Subject secretly notified
his CIA contacts in the United States concerning his pres-
ence in Geneva and arranged to meet with these contacts.
During a series of meetings NOSENKO provided information
including documents concerning Soviet State Security acti-
vities within the USSR and abroad and a detailed account

--- Page 19 ---

14-00000

of the KGB operation against U. S. Professor Barghoorn
which NOSENKO said he had personally supervised at the
direction of SEMICHASTNIY, the Chairman of the Committee
for State Security (KGB).

5. During these most recent meetings NOSENKO announced
his desire to leave the USSR permanently and seek his future
in the West. He claimed his new work in the KGB (First
Deputy Chief of that department charged with the surveillance
and recruitment of American visitors to the USSR) was ex-
panding and that he would not be able to visit the West
with any frequency. Accordingly, he prepared a request for
political asylum in the United States. He was taken to
Frankfurt, Germany where he is currently undergoing interro-
gation. Plans are now being made to remove him to the U. S.

6. It should be noted that CIA contact with Subject
has not been extensive and that we will require additional
thorough interrogation to establish Subject's bona fides.
It should also be noted that NOSENKO's duties were not con-
cerned with substantive aspects of the Disarmament Conference,
and he therefore is not expected to be able to shed much, if
any, light on that area of our interest.

7. The possibility that NOSENKO's defection was de-
signed to wreck the conference was most carefully considered.
The decision to accept him was taken on the conviction that
the Soviets would not have chosen such a vulnerable agent
(staff officer of the KGB) for this kind of move.

Marshall S. Carter
Lieutenant General, USA
Deputy Director

--- Page 20 ---

14-00000

Nosenko's Account Disputes Charge by Soviet

BY TAD SZULC
Special to New York Times

WASHINGTON, Feb

Yuri Nosenko told a Soviet
Embassy official at their con-
frontation here last Friday that
he left Switzerland on the way
to the United States 28 hours
before his defection was re-
ported by the Russians to the
Swiss authorities.

This statement by the former
staff officer of the Soviet Com-
mittee of State Security, the
secret police appeared to amount
to a denial of the Soviet charge
that the Swiss authorities had
been negligent in preventing his
defection.

Mr. Nosenko, who quit as a
member of the Soviet delegation
to the Geneva disarmament con-
ference Feb was allowed to
meet with Soviet diplomat
here in the presence of United
States officials.

The State Department an-
nounced at the time that the
confrontation was taking place
in Washington at the request of
the Soviet Embassy, but no
other details were made public.
The department said that al-

Defection Preceded Report to Swiss Police Apparently Ruling Out Negligence

Service Officials of the State
Department, the Central In-
telligence Agency and the
Immigration and Naturalization
Service were also present.

Mr. Nosenko was described as
having been completely relaxed
during the interview.

He is understood to have told
the Soviet diplomat during their
businesslike conference that he
defected of his own volition
without any outside pressures.

His statements, it was report-
ed, did not allay Soviet resent-
ment against Swiss authorities.
Swiss diplomat had be-
mitted to talk sepa-
Mr. Nosenko
today has thrown
on the defection
The Soviet delegation in
Geneva: it was reported told
the Swiss police at 5 P.M. Feb.
5 that Mr. Nosenko was miss-
ing. But Mr. Nosenko's state-
ments in the presence of the
Soviet Embassy official are said
to have shown that his actual
defection took place at 1 P.M.
the preceding day.

The meeting between Mr.
Nosenko and the Soviet Em-
bassy official took place in the
headquarters of the Washing-
ton field office of the Im-
migration and Naturalization

Diplomatic reports reaching the
State Department said that So-
viet diplomats in foreign capi-
tals continued to register com-
plaints about alleged negligence
after Mr. Nosenko's conference
with the Soviet diplomat.

--- Page 21 ---

14-00000

U.S. Lets Swiss
And Red Envoys
Talk to Defector
Nosenko Again
Voices Desire
For Asylum
By Chalmers M. Roberts
Staff Reporter

Soviet secret police de-
fector Yuri I. Nosenko
in the United States where
he was interviewed yester-
day by officials of both the
Russian and Swiss Em-
bassies.

The State Department said
each interview lasted less than
an hour and that a Department
official was present each time.
Nosenko reaffirmed his earlier
request for asylum in the
United States and it will be
granted.

State Department spokesman
Richard I. Phillips, in giving
out this information, declined
to say where the interviews
took place or to give any de-
tails. Earlier he had said it
was possible that newsmen
here will be allowed to talk
with Nosenko.

Soviet Kicks up Fuss

These developments came
as the Soviet Union kicked up
a diplomatic fuss over the dis-
appearance of Nosenko on
Feb. 4, from Geneva, where
he had been assigned as an
"expert" in the Soviet delega-
tion at the 17-nation disarma-
ment conference. Phillips
said he was "on temporary
duty from KGB (secret po-
lice) headquarters in Mos-
cow."

Up to yesterday Moscow
had been directing its public
diplomatic wrath at the
Swiss, charging them with
loose security. The provision
for a Swiss diplomat to inter-
view Nosenko was to assure
the Swiss that the United
States had taken part in no
illegal act on their soil.

The Swiss already had
strongly rejected the Soviet
charges.

On Wednesday, Phillips re-

See DEFECTOR, A5, Col. 1

--- Page 22 ---

14-00000

See Defector

ported yesterday a Soviet
Embassy messenger brought a
message to the State Depart-
ment asking for information
as to the manner in which
Nosenko presented him-
self to the U.S. authorities
and requested an opportunity
to interview him.

The Department agreed to the inter-
view with American officials
and said Nosenko gave an
"agreeable reply" to the Soviet Embassy.
The defection also was
made known in Moscow.

Also on Wednesday, in Gen-
eva Soviet disarmament dele-
gate Semyon Tsarapkin
gave newsmen an angry state-
ment aimed at the Swiss and
charging provocative activi-
ties by unspecified Western
agents. Up to then Tsarapkin
had been saying both private-
ly and publicly, that the No-
senko defection would not af-
fect the disarmament talks.

Yesterday the Soviets stepped
up their protest in two places,
Moscow and Geneva. At some
so far unspecified date Nosenko, who had ap-
parently crossed from Switzer-
land to France was flown to
the United States. It is as-
sumed here that he was
fish that only the Cent
cy the norm
de-
folie
were
that he wa
secrets
arly big
tomic
knew any
let disarma-
Rather they ere had been no
sa KGB staff offi
thing
iment:
said,
trategy
tigh
word up
man operating last night of the defection on
Soviet practice, in the Soviet radio or in the
compartment That press thoug
would
would have reports had spread through
useful and perhaps important the capital?
knowledge of part of the KGB It was felt here that Moscow
but probably not much more. might have stepped up its
Believed Genuine
protest after Tsarapkin had
publicly downgraded the case
It is assumed here that the in Geneva. At any rate U.S.
36-year-old Nosenko is a gen-disarmament negotiator Wil-
uine defector though the pos-liam C. Foster and Tsarapkin
sibility of his being a double held another business session
agent has not been overlook in Geneva yesterday at which
ed. It also is felt here that they said the case was not dis-
the Soviet protest was no cussed.
stronger than could be ex-It also was noted here that
pected. The request for an the Soviet Communist Party
interview rare but not un-Central Committee has been
precedented, was granted in meeting in Moscow all this
hopes of reciprocal treatment week. But whether the No-
should the occasion arise senko case was discussed was
not known.

--- Page 24 ---

14-00000

12 May 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR Acting Chief, Support Branch

FROM: Chief, Operational Support Division

SUBJECT: AEFOXTROT

1. This memorandum is primarily for the record and will
record the essence of a meeting held on the morning of 12 May
1964, at which the following were present: Messrs. Charles Kane,
Jack Bauman, OS; Dr. Charles Bohrer, Medical Staff; Messrs.
Bagley, Karpovich, McMahon and David Murphy, SR Division.

2. The essence of this meeting was furnished to the Acting
Chief, Support Branch on 12 May 1964, as follows:
Effective immediately or as soon as practicable, the following
procedures will apply with regard to the handling of the
Subject:

(1) Subject will receive a regular diet with modest regulated
portions. He is to have no dessert or "trimmings,"
but may have the necessary silverware with which to
eat properly (CAUTION--Extreme care should be
exercised with regard to controlling the silverware,
and it was suggested that at least two of the guards
be required to count the silverware in and out; that
the silverware be placed on the tray in a manner
where it could be observed before the guards enter
the room, etc.

(2) Arrangements are to be made for the installation of
adequate air-conditioning equipment to insure that a
comfortable temperature is maintained. (It is under-
stood that there is quite a bit of equipment available
through Logistics channels.)

(3) Subject is to receive a bath; change of underwear;
change of uniform; and a change of linen for his bed.

--- Page 25 ---

14-00000

(4) Subject is to receive a haircut, the shorter the better.

(5) Subject is to receive one cigarette on 12 May 1964.
(NOTE--These changes with regard to the bath, haircut,
cigarette are not to be considered as something to be
done on a regular schedule. We will await specific
instructions from SR Division as to when these items
are to be accomplished in the future.)

(6) Effective immediately, Dr. Bohrer will visit the
Subject only on Tuesday each week.

(7) In addition to the above, it must be emphasized that
our attitude toward the Subject will remain precisely
the same, and our security procedures, including
searches, will continue to be at maximum control.

It was further ascertained that we will have custody of
the Subject until at least July. It was suggested that perhaps we may
wish to explore some modifications in the assignment of personnel
or schedule of assignments. In addition, the Acting Chief, Support
Branch has suggested that immediate consideration be given to
devising necessary procedures to be followed in the event of an
emergency involving loss of control of the Subject. This should
be discussed immediately with the responsible DFO supervisors
and specific procedures devised, and all guards properly informed
as to their responsibilities in this matter.

Jack M. Bauman
