‘fro4-10333-10002 [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

AGENDA
Meeting with JFK ARRB Staff

Monday, 17 March 1997
2C06 IP Building
1:00 p.m.
1. Records Management Briefing
Becky Rant, DA/IRO
Carol Johnson DA/IMO
2. Cable Process

John Rovito, Agency Network Mgt. Center, OIT

3. Questions & Answers

--- Page 2 ---

13-00000

SECRET

John,

Thank you for agreeing to participate in briefing the JFK
Assassination Records Review Board (ARRB) to be held on Monday,
17 March, at 2:00 p.m., in 2C06 IP Bldg. I regret the short
notice. As we discussed, the ARRB has asked for information
relating to the creation, transmission, and dissemination of
cables and your name instantly came to mind. Their specific
questions are:

1- Can you describe the cable process in place in the Agency
during the
1960-1964 time period?

Prior to 1962 messages were delivered to the DPD
(Development Products Division) at 1717 H Street or to the
Communications Center at “L” Street. In addition there
also was a Q building that received special traffic.
After 1962 messages came into the CIA Headquarters and
were processed in different areas depending on the
types of traffic.

Imagery traffic would be sent to a specific floor
for the imagery personnel. Intercept and Special Programs
would either be passed to a Special Sections Area of the
Communications Center or to the Cable Secretariat.

2- How did cables come in?

Messages came in from the field via the Brandy Station State
Channels or military channels.

3- How were they decrypted?

Messages were deciphered using a OTT (One Time Tape)
or a OTP (One Time Pad) Process.

--- Page 3 ---

13-00000

SECRET

4- What happened from the time a cable was sent from a field
site until it arrived
on a desk at Headquarters?

Messages sent from a field site would be passed to a
communicator, encrypted and transmitted via
High Frequency Radio. The message received from Brandy
and relayed to headquarters and then it was decrypted.

The analyst of the Cable Secretariat would then read the
message and match what they read against customer
requirements. They then would have a typist type the
dissemination on the message. The message then would be
picked up from the message center by the various staffs
and or divisions.

5- How were cables disseminated?
See item four.

Please let me or Becky Rant, DA/IRO, know if you have any
other questions or concerns prior to the briefing.

cc: Becky L. Rant
Andréa E. Boyce
Sent on 13 March 1997 at 03:17:34 PM

--- Page 4 ---

13-00000

Administrative-Internal Use Only

Directorate of Administration

Briefing for the
JFK Assassination Records Review
Board Staff
on
Records Management in the DA

17 March 1997

Carol M. Johnson
DA Information Management Officer
2B17 IP Bldg.
703-613-1205 Secure 31205

Becky Rant
DA Information Review Officer
2B17 IP Bldg.
703-613-1204 Secure 31204

g:\iro\briefing\jfkbref.ppt

Administrative-Internal Use Only Page 1

--- Page 5 ---

13-00000

Administrative-Internal Use Only

Directorate of Administration

TOPICS

* CIA Information Services Strategic Plan
* Information Management Program Segments
* Information Management Goals
* Organization of Records Management In the Agency
* DA Information Management Officer (IMO)
* DA Information Review Officer (IRO)
* Deputy Director for Support (DDS) - 1965
* Deputy Director for Administration (DDA) - 1997
* DA Records

g:\iro\briefing\jfkbref.ppt Administrative-Internal Use Only Page 2

--- Page 6 ---

13-00000

Administrative-Internal Use Only

Directorate of Administration

CIA Information Services Strategic
Plan

* “Information and Records Management, including
Classification Management, is a fundamental and
essential business requirement for the Agency.”

* “The CIA’s Information Services shall...ensure
that each official record is appropriate, accurate,
secure and retrievable throughout its life cycle
regardless of physical form or media.”

g:\iro\briefing\jfkbref.ppt Administrative-Internal Use Only Page 3

--- Page 7 ---

13-00000

Administrative-Internal Use Only

Directorate of Administration

Information Management Program
Segments

* Records Management
* Classification Management
* Information Disclosure
* Information Automation

g:\iro\briefing\jfkbref.ppt Administrative-Internal Use Only Page 4

--- Page 8 ---

13-00000

Administrative-Internal Use Only

Directorate of Administration

Information Management Goals

An effective and efficient information management
ensures that records are available:

* to meet day-to-day business needs
* to ensure the continuity and consistency of records
* to provide corporate memory and history
* to protect the rights and interests of the organization, the
employees and the public
* to meet legal requirements

g:\iro\briefing\jfkbref.ppt Administrative-Internal Use Only Page 5

--- Page 9 ---

13-00000

Organization of Records
Management in the Agency

Agency Information &
Records Management
Panel
* = member

D/Info Mgt *
Recruitment
& Training*
Policy Research
& Audit*
Archive &
Preservation*
System
Development*

DA/IMO*
DI/IMO*
DO/IMO*
DS&T/IMO*
DCI/IMO*
component/imos component/imos component/imos component/imos component/imos

This slide is Administrative Internal Use Only

--- Page 10 ---

13-00000

Administrative-Internal Use Only

Directorate of Administration

DA Information Management
Officer (DA/IMO)

* The DA/IMO is the Deputy Director for Administration’s
representative for issues relating to records and
classification management.

* The DA/IMO is responsible for protecting equities
consistent with existing statues, EO guidance and
internal rules and regulations governing the creation,
maintenance and use, and disposition of information.

g:\iro\briefing\jfkbref.ppt Administrative-Internal Use Only Page 7

--- Page 11 ---

13-00000

Administrative-Internal Use Only

Directorate of Administration

DA Information Review Officer
(DA/IRO)

* The DA/IRO is the Deputy Director for Administration’s
representative for reviewing all DA relevant information for
release to the public under FOIA, PA, EO, and other
information release programs.

* The DA/IRO is responsible for protecting equities
consistent with existing statutes, EO guidance and internal
rules and regulations governing the review and release of
classified information, specifically, in response to:

* FOIA/PA/EO Requests
* Congressional Inquiries
* DOJ Inquiries/Litigations
* IG Investigations
* Special Searches & Other Release Programs

g:\iro\briefing\jfkbref.ppt Administrative-Internal Use Only Page 8

--- Page 12 ---

13-00000

Administrative-Internal Use Only

Directorate of Administration

Deputy Director for Support
(DDS) - 1965

* Office of the DDS (ODDS)
* Office of Security (OS)
* Office of Personnel (OP)
* Office of Medical Services (OMS)
* Office of Logistics (OL)
* Office of Finance (OF)
* Office of Communications (OC)
* Office of Training (OTR)

g:\iro\briefing\jfkbref.ppt Administrative-Internal Use Only Page 9

--- Page 13 ---

13-00000

Administrative-Internal Use Only

Directorate of Administration

Deputy Director for
Administration (DDA) - 1997

* Office of the DDA (ODDA)
* Office of Personnel Security (OPS)
* Office of Facilities & Security Services (OFSS)
* Office of Finance & Logistics (OFL)
* Human Resources Management (HRM)
* Office of Medical Services (OMS)
* Office of Communications (OC)
* Office of Information Technology (OIT)
* Office of Training & Education (OTE)
* Center for Security Evaluation (CSE)

g:\iro\briefing\jfkbref.ppt Administrative-Internal Use Only Page 10

--- Page 14 ---

13-00000

Administrative-Internal Use Only

Directorate of Administration

DA Records

* Information Management Officers
* Core functions
    * 1960s
    * 1990s
* Records Life Cycle
    * Creation
    * Maintenance & Use
    * Disposition

g:\iro\briefing\jfkbref.ppt Administrative-Internal Use Only Page 11

--- Page 15 ---

13-00000

Administrative-Internal Use Only

Directorate of Administration

DA Records

* Records Control Schedules
    * Temporary
    * Permanent
* Records Storage
    * Short term
    * Long term
* Accountability
    * Personal
    * Organization
* Search & Retrieval

g:\iro\briefing\jfkbref.ppt Administrative-Internal Use Only Page 12

--- Page 16 ---

13-00000

Administrative-Internal Use Only

Directorate of Administration

DA Records

* Access
* Safeguarding
* Preservation
    * Hardcopy
    * Electronic
* OGC Retention List
* Automation

g:\iro\briefing\jfkbref.ppt Administrative-Internal Use Only Page 13

--- Page 17 ---

13-00000
SECRET

DA Briefing 3/17/97

Info Management

DA more centralized file management
decontrolled w/10 components special jobs
each office manages their own programs
DA/IMO work w/all 10 offices
DA/IRO
records management, policy, guidance
Sen agency each Directorate DCI
tests 10 DA component
component find info, & IRO reviews for
possible release
IMOs in components do the records search both
PA/IMO & DA/IRO.
Archive & Records Center
DA/OIT manage

--- Page 18 ---

13-00000
SECRET

Warehouse w/shelving
2/7
Program ongoing to deal w/expired record/pages
Records Management/Storage

system that tells us what boxes are
expiring
OGC retention list - not destroyed until complete
accountability
not documented.
Search Retrieval people load
ARSENS (3) automated

query for archive information
Old labels inputted in mid 70s
page search (band) of file is
not considered "reasonable" for FOIA
offices have indices

Office of General Security enter destruction info in their index. Some do,
some don't.

--- Page 19 ---

13-00000
SECRET

3/7
1963
Cable Process - John Rovito
EOD 1963
Stations con send messages laterally w/o HQS
knowledge
Special projects like U-2
Landline, CW, Morse code, teletype
One time tape
one time pad.
L Street were operators, cable circuit
comm ctr cable secretariat & dissemination
typed by typist based on requirements listed
in books for divisions/staff/directorates/bod
sus in message
Lite cable secretariat would suspend info to
other directorates
"Speed traffic" elint/comment/project
KW
dn 63 diff to -26 chewed scripts.
decrypted using a the process - 3 types
Question: technically 63 - as there more then 1 cable/comm?
SCI 72 dels different Router each
Non SCI
area, LSt, Qst,etc ther
you can send message
independently.

--- Page 20 ---

13-00000
SECRET

4/7
State + CIA over some links - charges are
routers
encryption
SCI - Non SCI = Offers Network
Privacy traffic is shipped for
Secretariat
IP+L perocited-Limited - CI had that
Cable #put
as they are longer
can tell of # from Station ne sequential
as well (facts cablecare meg
to
NA/240 will) are log schedules kept?
Chrono records kept?
cable
any records kept?
Now cable maintenance is responsibility of the
office responsible for the information
not the COMMO CTR.
In 59-64 Cable Secretariat was under DCI
but records we kept for only a relatively
short period of time (mig?)
maybe Up to 76.
Computer system part in 1977
prior to 77 - vital records were multiple
all message
NORHE
EURS every stiffcable

--- Page 21 ---

13-00000
SECRET

5/7
post 64 Comme picks up "san hffic"
2 Building - did at handle RM?
ReL? prescribed boited
officers during a project determine the
channels use
were special regular traffic gr
sequential # or where they number.
parallel truck?
SCI -compartmented
special designee
Military
State
NSA
Intel channel
all in effect for 1952 an
on

--- Page 22 ---

13-00000
SECRET

6/7
DA Questions
BF
1 Financial accounting vouchered certified; audited
Accounting Date, location, time period
Kept by office
Finance Accounter
indexing.
02
in U.S.
2. HRM has microfilm of staffing complement
for that time period
3 C/Financial Services - doesn't think it was
maintained that way, if it was, it was
maintained in a 201, 301 or project file.
OF records were not organized by project
but by accounting practices
4. Station accounting or indigenous person
kept 56 yrs. Nonnatives kept only 20 yrs.
Personnel
Contract personal
Independent Contractor - affect
OP kept them before 76
Filed by name
payroll file

--- Page 23 ---

13-00000
SECRET

7/7
Security
1. get Wed from Bany
13 SRS - collected, developed, evaluated.
incl. CI nature
Security clearance the activities for non employees
but "Clearances per se are
not given
across the board stuff like clearances.
They do national agency elects on contractors

--- Page 24 ---

13-00000

Types of Questions for DA Records Briefing
March 17, 1997

Budget and Finance

1. In Cold Warrior, (p. 52) Mangold refers to a CI secret slush fund which was tightly
controlled by Angleton and never audited by the usual procedures. According to
Mangold, it was this fund which allowed Angleton to run his own operations without
supervision. Did the fund exist? Was this fund ever audited? Are there any records of
CI operational expenses for the period 1959-63?

2. Mangold also refers (p. 53) to an unnamed CI/B&F officer who says he worked for
Angleton from 1958-1964 and never dealt with him directly on a single matter. Is there
a list of B&F officers assigned to the CI Staff from 1959-63. Do their records still exist?

3. We have seen Directorate of Operations monthly operational reports which contain
information on the allocation/distribution of operational funds. Are there other DO or
DA records which reflect how a certain project utilized its funding? Can this type of
information from the early 1960's still be retrieved?

4. What records are kept on disbursements to sources in the field? If, hypothetically,
LHO had received money from the Agency, what records would exist?

Personnel

1. What records are maintained on contract personnel?

Security

1. For the period between 1955-65, what was the universe of files that OS had on
individuals or groups?

2. How are Office of Security records indexed?

3. What was the function of the Office of Security/Security Research Staff (OS/SRS)?
Why were defector records kept in this component?

4. In the OS/SRS memo of Oct. 31, 1960, written by Marguerite D. Stevens, the file
numbers of several defectors are listed: "Robert Edward Webster, EE-18854; Lee
Harvey Oswald, MS-11164; Libero Ricciardelli, MS-8295; Vladimir Sloboda, MS-10565;
and Joseph Dutkanicz, MS-10724." What do the "MS" and "EE" file prefixes designate?
How are these designations assigned?

--- Page 25 ---

13-00000

5. Does OS process security clearances for non-employees (e.g. sources) to receive
access to classified information? What kinds of files are created by this process? How
long are these files maintained. For example, Clay Shaw was given a security clearance
and had access to classified information based on his "responsibilities" as a source for
the Domestic Contacts Division (DCD).

6. Where are records that would describe liaison (etc.) cooperation or operations
between OS and CI located? How are these records organized?

7. Where are records regarding operations that OS participated in or ran located. For
example, where are the OS records on the Castro assassination attempts?

8. How many files did OS have on Oswald? Which OS components maintained files on
Oswald? Why did OS have any files on Oswald?
