14-00000
104-10167-10297
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

TO: Chief,
INFO: 16-26
FROM: Chief of Station, Habana
SUBJECT: Delivery of Material to Subjects of NAVA-2047
ACTION REQUIRED: See Para 1
REFERENCES: HAVA-2027 (RYBAT)

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO:
HEADQUARTERS FILE NO:
DATE: 10 June 1959

CLASSIFICATION: S-E-C-R-E-T

PE: OJ (CHECK TONE)

MARKED FOR INDEXING: NO INDEXING REQUIRED
INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED BY QUALIFIED HQ. DESK ONLY

It is requested that the following items sent under separate cover be delivered to subjects of reference.

1. Tribuna Libre dated 13 May 1959
2. Opinion estudiantil dated 15 May 1959
3. Notebook containing notes on communists and communist activities extracted from local publications.
4. March issue of Latinamerica
5. Copies of La Jollaria dated 23 May 1953
6. Copy of Las Historias de Espionaje mas asombrosos del munic by Hurt Singer
7. Paraisias del Comunismo by Jose H. Le
8. Cartas e un Cura Comunista by Agustin B. Elizalde
9. Two copies of the study mentioned in HSSA-3039
10. Book entitled RESCHEV by David Rosenberg and Mauricio Carlavilla and newspaper clippings.

Enclosure:
1-10 As listed above

USC
16 June 1959

Distribution:
3 - Headquarters w/encl
1 Habana w/o encl
3 Files w/o encl

AKKA: lhe

FORM 105
53 USE PREVIOUS EDITION
REPLACES FORMS 51-28, 51-2A AND WHICH ARE OBSOLETE

Arthur

CLASSIFICATION: S-E-C-R-E-T

201-259120

CONTINUED PAGE NO. 1

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

SECRET (WHEN FILLED IN)

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

NOTE: in the absence of comments indication of action taken, this cover sheet will be destroyed when the document is filed.

| TO | ROOM NO | DATE | OFFICER'S INITIALS | COMMENTS |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| 1. RI/AN |  |  |  |  |
| 2. CH/1/185 |  |  |  |  |
| 3. SALV/R |  |  |  |  |
| 4. Cuba |  |  |  |  |
| 5. WH/3/Montera Tharpe |  |  |  |  |
| 6. WH/3/3 Then |  |  |  |  |
| 7.  |  |  |  |  |
| 8.  |  |  |  |  |
| 9.  |  |  |  |  |
| 10.  |  |  |  |  |
| 11.  |  |  |  |  |
| 12.  |  |  |  |  |
| 13.  |  |  |  |  |
| 14.  |  |  |  |  |
| 15.  |  |  |  |  |
| 16. RI/HIS |  |  |  |  |
| 17. URI/Files |  |  |  |  |
| 18.  |  |  |  |  |
| 19. RID/FI |  |  |  |  |
| 20.  |  |  |  |  |

COPY DETACHED

and Candies DIAN Rojas

Mo bythest's

Pedro Diaz Landa

AT

RECORD G

4+1/3/6

holding these

Dring?

FER YOUR LION

8341 S.W. 27th Ferrovi
Miami 5-5, Florida

med it does

Triauri

RECLASSIFIED

ENCLOSURE

DATE MICROFILMED

FORM 6100 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

ABSTRACT INDEX

AMWARBLE

Cross reference to 201-185,869

FILE NUMBER 201-259120.

63-120-11

DOCUMENT DATE: 19 June

DOCUMENT NUMBER: 03044

SECRET

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce
