```markdown
104-10188-10002
14-00000
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
MATERIAL DELIVERED AT MEXICO HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS
KD2PNGs Support (VOL
50-6-32/2
FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME:
INCLUSIVE DATES: 2 Jul 1957 - 6 Aug 1968
50-6-32/2
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: 62/DDC
DELETIONS, IF ANY: Pool: 3034
REVIEWED BY:
(PRINT NAME) DAN HARDWAY
SIGNATURE OF
REVIEWING OFFICIAL: Dan Hardway
DATE
RECEIVED (RETURNED)
29 JUNE 78
27 JULY 81
NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THE FILE.
PA
RETIRED F
DESENS
Ider 51.
Support
2/2 July 1957

---

14-00000
FORM 2-66
2593
CONFIDENTIAL
NOTICE
THIS FILE HAS BEEN PROCESSED AND RETIRED. DO NOT
ADD ANY DOCUMENTS TO THIS FOLDER. FORWARD CS
DOCUMENTS THAT SHOULD BE INCLUDED IN THIS FOLDER
TO RID/RPU GE-58.
NOTICE
CONFIDENTIAL
(17-13)

---

14-00000
TOTAL COPIES: 16
GROUP 1
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
(Who Filled In)
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
INDER: YES ☐ NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE:
X-REF TO FILE NO.
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS
DISSEM
ACTION
FILE RID ☐ RET TO
INFO
RID COPY
FILE
BRANCH ☐
DESTROY ☐ SIG
SECRET 062300Z AUG 68 CITE MEXICO CITY 6630 6 Aug 68 IN 65508
DIRECTOR
LIFEAT
REQUEST PRIORITY HANDLING TO OBTAIN POA ON
IDENTITY FOR USE AS LIFEAT BASEHOUSE KEEPER. IDENTITY
TO REPLACE LIFEUD-5 AND LIFEUD-15 WHO ARE RESIGNING
EFFECTIVE 31 AUGUST 68 AND MOVING TO GUADALAJARA.
2. POUCHING COMPLETED PRQ PART ONE. HQS WILL
NOTE THAT IDENTITY IS UNMARRIED SISTER OF LIFEUD-24.
3. STATION AND LNPURE TRACES NEGATIVE.
SECRET
BT
SECRET

---

14-00000
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
TOTAL COPIES: 16
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
GROUP 1
(When Filled In)
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
INDER: YES ☐ NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
X-REF TO FILE NO.
DISSEM
FILE RID ☐ RET TO
INFO
RID COPY
FILE
BRANCH ☐
DESTROY ☐ SIG.
SECRET 062300Z AUG 68 CITE MEXICO CITY 6631
DIRECTOR
LIFEAT
6 Aug 68 IN 65503
REFERENCE:
MEXICO CITY 6638 (IN 65508)
IDENTITY: EMMA (ZUECK) RUFFINI
DPOB: 22 SEPT 18 IN SIERRA MOJADA, COAHUILA
CIT: MEXICAN
ADDRESS: XOCHICALCO 329 APT 7, MEXICO 13, D.F
MARITAL STATUS: SINGLE
FATHER: FIDEL (ZUECK) S. (DECEASED)
MOTHER: VIERGINIA RUFFINI DE ZUECK (DECEASED)
OCCUPATION: PRESENTLY UNEMPLOYED. LAST POSITION WAS
SECRETARY AT OFFICE CIVIL REGISTRY IN
CHIHUAHUA, CHIHUAHUA FROM 1955 TO 1968.
RESIGNED POSITION TO MOVE MEXICO CITY.
SECRET
BT
SECRET

---

14-00000
CONTINUATION OF
SECRET
35074
FEL
(1998) LIFEUD-22, LIFEUD LIFEUD-24,
granted small salary increases.
Viḥ has práce? on a monthly salary, which
Aged Memorandums of
regis not pay rate.
mifaënts were forwarded to headquarters,
normal in this- Projec daily operational meetings
David WISTED and LIFEUD-24 in order to pick-up
operational
activities
BASEHOUSES
Art 199 LIRISK employees started extensive
Because of
work in the area around LIFEAT Annex 6.
The sells was shut and all of the LIFEAT lines
This remation work was completed on 21 June and
aspouse was
in operation in early July.
Potoval t
14
the
D3CK
... LIRISK work in the area around LIFEAT Annex. 8 caused
The closure, of this basehouse from 19 April until early May.
5. I Pine 1968, the Statior made the decision to close down
LIFEAT Ax 5 and move the pasehousekeepers, LIFEUD-35 and 36, to
at the
The reasons for this decision were two-fold:
A) Livsey 3 have four children and Annex 5 was too
1.st ther, and 8), the annex needed extensive repairs which
The Landare rebased, to have done because he was planning to sell
the building A new base house Annex 9. was located and Annex..
The base housekeepers are now in Annex
6 was cited on 20 June.
9 and target coverage commenced in early July,
10. Paragraphs 7, 8 and 9, explain the reduced coverage
provided by LIFEAT; during the three month period under review.
SECURITY
11. No known security incidents occurred during this period.
PLANS
If
13 It presently appears that LIFEUT-5, basehousekeeper,
will be transferred by his company to the Guadalajara area,
this occurs, we will accent the resignation of LIFEUD-5 and -15
In view of this Project Officers
and close down Annex 3.
presentivare looking for replacements and Operational Approvals
The requested as soon as suitable candidates are located.
will
for Milare
V. CURTIS

---

14-00000
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
TOTAL COPIES
GROUP I
(When Filled In)
ISSUED
SLOTTED
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
INDER: YES ☐ NO
CLASSIFY FILE NO.
X-REF TO FILE NO
DISSEM:
ACTION
FILE RID ☐ RET. TO
INFO
RID COPY
FILE
BRANCH ☐
DESTROY ☐ SIG
SECRET 011530Z JUN CITE LOGISTICS 6544
MEXICO CITY INFO DIRECTOR
JBECHO
HEF MEXICO CITY 6039
REGRET SEARCH HDQS FILES FAILED. DISCLOSE RENTAL LEASE OR
CONTRACT FOR ELECTRIC SERVICE.
SECRET
BT
Fil LIFEAT
support
SECRET
Perkins

---

14-00000
26 June 1968
MEMORANDUM FOR: DDP/XPS
VIA: WH/LOG
SUBJECT: Project LIFEAT - Request for Increase
in Transportation Vehicle Allowance (TVA)
1. It is requested that the TVA for Project LIFEAT be
increased from six to eight to cover the use of two addition-
al cars:
POV of Carol K. ZINSWEISTER (P), translator $300 per
annum
POV of LIFEUD/35, safehousekeeper $250 a
month.
2. Funds for the above POV allowances in lieu of
reimbursement by the mile are included in the project renewal.
Richest J. Sicherdana
W. J. Kaufman
Chief, WH/1

---

14-00000
TO
INFO
FROM
DISPATCH
Chief/WHD
Chief/Finance Division
CLASSIFICATION
PROCESSING ACTION
SECRET
MARKED FOR INDEXING
X
SUBJECT
Chief of Station, Mexico City
LIFEAT/Forwarding of Amended MOCS
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
NONE REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
Action Required: For Your Information
Forwarded herewith are amended Memorandum of Oral
Commitments for several assets involved in the LIFEAT Project.
These MOCs reflect salary changes effective 1 July 1968 as
follows:
ASSET HQ 201 INCREASE PER MONTH
LIFEUD-2 201-117970 $ 25.60
LIFEUD-3 201-117971 20.80
LIFEUD-6 201-117978 See below
(Olga A. PARFINIK)
LIFEUD-24 201-119525 30.00
LIFEUD-32 201-749002 24.00
LIFEUD-35 201-740227 24.00
2. The salary for LIFEUD-6 (Olga A. PARFINIK) was changed
from an hourly rate to a flat monthly rate. The figure reached
was calculated from a six-month average of payments. The
actual increase amounted to slightly less than $10.00 per month.
Continued.....
Distribution:
Chief/WHD w/att h/w
Chief/Finance Division w/att h/w
Attachments:
As stated herewith
50-6-32/2
attachments detached
filed at various 201 files
CS COPY
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
HMMA 3491621
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
DATE
50-6-3212
25 June 1968
HOS FILE NUMBER
Pertinent 201s
CROSS REFERENCE TO

---

14-00000
CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
HMMA - 34916
3. The increase per month section was added to this
dispatch because a review of the files indicated that several
of the previous MOCs had been submitted incorrectly. e.g., the
salary for LIFEUD 2 shown the previous MOC was actually the
half-month salary.
8. Marschalk
for Willard C. CURTIS
CLASSIFICATION
FORM
8-6-4
'40'
53a
USE PREVIOUS EDITION
SECRET
NO
CONTINUED
PAGE NO
2

---

14-000
LIFEAT SUPP
In May 1968 FEINGLASS processed special reels of LIFEAT material.
HYA 31850, 13 June 68
(no indication of what was "special" about them)

---

14-00000
MEMORANDUM FOR: DDP/MPS
VIA: WE/LOG
25 April 1968
SUBJECT: Project LIFEAT
Request for Transportation Vehicle Allowance (TVA)
1. It is requested that a transportation vehicle
allowance under Project LIFEAT be authorized to cover the
use of 5 POVs;
one for LIFEUD/3 in the amount of $24 a month or
$288 per annum.
one for LIFEUD/S in the amount of $24 a month or
$288 per annum.
one for LIFEUD/7 in the amount of $40 a month or
$480 per annum.
one for LIFEUD/8 in the amount of $40 a month or
$480 per annum
one for LIFEUD/24 in the amount of $40 a month or
$480 per annum
2. Funds for the above POV allowances in lieu of re-
imbursement by the mile are already provided in the project.
LIFEAT Copy
W. J. Kaufman
Chief, WH/1

---

14-00000
CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
8 E C REY
Till LIFLAT Support.
support a $40.00
929
10 April 608
LICOMAY:
he use of
DRIVANT
of his
ith
LIFTAR: acrosso
the LITEAR TVA from
a $36.00 a month
paymat to LUTRAD
authorisations the second anthorisation to support
authorisation is occasiéd by HV-2765.
LIFEAT: Increase the LIFEAY TVA free
mathorisations as follows:
X7-2857
$24.00 monthly to LIFED
$24.00 monthly to WPHD-S
$60.00 monthly to LINKED-9
$40.00 monthly to LIFED
840.00 monthly to LIFED-84
existing
to gix
Although -4409, dated 32 Doommber 1988, stated
that a TVA was not reconnary for the LIFE's, it
is requested that their determinative to revised
in the light of the cemento in the Beptember 1986
Andit Report.
for/Willard C. CURTIS

---

14-00000
MEMORANDUM FOR: CI/OA
ATTENTION: Mr. Lally
SUBJECT: Amendment of CA for Antonio DOUBLETTE
(201-312729)
REFERENCE: Form 124 dated 22 November 1968
29 August 1967
1. In accordance with Reference, Subject was granted
an QA on 22 November 1966 to permit the WH/7/Haiti Desk to
utilize Subject as a Creole translator of unclassified tapes,
Subject was recruited in December 1966 and has been per-
forming this function satisfactorily since that time.
2. It is now requested that Subject's OA be amended
to permit WH/7/Haiti Desk to utilize his services to trans-
late sensitive telephone tapes (LIFEAT) from the Spanish,
French and Creole languages into English. To date the
Mexico City Station has been providing Headquarters with
a translation of the Spanish and French portions of this
intelligence take, with Port-au-Prince Station assisting
with translation of the Creole portions. Recently, however,
the Port-au-Prince asset departed Haiti and, at present,
neither Station has the capability to translate the Creole
portions. Since it is believed that the Creole portion may
contain important operational information from a CI stand-
point, the Haiti Desk proposes to utilize Subject to fulfill
this gap. Subject will be polygraphed before he is given
this added task. Your expeditious attention to the above
request would be appreciated.
3. If you desire further information, please call
Ruth Lehman, WH/7/Haiti, x5595.
CONCUR:
Robert W. Berg
Chief, WH/7/Ha itt
C/WH/T
DIST: 0&1 - CI/oa; 1 - EVNOW-1
C/WH/1; 1 - Chrono

---

14-0000
5369
215
NE
S.L.Yaxley
MyLogistics
6282
12 July 1967
ARCHIANA? DISSEMINATION
WRE
SECRET
RID COPY
INFO
ECRET
PHOLE
NO DOZE
TONTO.
GEANOR
FILE BLD
DESTINY
IN GRLI KO,
CITE DIRECTOR 15
7
7
NEXICO CITY
LIFEAT
533:
MEXICO CITY 2084 (IN-09500)*
1. DISPOSAL NY-2539 APPROVED.
2. PURCHASE OF RAMBLER APPROVED, AT A COST OF APPROXIMATELY
$4100.00. AV-2557 APPLIES.
3. COMPLY WITH BOOK DISPATCH 5373 RE DISPOSITION AND PURCHASE
OF VEHICLES.
END OF MESSAGE
PR/COMMENTS: References attached
R/SEF
Hát: 42 Fisher (Foto) K
Distribution:
OL/SD/FS3/V$
TAN V. BROE
C/WHO
RELEASING OFFICER
COGIOMATING PACIE
SECRET
CLOUDY
P.
DUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE KOUING OFFICE IS PROMISITIO
KING"
C/NG/LOG
ASDENTICATING
Ga
COPY NO.

---

14-00000
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
D-OCP TO FILE NO.
FILE RID BLY. TO BAN
DESTROY ☐ SIG.
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE.
SECRET
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
TOTAL.COPIES
-
LIFEAT Support
DEPRODUCTION PROHIBITED
•
•
ACTION
21
WHER
FILE
Advance COPY
✓ KRIDE: COPY ☐ ☐ ☐ ….
LVB, C/162 LOGS 4
SECRET 112345Z CITE MÉXICO CITY 2084
DIRECTOR
MEXICO CITY 28004 ('N 05098)
REF
LIFEAT
.
TIME
11 Jan 09500
PLEASE PROVIDE AUTHORITY FOR LOCAL PURCHASE OF VEHICLE
REQUESTED REF SINCE OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENT FOR IMMEDIATE
EMERGENCY EVACUATION OF BASE HOUSE EQUIPMENT CAN BE SATISFIED
ONLY BY VEHICLE WITH TRUNK LARGER THAN COMPACT VEHICLE TRUNK.
RAMBLER CLASSIC IS CHEAPEST VEHICLE AVAILABLE FOR THIS NEED.
SECRET
BT
☐
T
.
SEGRET
Rumendo approved
:12
July
:
1

---

14-00000
INDERY ☐ YES ☐ NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
REP TO FILE NO.
PICED RET. 10 BRANCH
DESTROY ☐ SID...
30
ACTION
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE E.
SECRET
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
Forica 16
TOTAL COPIES
ATES
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED
ADVANCE COPY
LOGS Y
☐ RID COPY
☐ ☐ ☐
"FILE, WA, WHS, 51/152
SECRET 060012 CITE MEXICO CITY 2008
DIRECTOR
JRECHO LIFEAT
1. REQUEST AUTHORITY TO PEPLACE MV-2539 BY SALE ON
LOCAL MARKET AND PURCHASE OF 1967 FAMPLER CLASSIC 4 DOOR
SEDAN AT APPROXIMATE COST OF $4102 US. FUNDS HAVE BEEN
REQUESTED IN PROJECT PENEWAL.
2. REPLACEMENT NECESSARY FOR SECURITY, MILEAGE,
AND REPAIR REASONS. CDOMETER READING OF OVER 71,000
MILES, POOR STATE OF REPAIR, AND CAR HAS BEEN USED IN
SENSITIVE OPERATION SINCE PURCHASE IN1962 AND SECURITY
DICTATES REPLACEMENI.
SECRET
BI
CECRET
•
UNIT
TIME
6 JUL 67 IN 05093
Monty in Log says he talked to Joe McMahon about this - latter was irked
at higher cost estimate than that in project and asked Monty to take no
action but to wait till McM is back in Mexico City (by now) and has com-
municated with us further on subject. N Perkins, 10 July 67
в

---

14-00000
See HMMT 8049 of 30 June 67 which requests info on Transcribing Machines.
says LIFEAT is presently using EKOTAPES for playback and they are reaching
a point of no return as far as maintenance goes. Requests two trial machine's
per TM 918885 of 26 June 67 and if they perform satisfactorily, station
will probably order 12 to 18 of them sometime in future, primarily, for,
(ment project varits ho
transcribing (LIENVOY & LIFEAT)
pression for new sitodus.)

---

14-00000
DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
Chief of Station, Mexico City
FROM
Chief, WH Division
SUBJECT
CLIFEUD Salaries
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING
X
NO INDEXING SEQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESH
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
MICROFILM
The salaries listed for LIFEUD in the project renewal
request do not jibe in most cases with the memoranda of
oral commitment which we have on file, and in some instances
(LIFEUDS 7, 8 and 9) the salaries are almost doubled. Would
you please verify for us that the salaries as submitted
in the renewal are those being paid, and if this is the
case,.. would you also prepare revised MOCs and send us
copies.
Distribution:
3 - CO3, Mexico City
CROSS REFERENCE TO
RI
Chrono
THB.
Theresa H. BACHARDY
CS/COFY
DISPATON SYMBOL AND NUMBER
HAV-15534
CLASSIFICAC
SECRET
ABSTRACT
K
FOR 53
103
USE EVIOUS EDITION
MPG. 1-80
OFFICE
WH/1
OFFICE SYSCO
1 OFFICE SYRER
DATE
C/WH/1
t
DATE
18 JUN 1967
56-6-31.
7 June 1967
HOS FILE NUMBER
50-6-32,'2
it
OFFICEN
ORIGINATING
N. Perkins.
CATE
FYRST
His Perkins
COORDINATING
OFFICER'S NAVE
<act
EXT
6954
0
1.25
RELEASING
OFFICERS SCRATURE
ሸ.
J. K
DISPATCH

---

14-00000
INDERT ☐ YES ☐ NÓ
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
X.BẮT 15 PHẢI NÓ.
DESTROY ☐ SIG.
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
V
SECRET
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
ACTION
(19
TOTAL COPIES
ADVANCE COPY
carve
A FEW
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED
.
INFO
RID COPY ☐ ☐ ☐
FILE, ove, Cl, colops, cilicz, clon, F. MA/862
SECREÍ 0523452 CITE MEXICO CITY 1654:
DIRECTOR
.
.
UNIT
TIME
5 JUN 67 IN 82373
LIFEAT
REF A HMMA-32038, 19 MAY 1967
B HMMT-3953, 19 JUNE 1963
1. REF A PROVIDES BACKGROUND ON DECREASE IN SALARY OR
TERMINATION PROPOSED TO LIFEUD-1.
2. ON JUNE 67 LIFEUD-1 OPTED FOR FINAL TERMINATION.
DUP. ING DISCUSSIONS THIS MATTER WITH WILSTED, LIFEUD-1 FRIENDLY
AND SAID HE REALIZED HE RECEIVING TOO LARGE A SALARY FOR WORK
HE PERFORMING. SAID HE DECIDED ACCEPT TERMINATION BECAUSE
A) WANTED TO IMMIGRATE TO WOLADY, B). DID NOT DESIRE USE HOME
AS BASE HOUSE, AND C) AFRAID OTHER PERSONS INVOLVED IN LIFEAT
WOULD LOOK DOWN ON HIM FOR ACCEPTING REDUCTION IN SALARY.
CLIFUED-1 HAS NOT ASKED FOR NOR WILL STATION OFFER ASSISTANCE IN
POSSIBLE IMMIGRATION.)
3. LIFEUD-1 VOLUNTERED HE HAS KEPT COMPLETE LOG OF ALL
HIS ACTIVITIES ON BEHALF OF LIFEAT AND WOULD TURN THIS LOG OVER
TO WILSTED. ALSO SAID THAT HE WOULD BE GLAD TO ASSIST IN ANY
ENTIRE
WAY IN FUTURE IF NEEDED, WHETHER ON PAYROLL OR NOT.
b/5 July
J
Dong. See LIFEUD/; file
SECRET
he final termination - no problions

---

14-00000
PAGE TWO MEXICO CITY 1654 SECRET
MEETING AMICABLE.
SECR
LIFEUD-1 AGREED SIGN LETTER OF TERMINATION
AND SECRECY AGREEMENT.
4. COST OF TERMINATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH LOCAL CUSTOM WILL
SE DOLLARS 1-1,125.00. TERMINATION THIS MANNER IN FULFILLMENT MOC
FORWARDED REF B.
5. IF FUNDS AVAILABLE, STATION CAN TERMINATE IMMEDIATELY
THUS SAVING DOLLARS 541.00 LIFEUD-1 SALARY FOR MONTH OF JUNE.
1
TERMINATION FUNDS REQUESTED IN REF A, HOWEVER THESE FUNDS FOR
FY 68. PLS ADVISE IF HQS PREFERS TERMINATE AFTER PROJECT LIFEAT
APPROVED OR IF FUNDS CAN BE MADE AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE TERMINATION.
SECRET
SECRET
BT

---

14-00000
CLASSIFICATION
DISPATCH
SIRET -
RYBAT
10
Chief/MD
DUFO
FROM
SUBJECT
:
Chief of Station, Mexico City
Agent Evaluation/David M. WILSTED
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
Action Required: For Your Information
Attached herewith is an Agent Evaluation report for
David M. WILSTED, Career Agent and outside Case Officer for
the sensitive LIFEAT Project.
Attachment &
As stated herewith
Distributions
- Chief/LHD v/att
CROSS REFERENCE TO
for/Willard C. CURTIS
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
DATE
PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR CELING
NO MOKING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESA
CAR AUDE-NAFUNG
MICROFILM
50-6-32
fell
LIFEAT
4
Support
IDRA
31970
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET RYBAT
"
10 May 197
HOS FILE NUMBER
201-009195
.

---

14-00000
AGENT EVALUATION
1. NAME (p): David M. WILSTED
Career Agent 08-13
2. PROJECT: LIFEAT
DATE: 10 May 1967
3. OVERT JOB TITLE: Technical Supervisor
4. COVERT JOB TITLE: Outside Case Officer for the LIFTAT Project.
5. JOB DESCRIPTION
A. OVERET
Assure proper maintenance of machinery
Categorise and schedule incoming production orders
Public relations with customer businesses
B. COVERT: a): Overall supervision of all LIFEAT technical
penetrations or other technical installations
involving LIFEAT personnel
6. EVALUATION
8.
b) Supervision of technical penetration routing and
security
c) Resolution of the complex technical and maintenance
problems inherent in a Project such as LIFEAT
d) Accounting for expenditures in the neighborhood of
$6,000.00 US per month as wall as being responsible
for about $25,000.00 US in WOFACT property
e) Responsible, with the Station Case Officer, for the
day-to-day handling of 21 active LIFEAT agents.
Performance of duties pet forth in paragraph 5 above without
prejudice to either: WILSTED presently devotes about 80 percent of his
working time to his LIFEAT duties. The remainder is devoted to bis cover
duties. This time allotment has the agreement of the owner/manager of his
cover organisation. WILSTED's cover manager, LIFINGER-1, likes and respects
VILSTED and they have a good working arrangement. WILSTED, LIFINGER-1 and
the Station believe that the present arrangement is satisfactory for all
concerned. WILSTED in conjunction with a production manager whom WILSTED
hirei, has assisted in converting the cover company from a losing
proposition into a profitable enterprise. The owner is grateful to WILSTED
for this.
b. Attitude towards WOFACT, Cover Organization and present pasigment.
KILSTED has an excellent attitude toward his employment with OPACT and
has never been heard to be critical of it or its objectives. He is
happy with his present assignment since he now considors Mexico City to
be his home. WILSTED's wife, who is a Field Agent, also has a good
attitude toward WOFACT and its objectives. She understands the reasons
behind the long and varied hours worked by WILSTED and the need for
security. She is a definite asset to WILSTED in supporting his cover in
ecoversations with friends and relatives.
0. Security and Discration: WILSTFD is very security conscious
and is discreet in his conversations. He is prompt for operational
meetings and follows directions to the letter when meeting sites are
changed or emergency meetings established. WILSTED has no knom problems
in living and mintaining his cover. WILSTED's wife is also very security
conscious.

---

1400000
INDERE ☐ YES ☐ NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
...
FIL NO.
FILE RID ☐ RCT. TO BRANCH ☐
DESTROV ☐ SIG.
WROW
Dissem
ACTION
INFO
by 2%
my
Wit-8
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED
TOTAL COPIES
1
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED
•
•
ADVANCE COPT
UNIT
TIME
☑ RID COPY
ㅁ
☐ sterre ☐ Tale
TULCO
FILE, VR, Secur-it, LOGS. 4, CI/OA
SEC DEI 23231@ZR CITE MEXICO CITY 952
DIRECTOR
--*
REF:
4MMS 573
$ 5734
24 84578
1. DAVID M. WILSTED WILL PROCUPE SOFE ON THE LOCAL MARKET AS
AUTHORIZED IN PARA 3(R) OF THE PEFERENCE.
2. AUTHORITY IS REQUESTED FOR THE PROCUREMENT OF A SIMILIAR
SAFE FOR DOUGLAS J. FREADANE WHOSE NEED FOR. A. SAFE PARALELLS THAT OF
WILSTED,
SEC PET
*Sex
:
SECRET
Bustos
Liment/Seggent
1.

---

14-00000
6 September 1966
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, CCS
FROM WH Division
SUBJECT: Project Funding Plan Project LIFEAT (FI).
Identification of Activity
.1. Project cryptonym: LIFEAT
2. Approved for. 1 July 1966 30 June 1967: $100,000
FY 1967 - $100,000
3. Proposed successive fiscal year budget: Same
4. Brief statement of project aims, character and
Structure:
The purpose of this project is to provide
unilateral telephone tap coverage in Mexico City.
A U. S. Career Agent serves as Outside Case
Officer and personally handles the thirteen
sub-agents who are responsible for the technical
phase of the Project which is run out of seven
basehouses. A Station Case Officer directly
handles five translators who are also funded
out of this Project.
B. Funding History
1. The Career Agent (GS-13) receives his salary and
allowances split between bank deposits in the United
States made directly by Monetary and a field
allotment received from the Station. He pays the
thirteen sub-agents their salaries which total
$2,337/month, basehouse expenses (rent and
utilities), and ops expenses. The Station Case
Officer directly pays the five translators their
salaries (total $1,675/month) and expenses. All
equipment is furnished by CIA and is replaced
when necessary
2. Funds have always been handled in this manner.

---

14-00000
MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES:
ROUTING
1
S
SECRET
2
6.
3
7
8
GAIS Charlotte Bustos/ur O FILE RID
WHIT WH/1
ET3654
RATE 8 June 1966
O INDEX
✓ NO INGES
★FILE IP ES FILE NO. 50-6-32/1
DISSEN BY
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF:
1
✓ RID COPY
SIFICATIONT
SECRET
TO MEXICO CITY
LIFEAT
☐ DESTROY
☐ RETURN TO
BRANCH
INFO: YR
, FILE
mes/892 11/162
(ELITE)
(PICA)
"TOATE ARAJ TINE VICEDT
"TREFERENCE NUMBERT
9 16 572 CITE DIRECTOR
01078
i
SINCE
HQS SUBMITTING PROJECT FOR AMOUNT REQUESTED BY STATION.
FUNDS FOR LIFEAT PROJECT FOR FY 67 ARE EXTREMELY TIGHT SUGGEST WILSTED
PURCHASE HIS QP CAR BEFORE END FY 66 IF POSSIBLE SINCE MONEY AVAILABLE
THIS FISCAL YEAR.
END CY MESSAGE
Life Suppor
06
W. J. KAUFMAN
C/WE/1
WILLIAM V. BROK
C/WED
I WH/BF
RELEASING OFFICER
Sw Bangl
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET
REBRADAVIAU BV ATUNG THIN THE CHA ARSIPER
GROUP 1
dingding and
declin
DRAVID IVER
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER
LUPY NO

---

14-00000
TO
INFO
DISPATCH
Chief, WH Division
FROM
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
SUBJECT
Chief of Station, Mexico
Memoranda of Oral Commitment's LIFEAT
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
PROCESSING ACTION
CING REQUIRED
DLY QUALIFIED DES
ASSE DES
Forwarded herewith are three copies of subject mens covering
each of the following acts used with Project LIFEAT and reflecting
salary adjustments which become effective 1 March 1966:
MC for LIFEUD-2 201-117970
LIFEUT-3 201-117971
LIFEUD-7 201-117980
LIFEUD-8 201-119521
LIFEUD-9 201-117984
LIFEUD-15 201-126315
LIFEUD-24 201-119525
LIFEUD-25 201-332335
LIFEUD-26 201-119974
LIFEUD-35 201-740227
Attachments:
As stated herewith
Distribution:
Chief, WHD
for/Willer C. CURTIS
CROSS REFERENCE TO
DISPUTE SYMBOL AND NL MEER
DATE
DEW-28382
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
LIFEST
506342
2 February 1966
HCS FREELZ
50-6-72 2

---

14-00000
MESSAGE FORM
EXT :
DATE:
ORIG :
UNIT :
Сня
J. Wrigh
WH/7/H
5595
☐ INDEX
TOTAL COPIESI
☐ RETURN TO MANCH ☐ FILE RID
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
ROUTING
घ.
1
SECRET.
2
6
✓ NO INDEX
3
4 FEB 66
☐ FILE IN CS FILE NO.
&
81
то 1.
PORT-AU-PRINCE
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF:
. WH-8.
INFO: VR
VR. FILE ☐ RID COPY, CI/OA, CI/IC-2
INFO MEXI
TO
PRIH
EVMOHAIR
LIFEAT.
REF:
PRIN 3683 (IN