froa-10308-10043 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
SECRET

February 1977
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: JMARC Program

Job # - 62-705/8
File # 19-120-15/2
Dates Included: 1960-61
Volumes: 9

1. Description:

These files concerned all the support activities
for the training and supply of all the infiltration forces
in 1960-61.

2. Findings:

a. MASH 1470 (IN 38669) 6 Nov 60:

The deputy of Manuel ARTIME (AMBIDDY-1)
reported that (Eduardo OJEDA Camaraza) had contacted
AMYUM/AMRUNG complex in Havana for help in accomplishing
mission and if his bona fides were not established
AMRUNG/AMYUM may arrange to kill OJEDA as he was either
very untrustworthy or positive CASTRO penetration/provocateur.

b. RIMM 5846, 4 June 1961:

Radio message received from agent # 84 -
"Functionary Italian Embassy by the name of MORATORI says
he works for one intelligence org. of yours, he says he is
in contact with Martin Elena and others and that you have
plans for invasion within 30 days after killing Fidel,
advise if we can confide in MORATORI."

c. BELL 0897 (OUT 9804) 6 June 1961:
"MORATORI unknown to us. Do not confide in him.

MORATORI's information of pending invasion within 30 days
after killing Fidel not true. Beware of rumor mongers and
provocateurs."

LAD/JFK Task Force
Attachments: a/s Chris Hopkins
Researcher: (Martin Miller)

DETAIL INCULDING MASH RECRUITMENT, TRAV TRAINING, PBPRIMER ADVISORS,
NAMES OF SOME TRAINEES, MISSION IN CUBA ETC.

MASH CAN ESTABLISH BONA FIDES THROUGH MASH AMBIDDY
CONTACTS WHICH WILL GUARANTEE SOME DEGREE AMRUN/AMYUM COOPERATION
BUT AT EXPENSE CONFIRMATION ANY CLAIMS (OJEDA) MAY HAVE MADE RE TRAINING,
ETC.

B. IF BONA FIDES NOT ESTABLISHED AMRUNG/AMYUM MAY ARRANGE
KILL OJEDA AS EITHER VERY UNTRUSTWORTHY OR POSITIVE CASTRO
PENETRATION/PROVOCATEUR.

PLS ADVISE AS TO DESIRED MASH ACTION OR TDY CASE OFFICER
HANDLE. BELIEVE MASH CAN DELAY (RECAREY RETURN 24/48 HRS.
END OF MESSAGE
