```markdown
“SECRET”

(WHEN MATERIAL INSERTED)

BLACK TAPE 201 FILE

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TO: IP/Files, GC-52

FROM: EUR/RMO

(Rm. #) (Ext.)

TO BE OPENED BY Personnel of EUR/RMO ONLY!

(DON 6-50 Designation)

VOL V enclosed.

Inclusive Dates of Enclosed Material:

From 1 July 65 to Dec 68

(Date) (Date)

(Signature of RMO)

FORM 11h 3299 S PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

201-306052

6.2. IMPORT CL. BY: 007423

07-201

THIS VOLUME CLOSED AS OF

31 DECEMBER 1968

LIVER FUNCTION TESTS

On 24 October 1968, I saw Dr. Daly of the Bio-chemistry
Laboratory of West London Hospital for liver function
tests. My family doctor, Dr. Hodes, sent me to Daly as
a private patient, as British practice is not to take these
tests unless the patient's condition seems to be worsening.
My doctor thought I showed no signs of a recurrence of
hepatitis and the normal practice would have been, at most,
for me to have been examined by the specialist at the
hospital, who might then decide to ask for the tests.

Daly said that all required tests, except the B.S.P.,
would be done. He said he thought the B.S.P. unnecessary
unless the others indicated negative factors. In which
case, he said he would ask me to come in again for that
test.

Daly will send me the results of the tests and his bill
c/o American Express, Rome, within a week.

THIS MATERIAL HAS BEEN ACQUIRED BY SENSITIVE SOURCE.
IT IS NOT TO BE ROUTED OUTSIDE RECIPIENTS' DIVISION
OR STAFF, DISSEMINATED, RELATED TO THE FIELD, OR FORM
THE BASIS FOR OPERATIONAL FOLLOW-UP, WITHOUT PRIOR
COORDINATION WITH C/CA/GF.

STATEMENT of EARNINGS and DEDUCTIONS

NAME EMPLOYEE NO. PAY PERIOD DATE ROLL COST CENTER STA

QRPHONE/1 802799 12/01 12/31 1968 20 1242930 000

EARNINGS

DESCRIPTION NORMAL OTHER

REG SAL 800.00

NOTE:

THIS FORM IS ISSUED ONLY WHEN AN

EMPLOYEE ENTERS ON DUTY OR THERE

IS ANY CHANGE IN THE PAY ACCOUNT

DEDUCTIONS DESCRIPTION NORMAL OTHER

LIQ PAYMT

CPA EX CR

FED TAX F 96 890.00

REMARKS:

Changing tax code for the quarter and reducing tax to $80.00 per memo, dated JULY 1968.

EMPLOYEE NUMBER: QRPHONE/1

802799

FORM 1314 Previous editions obsolete

REFUND DUE FROM EMPLOYEE

PAID AT HQS.

DISPATCH

INFO.

Chief of Station, London

FROM Chief, EUR Division

Chief, LCPIPIT/London

SUBJECT DTDORIC/Operational

ORPHONE

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

1. After considering several alternatives and given QRPHONE/1's
lack of financial forward planning, LCPIPIT believes that it would
be beneficial and advantageous for WOFIRM to offer to subsidize a
portion of an overt life insurance program designed to give him both
life insurance and a cash value toward retirement. We have dis-
cussed this with QRPHONE/1 and he has agreed to the desirability of
such a program. He is willing to participate in such an arrangement
and has undertaken to explore the possibilities available to him.

We are forwarding under separate cover a copy of several proposals
which he has received from the local representative of a reputable
WOLADY insurance firm.

2. LCPIPIT requests authority to subsidize up to 1/2 of the
cost of a life insurance program for QRPHONE/1. (This WOFIRM portion
not to exceed $50 per month.) From an administration standpoint
this would merely take the form of an increased monthly payment and
we would take the necessary steps to verify that the funds were
indeed being devoted to their designated purpose.

Aaron C. LAGINESTRA

Attachment: u/s/c

As stated above

Distribution:

5 - C/WOLIME w/att

1 - COS/London w/o att

1 - C/EUR w/o att

OEPA-1397 22 October 1968

MUTUAL LIFE OF NEW YORK
(MONY)
31 OUT EN ANNE'S GATE
LONDON, S.W.1
01-828 9711
13 September 1965

Dear

The following will give you an idea of the protection, cash at 65, and
retirement income you will get under three different plans on the basis we
discussed on the phone. Let me know if you need any more information.

Premium $50/month $75/month $100/month

Plan Type

Whole Life

Death Benefit 23000 35000 47000

Cash at 65 21200 33100 44400

Life Income @ 55 133 207 278

Endowment at 65

Death Benefit 17000 25000 33000

Cash at 65 25600 38100 50300

Life Income @ 65 160 239 315

Retirement Endowment @ 65

Death Benefit 11000 17000 23000

Cash at 65 25300 39100 52900

Life Income @ 65 158 245 331

I look forward to hearing from you in the near future.

1 - The retirement income figures are monthly income at 65 using the
10 year certain option

Note:

I would be willing to put up, or have
deducted, part of such a scheme, say
$25 a month.

2 - Any figures concerning dividends are not guarantees nor estimates
since dividends depend upon future experience and the annual actions
of the companies trustees

3 - All figures are in the US dollars and based on standard male issue
at age 37.

Sincerely,

J. Spencer Langford, C.L.U.

TO: DIANE L. CHATELAN

UNIT: CA/CF

EXT: 7767

DATE: 9 Oct 68

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIES: 3

SECRET

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS - SEEN BY

RETURN TO BRANCH

FILE SID

INDEX DESTROY

NO INDEX FILE IN CS FILE NO.

CITE DIRECTOR 40570

LCPIPIT INFO LONDON, ROME

RYBAT DTDORIC QRPHONE MHPROBE

REFS: A. LCPIPIT 7508 (IN 08511)

B. OEPW-405, 8 Oct 68

1. DEFER PARA 2 REF A TO ROME (PER OIRW-27586, TELEPOUCHED TODAY).

2. REF B, POUCHED 8 OCT, REPORTS GENERALLY SANGUINE

MEDICAL PROGNOSIS QRPHONE/1 HEALTH FOLLOWING HEPATITIS, PERMITS

SHORT TRIPS TO CONTINENT PROVIDED HE WATCHES DIET CAREFULLY AND

DOES NOT OVERTIRE, UNTIL CLINICAL AND CHEMICAL TESTS RECOMMENDED

IN REF B PRONOUNCE HIM FULLY RECOVERED.

3. FILE 200-124-156/3.

END OF MESSAGE

DIANE L. CHATELAN

Chief, CA/CF

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

DISPATCH

INFO. Chief, WOLIME

FROM Chief of Station, London

SUBJECT DTDORIC/Operational

QRPHONE/1 Physical Condition

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

REFERENCE: OEPA-1312, 10 September 1968

1. On the basis of the documentation submitted under reference dispatch, the
Medical Staff feels that QRPHONE/1 made a surprisingly fast recovery and seems
well on the way to complete health. However, the hospital report (a quick transla-
tion of which into English is attached for your ready reference), dated as it is, still
reflects some inconclusive levels in the results of the various chemical tests shown.
Undoubtedly these have by now been lowered to completely safe levels, since
QRPHONE/1 apparently felt well enough to travel to France, but the Medical Staff
believes it would be advisable for QRPHONE/1 to undergo another series of liver
function tests, to include the following:

a. SGOT

b. SGPT

c. Bilirubin (1) Direct

(2) Indirect

(3) Total

d. B.S.P. (Bromsulfophthalein)

e. Serum Proteins

Albumin

Globulin

Total

We assume QRPHONE/1 has consulted his own physician on his return to the UK,
but the Medical Staff has pointed out that clinical examination alone is not always
sufficient to determine complete recovery from hepatitis.

Attachment:

Hospital report

Distribution:

2 - Chief, LCPIPIT/London w/att

1 - COS, London w/o att

1 - EUR/BC/UK

1 - RID - files

OEPA-405 7 October 1968

2. In terms of our operational utilization of QRPHONE/1 at this time,
while they reserve finite comment until all the returns (per above) are in, the
Medical Staff did stress the paramount importance proper rest and of not over-
taxing the strength of the agent, coupled with his strict adherence to regular,
warm, balanced meals in accordance with the dietary restrictions usually imposed,
and complete absence of alcohol, in order to prevent a relapse. So long as these
caveats are adhered to, however, there is no reason why he could not make some
more short trips during the next few months, if necessary. However, since he
also has an office to set up and we would like him to concentrate on the Kambona
offer, perhaps it would be a good idea to keep those trips to a minimum for the
time being.

3. The Medical Staff will be glad to review any further chemical tests per
para. 1 above suggestions, or any others which his doctor may have already run.

JULIA R. CONGREVE

Chief of Station, London

Chief, EUR Division

DTDORIC/Operational

QRPHONE/Illness

1. At their meeting on 4 September QRPHONE/1 submitted a
report to RODIGAST on his hospitalization for hepatitis. Attached
to his report is a copy of this medical record with results of
blood and urine analyses written in Serbo-Croatian. We are
forwarding a copy of the report under separate cover for evaluation
by the Medical Staff. We are interested in having as thorough as
possible an evaluation made of QRPHONE/1's illness in order that
we may assure ourselves of his condition and the degree to which
he ought to be active in the forthcoming months. We will appre-
ciate it if Headquarters will pursue this matter with the Medical
Staff and advise us of its findings and recommendations.

2. Also forwarded under separate cover is a memorandum
prepared from RODIGAST's notes which elaborates upon QRPHONE/1's
symptoms.

Aaron C. LAGINESTRA

Attachment: u/s/c

1 - QRPHONE/1 Report & Medical Record

2 - Memorandum for the Record

Distribution:

1 - C/WOLIME w/atts

1 - COS/London w/o atts

1 - C/EUR w/o atts

OEPA-1312 10 September 1968

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT 1 TO: OEPA-1312

HEPATITIS BOUT

What I had thought was a touch of malaria and the extreme
fatigue I felt when I returned to London in July proved in
time to have been acute infectious hepatitis. The disease

-- which takes two to three weeks to develop -- was probably
contracted in Uganda. At least, I imagine so because my
principal contact in Kampala insisted on taking me to a number
of local restaurants of dubious cleanliness to sample Uganda
delicacies.

Hepatitis was diagnosed by a doctor in Komiza, Vis, where
my family had been holidaying since the beginning of July,
and I was hospitalized in the isolation section of Split
Hospital (there is no hospital on Vis) on the 7th of August.

My liver was swollen by one finger and blood and urine
analysis indicated a fairly severe infection. Treatment
consisted of terramycin and cortisone therapy, with massive
doses of vitamins.

I was put on a fat-free diet, which I have been told to
follow for at least six months. Naturally, no alcohol.

On 20 August, I was released from the hospital, mainly be-
cause I was pestering the doctors to let me go. I was
told to have "absolute rest" for four to six weeks and to
have another blood test within several weeks.

(Attached is the Yugoslav doctor's description of my case
and treatment, with results of all blood and urine analyses.
It is written in Serbo-Croatian.)

THIS MATERIAL HAS BEEN ACQUIRED BY SENSITIVE SOURCE.
IT IS NOT TO BE ROUTED OUTSIDE RECIPIENTS' DIVISION
OR STAFF, DISSEMINATED, RELATED TO THE FIELD, OR FORM
THE BASIS FOR OPERATIONAL FOLLOW-UP, WITHOUT PRIOR
COORDINATION WITH C/CA/GF.

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT 2 TO: OEPA-1312

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD 7 September 1968

SUBJECT: QRPHONE/1 Illness

1. The following information was obtained by RODIGAST
from QRPHONE/1 at their meeting on 4 September 1968. It
supplements the report which was submitted by QRPHONE/1 which
deals with his recent hospitalization for hepatitis.

2. Toward the end of his African trip QRPHONE/1 had been
feeling rather weak and nauseous, with no appetite. He was
constipated, feverish and had gas pains. These symptoms
persisted and after his return from Africa and on 6 August,
while in Yugoslavia on vacation, QRPHONE/1 suffered from acute
gas pains and vomiting. He was taken from Vis, where he was
vacationing, to Split where he was hospitalized. The address
of this hospital is:

Opca Bolnica

Zarazni Odjel (Firule)

Split, Yugoslavia

His doctor was Dr. Juraj FILIPOVIC.

3. QRPHONE/1's treatment was free inasmuch as he was able
to show his British National Health Card and a reciprocity
agreement exists between Britain and Yugoslavia.

4. QRPHONE/1 states that at no time did he receive
narcotics nor was he ever unconscious. During his stay in the
hospital a young British youth (Derek WHITTAKER, age 19, from
Shoreham-by-Sea, Surrey) was in his ward suffering from food
poisoning.

Aaron C. LAGINESTRA

att to OEPA-1312
-10 Sept. 68..
A amethed in the section for infectencer
descases 7. August, 1968
Observation: malaria.
medical
Chestory: the patient had felt for
about a week definite weakness, lack
q appetite, an incluvation to eructation and
distress, a somewhat feverish temperature
либе
heaviness under the night net Lage
in stomach
Clenual observation under hair
follicle showed: subictiric, afebrile,
the lever & the epigastream about 1.P-Pr
alight feeling accompanied by other
- regular findings.

Hepatitis rests showed
showed damage of
the
lever parenchyme of an average nature.
resembling infections hepatitis.
in the
Clinical course: Icterus prog nesse
progressed
furt 2 days, tell CoRt. costroide
was introduced in the body, after which
There began an improvement
provement and the
Icterus disappeared
After & days the whitish-ned
des appeared from the urine,
appetite
was
nestored, abclominal pains desafficared
and after 13 days a contral hepatogena..
was made / see findings/.
4.
As it was nece
necessary
to continue

treatment of The disease, the patient asked
to be discharged.
Treatment.
unde me
me decal supervision
Acute infectious hepatitis
Only Serbo-Croatian words
translated in this section, nomer
of Ameegs
are
English
Descharged - 20.
1968 as
recoveted
the patient needs to obsewe absolute
-pakent
-ginal + stay at home, follow diet as instructed
under
supersion of
doctor and contral
of hepatogram for about 14 days.
He will continue with the
recommended medicines [medies

not translated. Only testo-Creation words.
--Kroz. 13. dana kroz s dond
for
translated kno3 days.
for S
5 days I
and for the depending on the condition of
The pubient / ULier +b1/ while be
takes dexason/
Translation penceted in on attachment,
where meanings could be found.

ukup.
Skymol
Beestern ke
-
Caf bilantovine
Abumisi
6 3
SEGRET

sitman
Subst
Alkalna fosfataza: 5 K. j.
406 Haj.
SGPT-700 W.jo
SE-12mm
14.100
alkale (?) phosphate
DKStee 1,st 5,sog.31,Ly 56,□● 7
E-4,140.000
Hb: 86%
I.B.=1,0
Fe 242 gamma
Cu=150 .
Gus kap
Hammar kry
Urinialb.-+
"malarija o melana
urobil.1:32
sediment bil. +
Mabh.
Bedsnešto bi sluzi-
some L in srivice
SUK=93mg%
14.VIII
URIN:alb trag
urob.1:4
diment 230 mall types of fello
bil.d
Sed:3-4 L na sv. vid. poljn
Asan
dc.
•
Thyseal
Alter
Cetative
tedir.
Bickman
Sublimat est
20

THIS MATERIAL HAS BEEN ACQUIRED BY SENSITIVE SOURCE.
IT IS NOT TO BE ROUTED OUTSIDE RECIPIENTS' DIVISION
OR STAFF, DISSEMINATED, RELATED TO THE FIELD, GR FORK
S BASIS FC&L FOLLOW-UP. WITHGET FROR
PINATION WITH 5.

Conversation with Prof. William S. Griffith, London, 25/4/67.
Tadeusz Horowicz phoned my home to tell me that William Griffith, who
is spending a sabbatical year in Zurich from MIT, wanted to see me.
Later that evening, Leo Labedz and Griffith arrived. Stella Joyce
of Amnesty International and Matthew Nkoana also arrived unexpectedly.
It turned out that Lebedz and Joyce had often talked over the
phone, but had never met.

Griffith told me that he had recently visited East Africa. In Dar
es Salaam, he had met David Sibeko and Ahmed G. Ebrahim of the PAC
(Pan Africanist Congress). He said his distinct impression was that
PAC was on a strong pro-Chinese course. Griffith said he had written
to Nana Mahomo's old address in London in an effort to contact him,
but had learned later that Mahomo was now at Kirkland House,
Harvard University. He said he looked forward to talking with Mahomo
when he went briefly to the USA in May.

FROM Chief, LCPIPIT

SUBJECT DTDORIC/Operational

QREBONY/GREBONY/2 and AMSQUAW/1's Relationship

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

The relationship between CREBONY/1 and AMSQUAW/1 is a particularly
important one from both the production and security points of view. AMSQUAW/1
has been a prolific and reliable reporter, especially on items dealing with the
International War Crimes Tribunal, and it will be highly desirable for her to
continue to serve in this capacity in the forseeable future. It is recognized
that AMSQUAW/1 is not a controlled agent and that her personal willingness to
serve as a clandestine informant of CREBONY/1 is based upon a complex and inter-
related series of reasons, both personal and ideological. CREBONY/1 helped her
out of a tight situation in Africa and has befriended her since her arrival in
London. For the last several months she has been living at his house. QREBONY/1
has a very agreeable personality and is a genuinely likeable person. At the same
time, although she is not an ideological person, she shares his pro-Chinese
ideological position and she has never questioned his explanation that her
reporting is for the Chinese. Lastly, we cannot and have not, overlooked the
likelihood of a physical attraction between the two. In the last analysis it is
impossible for us to state exactly what motivates her to act as a clandestine
informant for CREBONY/1.

2. It is quite possible for the relationship between CREBONY/1 and AMSQUAW/1
to change at any time. Should their relationship take a turn for the worst it
might possibly have adverse security implications for QREBONY/1. This subject
has been discussed at length with CREBONY/1 and he agrees that great care must
be taken. He is careful to use AMSQUAW/1 only in situations where it would be
plausible for the Chinese to have an interest. Thus far this has been relatively
easy, indeed at the Stockholm sessions of the Russell Tribunal the absence of any
Chinese representatives served to confirm in AMSQUAW/1's mind that QREBONY/1 was
the Chinese man on the scene. At this point no actual problem exists, but both
LCPIPIT and QREBONY/1 are alert to the possibility that one could arise.

Aaron C. LAGINESTRA

Transmitted herewith is a brief memo for the record summarizing a conver-
sation between the undersigned and RNSLIVER in which the latter recounted his
impressions of a meeting with QREBONY/1. Transmitted USC is a brief note from
QREBONY/1 to RODIGAST covering the events of the same evening.

P.F. CILIBERTI

Attachments: H/W & USC

As stated memo H/W

Brief note USC

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: CILIBERTI Conversation with RNSLIVER 26 April Concerning His
Meeting with CREBONY/1

1. On 25 April BASTEAR told me that RNSLIVER was in London and was
planning to meet with QREBONY/1. BASTEAR accordingly suggested that
RNSLIVER be debriefed by the undersigned the following morning. Accordingly
I met with RNSLIVER for about one hour, from which meeting the following
highlights seem worth recording:

A. I told RNSLIVER that we (WOFACT) had been interested in
QREBONY/1 at the time that he was writing for China Quarterly concerning
his dispute with the editor of Revolution, Jacque Verges, but that we
had lost tract of him of late. Now that we are in QREBONY/1's home
town, RNSLIVER was told that we and Headquarters would be interested
in any information on QREBONY/1 which could be reported as a result
of such meetings as RNSLIVER had had with him.

B. RNSLIVER said that he had told Leo Labedz that he would like
to meet Ibrahim to gain some understanding of what was going on in
the African exiled community, particularly as it related to the Sino-
Soviet split. Labedz said that he thought that RNSLIVER would do much
better by talking to QREBONY/1 whom he, Labedz, said was one of the
few people around from whom Labedz could learn anything.

C. RNSLIVER met QREBONY/1 at QREBONY/1's house. RNSLIVER did
not have a complete roster of those who were there to participate
in what RNSLIVER described as a "political bull session". He
remembered only (in addition to himself and QREBONY/1) of Matthew
Nkoana and a girl from Mexico City named Sucesos, who he said knew
a great deal about guerrilla goings-on in Venezuela and whose
address he said was Calzada, Tacuboya 103, Mexico 18. RNSLIVER
said that Nkoana said practically nothing throughout the evening,
apparently because he found RNSLIVER's presence odd and unnerving.

D. RNSLIVER was as impressed with QREBONY/1 as Labedz had
predicted he would be. He described QREBONY/1 as remarkably knowl-
edgeable concerning Chinese factions of Communist movements in
Western Europe and Africa. He said that QREBONY/1 had described
his recent trip to Nicosia and Cairo, had mentioned that he had
visited Dar-es-Salaam, that he knew Jacques Grippa, and that he
intended to visit Stockholm in connection with the Russell Tribunal
and a possible Stockholm visit by Robert Williams.

E. RNSLIVER was particularly impressed by QREBONY/1's library
of radical books and pamphlets. RNSLIVER turned over to the under-
signed for copying and return a recent issue of Williams' The Crusader,
and a copy of QREBONY/1's own newsletter. These were received with
feigned interest, although of course we had earlier received the same
items from RODIGAST (already forwarded to Headquarters).

F. RNSLIVER did not recall meeting Mrs. QREBONY/1, and did not
know how many children QREBONY/1 had. He described QREBONY/1's house
as attractively middle class. He was aware of the fact that QREBONY/1
had gone to Kenyon College and praised QREBONY/1's writing skills.
QREBONY/1 showed him a number of articles he had written which
RNSLIVER said completely followed the Chinese Communist line. RNSLIVER
was surprised that some of these articles had been printed in the United
States in spite of their political orientation.

CONTINUING BRITISH IMMIGRATION PROBLEM

Returning to London from Stockholm on 10 July, I was again queried
by British Immigration about my failure to register as a permanent
resident. My excuse has always been that I did in fact go to
the Home Office, but no action was ever taken because I rarely
remained in the country more than a month. However, this tale is
wearing thin and I fear that I may have much more serious trouble
in the near future.

It would seem to me that the best solution might be to become
the official London correspondent of MPI or any other outfit
that might have me. I would need a letter to that effect and
would require a notional salary of about $5,000 per year, I believe,
but even this might raise questions from the British Inland
Revenue.

Some advice on this problem would be appreciated.

GRIFFITH VISIT

Conversation with Prof. William S. Griffith, London, 25/4/67.

Tadeusz Horowicz phoned my home to tell me that William Griffith, who
is spending a sabbatical year in Zurich from MIT, wanted to see me.
Later that evening, Leo Labedz and Griffith arrived. Stella Joyce
of Amnesty International and Matthew Nkoana also arrived unexpectedly.
It turned out that Lebedz and Joyce had often talked over the
phone, but had never met.

Griffith told me that he had recently visited East Africa. In Dar
es Salaam, he had met David Sibeko and Ahmed G. Ebrahim of the PAC
(Pan Africanist Congress). He said his distinct impression was that
PAC was on a strong pro-Chinese course. Griffith said he had written
to Nana Mahomo's old address in London in an effort to contact him,
but had learned later that Mahomo was now at Kirkland House,
Harvard University. He said he looked forward to talking with Mahomo
when he went briefly to the USA in May.

Chief, LCPIPIT

SUBJECT DTDORIC/Operational

QREPREY/Legal Action Against Jacques Verges

As you are aware, QREBONY/1 has been pursuing a legal action against Jacques
Verges. He has now received a letter from his lawyer which seems to indicate
that Verges is willing to make some sort of settlement--although he can only pay
in Algerian dinars. QREBONY/1, of course, is willing to accept a settlement
provided it includes some sort of apology from Verges. Armed with this apology
QREBONY/1 could then dispose of any lingering doubts regarding his political
reliability caused by Verges' accusations and would also have the ego gratification
of forcing Verges to eat his own words.

AARON C. LAGINESTRA

Serge Schwartzenberg
Avocat a la Cour
Paris, le 17 Avril 1967
Monsieur GIBSON
30, Stockleigh Hall
Prince Albert Road
LONDON N.W.8 (Grande Bretagne)
AFF. GIBSON C/Nouvelles Editions Internationales
Cher Monsieur,
Mon confrère adverse, Conseil de la Société Nouvelle
des Editions Internationales, et de Monsieur VERGES, me fait
savoir qu'il a eu une conversation avec M. VERGES qui lui a
indiqué qu'il vit actuellement en Algérie et serait disposé à
rechercher un règlement amiable des difficultés qui vous
opposent.
Il m'a fait part qu'actuellement sa situation ne
lui permet pas de payer en une autre monnaie que la monnaie
algérienne, savoir le dinar.
Il y a là une question de principe. Pourriez-vous,
je vous prie, me faire savoir si vous pourriez envisager une
transaction aux termes de laquelle vous seriez réglé en dinars.
J'ignore d'ailleurs dans quelles conditions l'exportation des
capitaux d'Algérie est encore possible à ce jour.
Quoi qu'il en soit, peut-être seriez-vous intéressé
par cette proposition.
Je n'ai pas encore discuté de chiffres avec mon
confrère adverse puisqu'il s'agit là d'une question préjudi-
cielle à toute discussion sur le fond de la somme due.
J'attends donc votre prochaine réponse et vous prie
de croire, cher Monsieur, à l'expression de mes sentiments
dévoués.
I phoned Schwartzenberg and informed him I would agree
to a settlement, but the amount to be paid in any currency
would necessarily depend on the extent to which Jacques
Verges apologized for his accusations against me in 1964.
I said I did not mind if Verges attempted to lay the blame
for those accusations on a "misunderstanding" or on erroneous
or malicious misinformation given him by others.

SECRET

(WHEN FILLED IN)

STATEMENT of EARNINGS and DEDUCTIONS

NAME EMPLOYEE NO. PAY PERIOD DATE ROLL COST CENTER STA

QREBONY/1 802799 01/01 01/31 20 1240062 000

EARNINGS

DESCRIPTION NORMAL OTHER

REG SAL 746.00 184.00

NOTE:

THIS FORM IS ISSUED ONLY WHEN AN

EMPLOYEE ENTERS ON DUTY OR THERE

IS ANY CHANGE IN THE PAY ACCOUNT

DEDUCTIONS DESCRIPTION NORMAL OTHER

CPA EX CR

FED TAX F 73 46.00

REMARKS:

Increase Normal Salary from $700 to $746 effective 1 December 1966.

EMPLOYEE NUMBER: QREBONY/1

802799

FORM 1314 Previous editions obsolete

PROCESSING ACTION

DTDORIC/Operational

QREBONY/QREBONY/1's Taxes

1. QREBONY/1 told RODIGAST at their most recent meeting that he did not
have to file an overt tax form for 1966 because his gross overt income for 1966
was less than $600. This will not be true for the 1967 tax year and he will
have to file in the Spring of 1968. The operative sentence in the 1966 Tax
Guide For US Citizens Abroad, US Treasury Dept IR3 Pub No 54 states--"Every
citizen of the United States, regardless of where he resides who is under 65
years of age and has a gross income of $600 or more during a tax year must
file an income tax return."

2. For the record the undersigned who is as yet unfamiliar with all
administrative details, would appreciate HQS confirmation of the above.

AARON C. LAGINESTRA

SECRET 191034Z CITE LCPIPIT 0701

DIRECTOR INFO LONDON

DTDORIC QREBONY

REF: DIRECTOR 96256

1. AGREED PARA 3 REF THAT RAISE NOT BE PASSED
THRU QRPURE. ALSO AGREE JULY EFFECTIVE DATE.
REQUEST HQS TAKE STEPS HAVE RAISE ADDED TO
SALARY DEPOSITS MADE BY HQS TO QREBONY'S ACCOUNT.

2. WILL COMMENT ON PARA 4 REF WHEN PROMISED
DISPATCH RECEIVED.

The USC memoranda sets forth a problem which QREBONY/1 recently
encountered at London Airport and how it was solved with the assistance of
London Station and JAGUAR.

2. As matters now stand, British Immigration will take no action against
QREBONY/1 without checking with JAGUAR.

AARON C. LAGINESTRA

BRITISH IMMIGRATION PROBLEM

Returning to London from Stockholm on 10 July, I was again queried
by British Immigration about my failure to register as a permanent
resident. My excuse has always been that I did in fact go to
the Home Office, but no action was ever taken because I rarely
remained in the country more than a month. However, this tale is
wearing thin and I fear that I may have much more serious trouble
in the near future.

It would seem to me that the best solution might be to become
the official London correspondent of MPI or any other outfit
that might have me. I would need a letter to that effect and
would require a notional salary of about $5,000 per year, I believe,
but even this might raise questions from the British Inland
Revenue.

Some advice on this problem would be appreciated.

GRIFFITH VISIT

Conversation with Prof. William S. Griffith, London, 25/4/67.

Tadeusz Horowicz phoned my home to tell me that William Griffith, who
is spending a sabbatical year in Zurich from MIT, wanted to see me.
Later that evening, Leo Labedz and Griffith arrived. Stella Joyce
of Amnesty International and Matthew Nkoana also arrived unexpectedly.
It turned out that Lebedz and Joyce had often talked over the
phone, but had never met.

Griffith told me that he had recently visited East Africa. In Dar
es Salaam, he had met David Sibeko and Ahmed G. Ebrahim of the PAC
(Pan Africanist Congress). He said his distinct impression was that
PAC was on a strong pro-Chinese course. Griffith said he had written
to Nana Mahomo's old address in London in an effort to contact him,
but had learned later that Mahomo was now at Kirkland House,
Harvard University. He said he looked forward to talking with Mahomo