14-00000
104-10180-10138 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

FROM:
TO:
1. TSD/SAB
2. 4200 Alain. Bldg.
3. AC/TSD/TA
4. TSD/SRS
5. WH/4/FI
6. RI/DP
7. TSD/SRS

ROOM NO. 1308

COORDINATING COMMENTS
DATE OFFICER INITIALS PRIORITY
CANADA 28 JUN
Coordinated by phone: Ralph Seehafer

ENCLOSURE FILE NUMBER
201/274049

DATE MICROFILMED DOCUMENT NUMBER
HK-3523

FORM 7701
OFFICE WH/4/FI
ABSTRACT INDEX PRIORITY
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER RELEASING OFFICER
NAME NAME TITLE
Flinderson COLIN C. REID ROBERT K. CRAVEN C/TSD/SAB
TITLE AC/TSD/TA

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

FROM: Chief of Station, Havana
TO: Chief, KURIOT
SUBJECT: ATTACK REQUIREMENT
AQUATIC/Operational of SW Supplies for AMIRE

REFERENCE: HAVA 4999, 17 June 1960
DATE: 23 JUN 1984
RE: 4-3-CHECK & COPY

1. The SW supplies and instructions needed to establish two-way SW correspondence with AMIRE/1 are transmitted herewith. We realize that some of the instruction forms and supplies which are being transmitted are duplicates of those sent to the Station in support of other operations. However, in order to facilitate the handling of each operation, the supplies for each are furnished as a complete unit. This will preclude the need for borrowing from one agent's supplies to outfit another.

2. AMIRE/1 will write to the Case Officer, using carbon system #39337. Two unused sheets of carbon #39337 should be issued to the agent for this purpose. He should be told to store them separately to avoid accidental loss of his writing system. His carbon system is developed by means of tablet #30607. A supply of the developer material, in quantities sufficient for training purposes, accompanies this dispatch.

3. According to the UI operational plan, SW messages written by AM will be mailed to accommodation addresses in various Latin American countries. In accordance with that, KURIOT will provide the appropriate (Will Field Station) with the materials necessary for developing the operational messages.

4. AMIRE/1 will develop the SW messages he receives by means of pill #58838. He should be issued twenty pills #58838 for that purpose. It is recommended that the agent be told to hide his developer materials in a safe place. This should not present much of a problem because the pills are so small. We do not generally recommend that pills be camouflaged as medicines. Even in cases where the SW ingredient does have a bona fide medicinal usage, the concentration represented by the pill would usually be in excess of the normal dosage, and thus there would be a danger of having an unwitting person use them by accident. If the Case Officer feels that for operational reasons it is desirable to camouflage them as medicines, they should only be kept in a bottle which is clearly marked FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY.

5. According to the operational plan, the Dare to agent SW messages will be prepared for the Area Division by KURIOT at Headquarters. The Area Division will pouch the messages (2 "blank" sheets of stationery) to the appropriate Field Station for application of the cover test and mailing.

6. The AC Case Officer should familiarize himself with the accompanying supplies and instructions before any attempt is made to train and issue supplies to the agent. Experience has shown that it is advisable to plan for two or three short (2 hour) agent training sessions scheduled over a period of days, rather than to attempt to cram the training into one long session.

7. Special attention should be given to planning the cover correspondence. It is usually recommended that the agent use a false use and return address on his SW messages to the Station, thereby dis-associating himself completely from his SW reports once they are in the mail channel. This requires that the correspondence be fictional, and entails a certain amount of skill on the part of AMIR/Plin fabricating apparently (agent correspondence). We have found that the use of false postal identity frequently provides the agent with considerable psychological reassurance during the course of the operation.

HK-3523
SECRET
2 of 3

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

8. The cover correspondence must in no way appear to be different from the bulk of mail ordinarily found in the channel being used. It should contain no information which could be viewed as suspicious in any way. The external aspects of the correspondence must be innocent in all aspects if the SW is to be expected to provide any level of security.

9. We have found that the reliability of any SW system depends nearly entirely on the care with which it is used. Please stress the need for careful writing techniques in your agent training sessions.

10. The following supplies and instructions are transmitted in support of the operation:

a. Standard Form (1059-CHT) which describes in detail how to write with a carbon sheet.

b. One carbon sheet (2010) labeled DEMONSTRATION CARBON is to be used to demonstrate the principles of carbon writing. The development process for this system can be carried out in the agent's presence.

c. One bottle (100 ml.) of developer (20509) which will develop the demonstration carbon writing.

d. Instruction (Form/H-16029) describing the development of the DEMONSTRATION CARBON.

e. Three carbon sheets #39337. The one labeled PRACTICE CARBON is to be used in training and is to be retained by the Station. Two are to be issued to the agent. The agent should not be allowed to witness the development of this system, nor should he be shown the message after development.

f. Instruction Form II-36037 specific instructions for the development of carbon system #39337.

g. Twenty pills #30607 to be used to develop practice and real messages written with carbon #39337.

h. Two practice messages written with AMIRE/1's ingoing SW system which he should use to practice his development technique.

i. Twenty-five pills #58838 which AMIRE/1 will use to develop the SW messages he receives. Two or three of these pills should be used in training. Twenty of the remaining pills should be issued to the agent.

j. Instruction Form (R-25053) instructions for the use of developer #56938.

k. One copy of the "Station Maintenance of SW Supplies" form.

l. Miscellaneous items such as cotton, swab sticks, and blotters; items generally useful for SW processing.

11. You will note that two different kinds of carbon sheets have been submitted with the supplies. One is labeled DEMONSTRATION CARBON. This should be used in the practice session only. It should be used to demonstrate carbon writing techniques to the agent. This system can be developed in the agent's presence. The other carbons submitted (#39337) constitute the agent's operational sending system (one sheet of carbon #39337 has been labeled PRACTICE CARBON). After the agent has mastered the use of the DEMONSTRATION CARBON he should be given an opportunity to write with the PRACTICE CARBON. It is very important that the Case Officer have the chance to critique the agent's SW writing technique with the actual system which the agent will use. However, the agent should not/

HK-3523
SECRET
2 of 3

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000

should not be allowed to witness the development of his operational system nor be shown the message after development. The development of #39337 should be carried out at the Station. If the Case Officer intercepts traffic messages written with the operational PRACTICE CARBON and the agent's technique is poor, he should type (photographs) of the messages to point out to the agent those areas where improvement is needed, or he should just discuss it verbally.

12. The Station should retain the DEMONSTRATION CARBON, the PRACTICE CARBON, and the rest of the supplies. Please bear in mind that the message and working materials should be treated as classified.

13. Please do not hesitate to request additional help from Headquarters if needed.

Enclosures: (1 Box & 1 Env)

1. Supplies & Instructions
2. Supplies

22 June 1960

Distribution:

3 - CO3, Havana, w/encls a/s
1 - RI, w/o encls
2 - TSD/SRS, w/o encls
1 - WH/4/FI, w/o encls
1 - TSD/SAB, w/o encls

TSD/SAD (J.H. Manestrick) (2922):gke

JOANNA H. MANESTI

CC COPY

HK-3523
SECRET
3 of 3
