104-10063-10749 - [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

SECRET 021510Z OCT 72 RESTRICTED HANDLING
CITE (ALGIERS) 1341
PRIORITY HEADQUARTERS.
MHCURB RYBAT MHCHAOS
REFS: A. HEADQUARTERS
B. (ALGIERS) 1340

1. MELVIN MCNAIR (DPOB 30 OCT 48, GREENSBORO, N.C.), ONE OF THE HIJACKERS OF A DELTA AIRLINES PLANE ON 30 JULY, APPEARED LNFALL 2 OCT 72 TO OBTAIN US PASSPORTS FOR HIS TWO CHILDREN AND FOR THE CHILD OF GEORGE EDWARD WRIGHT (DPOB 3/29/43, HALIFAX COUNTY, VA.), AND JOYCE TILLERSON (DPOB 6/6/51, SPARTANBURG, S.C.). DURING CONVERSATIONS WITH FLANIK, MCNAIR MADE FOLLOWING REMARKS WHICH GENERALLY CONFIRM (GL) DUEL/1'S INFO REPORTED REF B:

2. WILLIAM HOLDER, A WESTERN AIRLINES HIJACKER, DEFINITELY NAMED BY BLACK PANTHERS (BP) INTERNATIONAL SECTION, AS ITS ALGIERS HEAD. HOLDER WAS PICKED BECAUSE BP INTERNATIONAL SECTION STILL UNDER CONTROL OF ELDRIDGE CLEAVER (201-817097) AND NONE OF THE OTHER BP ASSOCIATES IN ALGIERS

E2 IMPDET WN-SISM
CL BY 059876

PAGE 2 (ALGIERS) 1341 SECRET
WANTED TO WORK WITH CLEAVER. PETER O'NEAL (201-856553), FOR EXAMPLE, RECENTLY LEFT THE COUNTRY AND DONALD COX (201-851941) CLAIMS THAT HE WANTS TO MINIMIZE FURTHER ASSOCIATION WITH CLEAVER SINCE CLEAVER HAS SUCCEEDED IN "ONLY IRRITATING THE ALGERIANS." (MCNAIR HAS NOT SEEN COX FOR ABOUT TWO WEEKS.)

3. MCNAIR, HOLDER AND OTHER HIJACKERS LIVE AT THE BP POINTE PESCADE VILLA AND RARELY SEE CLEAVER WHO IS LIVING IN HIS VILLA IN EL BIAR. MCNAIR SAID ALGERIANS KEEP A "CLOSE EYE" ON CLEAVER AND HIS WIFE, ALSO NOW IN ALGIERS.

4. THE HIJACKERS HAVE BEEN ISSUED NO DOCUMENTATION BY THE ALGERIANS. THERE ARE NO RESTRICTIONS ON THEIR MOVEMENTS EXCEPT THEY HAVE BEEN ADVISED NOT TO TRAVEL OUTSIDE THE PROVINCE OF ALGIERS.

5. MCNAIR SAID HE HAD NOT REALLY BELIEVED THAT THE ALGERIANS WOULD RETURN TO THE US THE ONE MILLION DOLLARS INVOLVED IN THE DELTA HIJACKING. HE SAID HE WAS AWARE BEFORE THE HIJACKING WAS PLANNED THAT THERE WERE REPORTS THAT THE 500 THOUSAND DOLLARS FROM THE WESTERN AIRLINES HIJACKING HAD BEEN RETURNED, BUT HE DID NOT BELIEVE THE REPORT SINCE HE

PAGE 3 (ALGIERS) 1341 SECRET
ALSO AWARE THAT THE HIJACKERS IN THAT CASE WERE FREE IN ALGIERS. ALSO, MCNAIR REASONED THAT SUCH A LARGE SUM WOULD OVERRIDE ALGERIAN POLITICAL CONSIDERATIONS IN THEIR DECISION ON THE MONEY'S DISPOSAL.

6. THE RECENT RAID ON THE BPP HEADQUARTERS BY ALGERIAN AUTHORITIES WAS TRIGGERED BY CLEAVER'S OPEN LETTER TO PRESIDENT BOUMEDIENE DEMANDING RETURN OF THE HIJACK MONEY. CLEAVER'S LETTER WAS WRITTEN WITHOUT THE APPROVAL OF THE REST OF THE BPP MEMBERS IN ALGERIA AND CAUSED A MAJOR SPLIT IN THE PARTY.

7. MCNAIR APPEARED AT EASE IN FLANIK'S OFFICE AND QUITE TALKATIVE, ALTHOUGH MUCH OF THE CONVERSATION CENTERED ON HIS TRIP TO ALGIERS. HE APPARENTLY SURPRISED TO FIND ALGERIA SUCH AN ADVANCED COUNTRY. HE HAS NO DOCUMENTATION EXCEPT AN AMERICAN DRIVER'S LICENSE AND WHEN ASKED IF HE WISHED TO APPLY FOR A US PPT, HE REPLIED THAT "WE HAVE NO WHERE TO GO, SO I GUESS NOT.” MCNAIR EXPECTED TO RETURN LNFALL NEXT FEW DAYS TO SEE WHAT PROGRESS FLANIK HAS MADE ON PPT APPLICATIONS.

8. SIGNIFICANT ASPECTS OF ABOVE INTERVIEW BEING SENT

PAGE 4 (ALGIERS) 1341 SECRET
LNGOLD VIA LNFALL CHANNEL. E2 IMPDET

SECRET
