14-00000

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FROM: RID/
SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

NOTE: In the absence of comments or indication of action taken, this cover sheet will be destroyed when the document is filed.

TO:
ROOM NO.
DATE
OFFICER'S INITIALS
RECEIVED
FORWARDED

1. THARE
2. NH/30
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20. RIMIS
C
✓ PERMANENT CHARGE
FOR YOUR RETENTION
RECORD COPY

ENCLOSURE
DATE MICROFILMED
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce
ABSTRACT
INDEX
FILE NUMBER: 301-259716
DOCUMENT DATE: 13 August 1959
DOCUMENT NUMBER: UMWA-12
QDCHAR

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000
UNCLASSIFIED
INTERNAL USE ONLY
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)
FROM:
TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)
DATE RECEIVED
FORWARDED
OFFICER'S INITIALS
COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

1. WH/III/AC/Flores
2.
3. AC/Then
4. Carib/C
5. AO/Tharpe
6. Carib/R
7. R
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.

☐ CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET
NO. UMA 12
194
1- COPY DETACHED for chrono
1t3: Please see w that copy got to Hava. Discuss This c/WH3/Caist
Copy sent to Station Havana now accountable pouch 3 sept
Pla process for 201-259.716. Leave this con heit attache "RIAN

FORM 1 DEC 56 610
USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS
SECRET
INTERNAL
CONFIDENTIAL ☐ USE ONLY
UNCLASSIFIED

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

TO: Chief, Division
INFO: Miami (KARIMEY)
SUBJECT: Report of Contact with ODCHAR on 13 August 1959

ACTION REQUIRED: See Para 10.
REFERENCES: UMMA-11

DISPATCH AND NO: 1274-12
HEADQUARTERS NO: 433-(CHECK 'T' CRE
DATE: 13 August 1959

MASTERED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED BY QUALIFIED HQ. DESK ONLY

1. ODCHAR was asked first to bring me up to date on what he and the others in his group have been doing and he reported that they were not doing much of anything except waiting. Waiting, first, for some funds which they are expecting to come primarily from the sale of the C-46; and, second, waiting for the establishment of some better communication with their contacts in Cuba.

2. With regard to the aircraft, DAMM told me on this date that he believes he does now have a sale for the aircraft and he thinks the sale price will be between US$50 and US$55 thousand.

3. ODCHAR said that he has communicated with someone (he wasn't sure of the name) in an attempt to solicit funds from people in Cuba. ODCHAR presented this in the light that he was "authorizing" some people in Cuba to go ahead and solicit funds. In this connection, he mentioned that at one time in the past Julio LOBO (note: this name has never been mentioned in any previous conversations with this group) had considered donating $100 thousand for the air force school which ODCHAR was promoting at that time, but apparently became frightened of the deal and nothing along this line materialized. ODCHAR said that he was hopeful that sometime he would be able to re-establish contact with LOBO. All his references are entirely coincidental to my suggestions to BW that I might try to bring this group together with Julio LOBO. Having learned of this previous connection, I want to revive this idea and proceed with the plan to bring these two together.

4. If and when they are able to accumulate some funds, it is their intention to go ahead with their plans for the establishment of a propaganda program which would be initially voice radio. ODCHAR said that he had been trying to persuade DBIAS and DOVE to a more narrow program within the limitations which I had cited for them in a previous meeting (See UMMA-11). He said he thinks now that this is the more realistic approach. DOVE holds to the original thinking that they cannot commit themselves to limitations. ODCHAR informed me that DOVE requests another meeting with me. He told that I would be away for a few days but would contact him as soon as I return.

5. I then questioned ODCHAR about his knowledge and DBIAS' knowledge of the presence of Soviet Russians in Cuba. ODCHAR stated that his only information had come to him through Douglas ROOT (this is the Canadian whom ODCHAR referred to frequently in his earlier debriefing SELLY et al). [ROOT] claimed to have seen the Soviets in Santiago de Cuba. ODCHAR said that furthermore he had obtained the names which he passed to Colonel MLS in the American Embassy in Havana. When asked if he thought these were the same Soviets AS had referred to in his testimony in Washington, ODCHAR said he felt that they were, although he believed DBIAS' information was obtained independent of his, ODCHAR's, source.

6. Going on in this vein, ODCHAR stated that [ROOT] is one of several people whom DAR encouraged to remain in place and to go along with Raul CASTRO and others for the purpose of obtaining more specific information on Communists and Communist activities in the armed forces. He said that along this line he had been introduced to Fidel CASTRO's set, whose name is Maria. He couldn't recall the last name at the moment. The others mentioned in this connection were Ramiro VALDES, who is close to Raul Castro, Juan FELNDEZ de Castro of the Air Force, and Eftan PECHARDO. DAR says he is an American. ODCHAR feels that if he by some means can re-establish communication with these individuals will obtain important information regarding Communist activities in the armed forces.

USE PREVIOUS EDITION
REPLACES FORMS
51 29 51
WHICH 44
AND 5129
OBSOLETE
CLASSIFICATION: 701-259716
PAGE NO: 1 of 2

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO. 1734-12

7. In answer to his appeal for assistance, I would like to help him devise some means of establishing this contact. I noted that he will pass word to his wife to contact Juan FADES de Castro the date she leaves for the purpose of putting him in contact with anyone I want to have and to instruct him in DAR's name to pass on any and all information he has at this time.

8. This group still believes, in spite of what has been reported from Cuba, that, while they may have some little different views on how much MORGAN can be trusted, Eloy GUTIERREZ Menoyo and MORGAN and the men of the Second Front of the Escambray are and will remain anti-Castro and eventually will move against him.

9. It was learned that [ODCHAR] is presently living in Frank FIORINI's house at 2050 SW 60th Court, Miami, telephone MO 7-0. He also informed me that ODENY had been talking with him about some local friends through whom he produced the names of some acquaintances of those whose names are Russian. I have not yet had an opportunity to discuss this with the ODENY agent involved.

10. I will meet with the group again at the end of this week, at which time I expect they will have some modified position with regard to their activities and will appeal again for assistance. Meantime, it is recommended that ODCHAR's recommendation with regard to having his wife get in touch with FINDES de Castro and to get him debriefed be passed to the Havana Station.

PATRICK I. HASLEY

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.
REPLACES FORMS
S1312A AND S1-29
CLASSIFICATION
PAGE NO. 2 of 2
