```markdown
| 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |
MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: ARAUJO-Bernal, Leopoldo (201-771754)
INCLUSIVE DATES:
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:
ROOM:
DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
---|---|---|---
29 Jul 71 | | Clifford A. FENTON |

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

14-00000
ARAUJO-Bernal, Leopoldo
201-771754
STATE DEPT. DOCUMENTS
(1) DESP # 1056, 2 Nov 1960
Subj: Medical Assoc. Officer Dive Furider
Indication of Plans of for Mid
Bouch

(2) USINT: Havana, 25 Oct 1977
SUBJ
applications
NIV app
Profesion
NC 86475

(3) Bm. Emb. Mentirala ref, dated in Dec. 1960

FBI DOCUMENTS
(1) DBA 26365 25 Oct 1962, Miami, Florida
Subj: Venisimo Francisco Domings, Sanchez Barrio: Internal Security.

(2) DEA-72316, 19 May 1961, Miami, Florida
Subj: Foreign Political Walters-Cuba
status of Cuban medical Profession
File: mm 105-1747.

LIAISON
(1) Document dated 28 mayo 1966
(2) Cable, Mexico City 18706 dated 13 Nov 1971
(3) Cable Opexercity

CIA DOCUMENTS
(1) Cable DIRECTOR 285656; dated 24 Apr. 1971
(sanitized copy placed in 201)
(2) WH/Miami cable 13875, 29 Nov 1971
(sanitized copy placed in 201)

AIR ATTACHE
TR. 457-54 bus attache Men Rome, Italy 1974

14-00000
OUTGOING MESSAGE
SIGNAL CENTER USED
GIF
-SECRET-
MOGATOR
CORF:
Files
MESSAGE
1:36
PAGE 1 OF 1 PAGES
DAY-GROUP
102319Z
MESSAGE CE
0333433
DISSEM BY: C CIA/DBO
B P 13
INFO: FILE 450/10, ULAY
RETURN TO PER
Süd 201-771754/04

TO: PRIORITY DEPT OF STATE INFO FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION.
SECRET WARNING NOTICE SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED
CIR-316/03458-77
BONKEY CHIPMUNK
REF: HAVANA 0427 DATED 25 OCTOBER 1977

SUBJECT: ARAUJO BERNAL, LEOPOLDO EDUARDO (U)
DPOR: 9 JUNE 1912, PINAR DEL RIO, CUBA

2- {S} SUBJECT HAD BEEN REPORTED AS A MILITANT COMMUNIST
SINCE 1935, AND HE HAD BEEN ACTIVE IN MANY COMMUNIST AND LEFTIST
REVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATIONS. IN FEBRUARY 1961 HE WAS REPORTED TO BE
AN INFORMANT OF THE CUBAN G-2 (SECURITY POLICE). THIS INFORMATION
WAS RECEIVED FROM A GROUP OF CUBAN REFUGEES, TRAINED IN INTELLIGENCE
COLLECTION, WHO HAVE PROVIDED RELIABLE INFORMATION SINCE 1961.

3- CLASSIFIED BY AUTHENTICATING OFFICER. EXEMPT FROM GENERAL
DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE OF E.O. 11652, EXEMPTION CATEGORY PARA:
5B(2). AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED ON DATE IMPOSSIBLE TO DETERMINE.
BASED ON: UFGA 0128 13 JULY 61, UFGA 15378, 5 NOV 64. FILE IN:
201-771754. ORIG: R HARRIS. UNIT: IP/EIS:JE/DH. EXT: 9462. COORD:
LA/COG: H SPEED. REL: C/PCS/LSN. AUTH: C/IP/RB.
DATE: 10 NOV 1977

OR+5: R HARRIS
UNIT: IP/EIS:JE/DR
EXT: 9461
CPCS/LSMP
Classmeet
RECORD COPY
SECRET 062347
COORD IN DRAFT:
LA/COG: KH SPEED
CORDING OFFICER
311-0385877
201-771754
for CITERS
RB
STING OFFICER
E 2 IMPDET
CL BY:

14-00000
PRIOR TO FILING
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
INSTRUCTIONS
1. Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back flap
and forward to RID.
2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records
significant action taken or comments requiring preservation.

FROM:
RID/
TO: ACTION BRANCH
If file no. and title shown are not proper,
insert proper file no. below and forward
document to RID AN.
PACER FILE NO

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES
FILL IN SECTION ON BACK, IF APPROPRIATE
COMMENTS

DATE RECEIVED | ROOM NO | OFFICERS INITIALS | FILE TITLE | FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE) | ABSTRACT | DOCUMENT DATE | DOCUMENT NUMBER
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---
6 DEC 1971 | | A.TALS | | 201-771754 | | 12 Nov 71 | UFAA 03604

FORM 61097 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS
SECRET

14-00000
DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
Chief of Station, Mexico City
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
Chief of Station, WH/Miami
AXOT Report on Dr. Leopoldo Araujo Bernal (201-771754)

Reference: WH/MIAMI 13167
Forwarded herewith, as promised in Reference, is
a copy of an AMOT report (EE 1970) on Leopoldo Araujo Bernal.

Attachment:
Copy of EE 1970, herewith

Priscilla J. BRAZLEY

Distribution:
3 - COS, Mexico City w/att, herewith
Chief, WHD without att

Typed:
MOS FER QANDDER
22 November 1971

201-771754

14-00000
FORM
ROUTING AND CUTIS SEEN BY
BETTY VAZQUEZ: ak
WH/COG/FI
EAT: 7144
DATE: 6 DEC 1971
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
WH/MIAMI
TYPIC
INFO: MEXICO CITY
REF: WH/MIAMI 13225 (IN 479676)

1. WHILE ARAUJO MAY HAVE HAD CONTACT WITH JUSTO CARRILLO'S GROUP
IN 1958 SUBSEQUENT INFO WOULD TEND TO INDICATE HE NOW IN SOLID WITH
THE CURRENT REGIME. THEREFORE, DO NOT FEEL CHANCE ENCOUNTER BASED ON
PRE-REVOLUTION ACQUAINTANCE WOULD BE PRODUCTIVE.
2. FILE: 201-771754.
END OF MESSAGE

WH/COG/COMMENT:
*Said Araujo had had contact with Justo Carrillo's Montecristis group in December 1953 and suggested Headquarters might want consider sending Carrillo to Mexico City for chance encounter with Araujo to explore depth of his ideological sentiments at this time.*

7 Dec 71
WILLIAM V. BROE
C/WHD
RELEASING OFFICER

LAWRENCE STERNFIELD,
C/WH/COG
COORDINATING OFFICERS

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

14-00000
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
SECRET.
221546Z NOV 74 CITE WH/MIAMI 15167
MEXICO CITY INFO DIRECTOR
TYPIC
REF: MEXICO CITY 16226 (468629)
WH/MIAMI 13167 (475064)

1. TRACES ON LEOPOLDO ARAUJO BERNAL (201-771754)
REQUESTED PARA 3 OF REF AS FOLLOWS: DOB 9 JUNE 1912. AS
OF MARCH 69 WAS PRESIDENT OF CUBAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION,
PROFESSOR AT HAVANA UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF MEDICAL SCIENCES,
AND HELD POSITION AT BRAIN FUNCTIONING RESEARCH INSTITUTE.
UFGA 2693, 8 FEB 67, LISTED SUBJECT AS SECRETARY OF PAN
AMERICAN MEDICAL CONFEDERATION FOR CARIBBEAN ZONE WHO
WAS MANIPULATED BY JOSE ANGEL BUSTAMANTE O'LEARY.
MEMBER OF CUBAN DELEGATION TO 4TH WORLD CONGRESS ON
PSYCHIATRY IN MADRID SEPT 66. ATTENDED VARIOUS INTERNATIONAL
MEDICAL CONFERENCES IN EUROPE AND LATIN AMERICA PRIOR TO
CASTRO REGIME. RECENT TRAVEL: CUBA TO SPAIN TO UNITED
KINGDOM JULY 69, RETURNING CUBA AUG 69, PASSPORT EF/69/733.

2. POUCHING COPY OF AMOT REPORT ON SUBJECT DATED
OCT 64. SOURCE OF REPORT IS MEDICAL DOCTOR WHO WAS
RESIDING MIAMI AT THAT TIME.

3. FILE: 201-771754. GP-1

SECRET

14-00000
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
SECRET. 291622Z NOV 71 CITE WH/MIAMI 13225
DIRECTOR INFO MEXICO CITY
REF: DIRECTOR 235656
RYBAT TYPIC

1. FOR WHATEVER IT IS WORTH, INFO IN 479676
LEADERS OF MONTECRISTI GROUP IN ARAUJO'S HOME LATE 56 WERE
MONTECRISTIS ATTEMPTING MOUNT OP TO TOPPLE BATISTA BEFORE FIDEL
COULD. LEADER OF MONTECRISTIS AT THAT TIME WAS FORMER ASSET JUSTO
CARRILLO WHO NOW WITH JDD SAN SALVADOR. HQS MAY WISH TO CONSIDER
HAVING CARRILLO TRAVEL MEXICO CITY FOR "CHANCE ENCOUNTER" WITH
ARAUJO TO EXPLORE DEPTH OF HIS IDEOLOGICAL SENTIMENTS AT THIS TIME.
2. FILE: 201-771754. GP-1

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET
CITE DIRECTOR
INFO: MIAMI
TYPIC
REF: A. MEXICO CITY 18206 (IN 468629)
B. WH/MIAMI 13167 (IN 475964)

1. FOLLOWING AUGMENTS INFO REF B ARAUJO IS A LONG-TIME
COMMUNIST HAVING BECOME INVOLVED WITH THE PARTY IN HIS SCHOOL
DAYS. ON STOPOVER IN SANTIAGO IN JUNE 1953 ARAUJO WAS PERSONALLY
RECEIVED BY THE THEN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE SALVADOR ALLENDE.
ARAUJO IS REPORTEDLY A GOOD PERSONAL FRIEND OF FIDEL CASTRO.

2. ARAUJO HAS BEEN MARRIED AT LEAST TWICE. FIRST WIFE-
CARMEN CARRUANA REPORTEDLY A COMMUNIST PARTY MEMBER. SECOND WIFE
IS ELSA PRADERES, WHO AS OF 1967 WAS PRESIDENT OF THE ASSOCIATION
OF CUBAN PSYCHOLOGISTS. ARAUJO'S DAUGHTER LOIPA ARAUJO
PRADERES IS WITH THE CUBAN NATIONAL BALLET AND MARRIED TO A
RUSSIAN-BORN BALLET DANCER. SHE IS ALSO A PARTY MEMBER.

3. FILE: 201-771754.
END OF MESSAGE

ER COMMENT:
Requested traces on Araujo who to attend conference in
Mexico City. **Sent t
WILLIAM V BROE, C/WH
RELEASING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

14-00000
XIX INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS OF PSYCHOLOGY
London
27 Jul - 2 Aug 1969

A supplementary list of late registrants will be available at the Congress.

14-00000
CANADA (contd)

SCIFI, David, Dept. of Psychology, University of Calgary, Calgary.
SCIFITTI, Jocelyne, Dept. of Psychology, University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon.
*AUL, John W., Dept. of Psychology, University of Toronto, Toronto, 5.
SANE, S.Gerald, 5865 Cote de Neiges, Suite 575, Montreal 26.
SER, Paul D., 400 Walter Road, Toronto, 10.
Denis B., 30 Colborn Street, Guelph, Ontario.
SUBCUTI, Milton P., Dept. of Psychology, Queen's University, Kingston, Ontario.
*TAR, Kaurice B., BRIT, Box 2000, Downsview, Ontario, Canada.
TILING, Endel, Dept. of Psychology, University of Toronto, Toronto, 5.
TU, Christopher D., Alcoholism & Drug Addiction Research Foundation,
344 Bloor Street West, Toronto 8, Ontario.
METANT, Robert G., Dept. of Psychology, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta.
NIGDOR, Blossom T., 503 Roslyn Avenue, Montreal 217, Quebec.
VINCOLA, Gordon, Dept. of Psychology, University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon.
WONG, Roderick, Dept. of Psychology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver 8.
WRIGHT, Mary J., Dept. of Psychology, University of Western Ontario,
RASC, Philip R., Dept. of Psychology, Queen's University, Kingston, Ontario.
ZWEIG, Joseph P., Dept. of Psychology, Sir George Williams University.
1435 Drummond Street, Montreal Quebec.

CEYLON
*JAYASURIYA, J.E.) University Bungalows, Sanghamitta Hill, Peradeniya.

COLUMBIA
*ARDILA, Ruben, Box 1212, Lincoln, Tibraska 68508, U.S.A.

CUBA
BERNAL, Valdes Leopoldo Age, Havana University, Havana, Cuba.
GUVE, Juan Jose, address as above
PUNG, Erneste Gommales,

CZECHOSLOVAKIA
Fice, Jil 1163, 4, Branik.
ch, ninaku Nams, Institut koychology.
dan, institute of Physiology, Czech Academy of Sciences, arc, Rejovicka 1063.
VA, Olga, Institute of Physiology, Czech Academy of Sciences, Praha -re, Budejovicka 1063.
dislav, Dys. of Eisentional Pychology, Gondova 2, Bratislava.
AE, Jaroslav, Trane nai Vitaros 324.
*ROLAS, Sil, Ministerstvo skolstvi, Kozartova 10, Olomouc.
Josef, Fribram VII, Pod Halšou 452.
Greg. bratislava, olova 17.
ARA, Jarmill, Paychelory intitute CGAV, Purkynova 2, Praha 1.
Lazick, Payenatric Descares Institute, Bernice Prague 8.
Otakar, Belcicka 2026, Drags 4, Sporilov II.
GAFOLSEN, Jaroslav, Psychologicky ustav KU, Hradcanske nan 5, Praha, -radcany.
Alenek, Praha 10, Sam. Rub. revoluce 24.
drich. O., Petrinaka 10, Tague 5.
Jaroslava, Prag 6. Destaiova 86.
DISKA, Jaroslam. Pronika 1233.
Ira, Bratislava, olova 17.
Institute of Physiology, Academy of Sciences, Sienkiewiczova, 'i, Bratislava.
Pre Participant

14-00000
SECRET
DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT:
PERTINENT INFORMATION
ARAUJO BERNAL, LEOPOLDO E. /UR/
SEX DOB 7
Li 7
CCC 7
014-006-069103
UFGA-26930AOL
ON FEB 67
SECRETARY OF THE LMP /PAN AMERICAN MEDICAL
CONFEDERATION/ FOR THE CARIBBEAN ZONE
AND MANIPULATED BY JOSE ANGEL BUSTAMANTE
O'LEARY /201-22396/ AS A PUPPET TO SERVE
HIS ENDS.

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.
201-771754

R 6705100140

14-00000
[DISPATCH]
Deputy Chief, WH/C
Chief, European Division,
Chief of Station, Madrid
THEC/ACTOR-1

CONFIDENTIAL
1. In late December 1966 and early January 1967 CCP-1 debriefed
AMCOIL-1 in detail regarding his medical colleagues still in Cuba.
AMCOIL-1 said that most of them would like to leave Cuba. The majority
of those described below are psychiatrists who are keenly aware of, and
depressed by, the effect of the Castro regime. Almost all of the
psychiatrists mentioned herein have friends and patients among Cuban
Government officials and, in AMCOIL-l's opinion, those defecting would
cooperate in extensive debriefings of their considerable knowledge.
Most of them frequently travel abroad. AMCOIL-1 is attempting to
maintain correspondence with them. The defection of any
of the psychiatrists would be especially harmful to the present Cuban
Government, since it is faced with a rapid increase of suicides,
mental illnesses, and alcoholism, stemming from a general breakdown of
morals and mental health as traditional values are uprooted and
replaced by repressive, unfamiliar demands.

2. In the descriptions that follow, it should be noted that the
Department of Psychiatry of the University of Havana Medical School is
composed of professors and instructors from the psychiatric staffs of
several hospitals, where the classes actually are given; there is no
University Hospital per se.

Cuban Physicians Considered as Possible Prospects for Defection/Operational Utilization

A. Nadal (anu). Assistant Director of the Department
DOB: C. 1926 of Psychiatry of the University of Havana/Calixto Garcia Hospital.
Full Professor. Acosta, wife, and mother criticize the regime.
Has son 13 years of age. Admits correspondence with a brother
in the U.S. Takes a courageous stand against the regime but
is volubly indiscreet. In August 1966 said that he probably was
going to be the father of an illegitimate child. Age 40, 5' 5",
140 pounds, almost totally bald. Would defect and cooperate in
being debriefed if abroad with family.

Distributions
1- DC/WH/C
2- C/EUR 2 CC for E/IES

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and declassification

CONFIDENTIAL
20 January 1967

14-00000
CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH
CONFIDENTIAL
OBVA-22,232

B. SUAREZ RATO, Roberto, Professor of
Psychiatry at the University of Havana/Calixto Garcia Hospital.
Intelligent and professionally ill. Said to be a
candidate for the Cuban Communist Party in order to live more
comfortably. Married to a former medical-school student who
desires to leave Cuba and who constantly criticizes the
political indoctrination in Cuban schools suffered by their four
children. Suarez admits corresponding with a brother in Miami.
Age 35-40, 5' 7", 170 pounds, black hair. Would probably defect
and be debriefed if abroad with family.

C. YODU Prevez, Rene. Assistant Professor of Psychiatry
at the University of Havana/Calixto Garcia Hospital. Is sole member of
Calixto Garcia staff to side with the staff of the Department
of Medical Psychology of the University of Havana, headed by
Jose Angel Bustamante, which is notoriously servile to the
regime. Attended the 1966 international psychiatric congress in
Madrid. Married and regularly fights in public with his wife.
Mulatto, Age 35-40, 5' 11", 170 pounds, black hair. Vague
possibility of defection and subsequent debriefing, if Yodu felt
there was absolutely no risk involved.

D. CHILL, Cristina. Mentally appointed Professor of
Psychology of the University of Havana Medical School/Calixto Garcia Hospital. Only Latinate friend in that he
is anti-regime as she pretends the opposite, in order to support
her widowed mother and younger brother Philip, currently
majoring in English Literature at the University of Havana and
attempting to obtain a scholarship for study abroad (probably to
England) in order to defect. Chill may have been born in the
U.S., when her father was a Cuban diplomat posted there. She
would leave Cuba if it were not for family commitments. She is
a courageous, discreet woman, about 25 years old, who might
possibly work against the regime while still in Cuba, and most
probably would do so if she and her family were outside of Cuba.
Would seek a scholarship to study abroad if there were a way to
make up for the loss of her monthly income of approximately
500 pesos, which is needed for the support of her family.

E. MORE (anu). Instructor of Psychiatry, University of
Havana Medical School/Calixto Garcia Hospital. Admits he desires
to leave Cuba but is too gripped by inertia or fear to try. His
wife also wishes to leave. They have one or two children.
Age 25-27, 5' 6", 130 pounds, blond hair. If abroad with family subject
he would probably defect and consent to debriefing. He is too
timid for any other operational utilization.

F. PEREZ Villar, Jose. Instructor and head of the
Department of Child Psychiatry, University of Havana Medical
School/Calixto Garcia Hospital. Admitted being so emotionally
distressed by his inability to leave Cuba that he requested not
to teach university classes. He is attempting to leave through
a scholarship, as a delegate to a medical congress, or through
the translation/publication of Intelligence and Personality, a
medical text by U.S. author James Inov. Hunt, with whom he
corresponds. He is married and has a 15-year-old son, whom he
is resigned to leave behind to perform obligatory military service,
in the event he and his wife can leave. Perez formerly attended
U.S. university. Age 39, 5' 7", 160 pounds, black hair. If
outside of Cuba, Perez could be used as an access agent to Cuban
officials, as his opposition to the regime is known to only a
few friends.

G. *Lopes, Mirta. Instructor of Child Psychiatry, University
of Havana Medical School/Calixto Garcia Hospital. Never makes

CONFIDENTIAL

14-00000
CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH
CONFIDENTIAL
OBVA-22,232

political comments but does wish to leave Cuba. In process of
divorcing husband, physician for the Ministry of the
Interior. They have two children.
five-year-old
She would
be of little operational use, for she is too lazy to
travel outside of Cuba or to work against it.

H. Sanchez, Isidoro. Instructor/Intern of Psychiatry,
University of Havana/National Hospital.
Has applied for a scholarship to study abroad, probably in England. The
scholarship was authorized by the Cuban Government in September
1966. Sanchez is intelligent, discreet, and is
a bachelor, 32 years of age, 5' 4", 130 pounds, black hair. It
is virtually certain that Sanchez will defect while outside
of Cuba. There would be an excellent chance of recruiting him for
use as an access agent.

I. Acevedo (u)." Instructor of Psychiatry, University of
Havana Medical School/California. Critical of the regime, dismissed, depressed, and criticizes
the regime in public. Nervous and combative personal. Possible
Married, several small children. Brother of Mirta Acevedo,
professional singer who represents Cuba in international events.
Age 35, 5' 7", 150 pounds, brown hair. Italy
would probably defect and could be used as an access agent.

J. Danasi, Jorge, Head of the Psychiatric Department of the
National Hospital, Assistant Professor at University of Havana
Medical School. See paragraph 1 of CSVA-22,121, dated
December 1970.

K. Prayde, Marta Soto, Director of the National Hospital,
and former delegate to the UN, Paris. Prayde told Celia Cunill
that she is completely "anti-regime," that she personally told
Fidel Castro that Communism is ... (obscenity) and that Castro
just laughed by way of reply. She is rumored to be protected by
Castro, who has allowed her to dedicate herself exclusively to
private practice. AMCOIL-1 has never met Prayde personally but
believes that she would probably defect and undergo debriefing.

L. GARCIA Mauri, Clotilde. Assistant Professor of Medical
Psychology of the National Hospital and of the University of
Havana Medical School. Sexually promiscuous, and
has never revealed her political affiliation. Age 30, 5' 6",
125 pounds, brown (but changeable) hair.

M. Grau, Miguel. Instructor of Psychiatry of the National
Hospital/University of Havana Medical School. Currently
attempting to obtain a scholarship to study abroad in order to
defect. Married, two children. Wife is sharply critical of the
regime and wishes to leave soonest. Grau is the nephew of
Pedro GRAU Triaca, who reportedly made millions of dollars in
construction and real estate before Castro came to power.
Pedro Grau now lives abroad. He gave Miguel a European trip upon
graduation from medical school. Miguel's wife is also from a
wealthy family. Age 33, 5' 6", 140 pounds, brown hair. Once
outside Cuba with his family, Grau would defect and possibly
could be used as an access agent.

N. MUNIZ Leon (anu). Instructor of Psychiatry at the
University of Havana Medical School/National Hospital of National
Psychiatry. Openly anti-regime, Muniz has requested permission
to emigrate. Could he be debriefed if he defects?

CONFIDENTIAL

14-00000
CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH
CONFIDENTIAL
OBVA-22,232

O. ESTEVES, Carlos. Psychiatrist of the Civil Hospital of
Havana. Secretly anti-regime, but has no intention of defecting.
Has two or three children. Age 34, 5' 7", 150 pounds, blond hair. AMCOIL-1
has had no contact with him since 1952.

Cuban Physicians Whose Defection is Dubious but not Impossible

P. COLLADO (anu). Official psychiatrist of the Cuban Air
Force and formerly of the capital psychiatric staff. He
is constantly poking fun at the Cuban Government in sparkling wit
at parties that he regularly gives for friends in the Arts, whom he
seems to cultivate. He is a close friend of Cristina Chill and
Marta Prayde, to whom he has attested-feigning approval of the
Cuban Government. He is cultured and loves the good life. He was
first married to Eva FREJA Ville, a French national formerly a
professor at the Alliance Francaise in Havana, who is now living
in France, since their amicable divorce in 1961. He has one child.
Collado moves in high government circles. Age 42, 5' 7", 150 pounds,
black hair. He might defect, if shown a good offer, in spite of
traditionally seeking not to complicate his life. He can be
reached through his former wife, with whom he maintains correspondence.
AMCOIL-1 is trying to obtain her exact address.

Q. TORROELLA, Gustavo. Professor of Psychology, University
of Havana Medical School, and head of vocational guidance for the
University of Havana. His brother-in-law is de Varona, Cuban
For Minister. Torroella is formerly with
alternating postings in Paris and Havana. In 1960 he told AMCOIL-1
that he intended to publish books outside of Cuba in order to have
income and pretexts to justify travel and residence abroad. In
AMCOIL-1's opinion, Torroella suited and failed to justify Marxism,
and obtained his current UNESCO posting so as to be out of Cuba.
His wife Marta Kouri de Torroella and two daughters are presently
in Havana. Age 39, 5' 8", 170 pounds, light brown hair. It is
very doubtful that Torroella will openly break with the regime,
even though he establishes a semi or permanent residence abroad,
but it might be worth approaching him when he has his family abroad
because of his knowledge of, and access to, key Cuban Government
officials.

R. PALACIOS, Claudio. National Coordinator of Psychiatric
Care, Ministry of Public Health, and full Professor of Psychiatry
at the University of Havana Medical School/Mazorra Hospital. He
is extremely clever, intelligent, materialistic, and ambitious.
He maneuvered himself into an important post and a wealthy private
practice. He is a candidate for the Cuban Communist Party, which
probably will be denied him because of a previous internship in
a New York hospital, according to the opinion of Jorge Abdo Canasi,
a former partner in medical practice. Palacios was a delegate to
an international congress of psychiatry in Madrid in 1966. He
has two daughters by a first marriage; no children by the second.
Age 35-40, 5' 5", 170 pounds, brown hair. Defection is doubtful,
but it is felt that Palacios would give serious consideration to
the offer of any post that would enhance his professional career.

S. CORDOBA, Armando de. National Coordinator of Psychiatric
Teaching, Ministry of Public Health, full professor, head of the
Psychiatric Department of the University of Havana Medical School/
Palando Hospital. An aristocrat whose effortless adaptation to
the regime surprised his cohorts, Cordoba is intelligent, ambitious
for power and prestige. He is married, no children. His brother

CONFIDENTIAL

14-00000
CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH
CONFIDENTIAL
OBVA-22,232

is a former ambassador to Great Britain, who fears that the regime's
Age 44, 5' 6", blond hair.
Because of his age and position, defection is highly doubtful, but
he would consider any post that would enhance his international
prestige; however, it is more likely that he will continue to
prefer being an important man in a little country.

5. Other Physicians Whose Defection is Considered Virtually Impossible

A. RODRIGUEZ, Luis. Professor and Director of the University
of Havana Medical School, he has been a member of the Communist Party
in Cuba since a youth. He is intelligent, personable, and
dedicated to his career. He is married and has three or four
children. Age 36, 5' 7", 180 pounds, black hair.

B. IRIZASTEGUI DEAN, Fidel. Assistant Professor of the
University of Havana Medical School. Member of the Party. He is quite satisfied with the present situation - is well
off financially, has prestige, and travels regularly. Was a
delegate to the medical congress in India in 1961. Married to
Nilda Valdes, a professor of the School of Psychology, University
of Havana. Age 35-40, 5' 6", 150 pounds, mulatto.

C. CASTRO, Jose. Rector of the University of Havana
since 1956. He made a rapid rise from Director of Public Health
to Minister of Public Health. Is credited with
professional skill as an administrator and public relations type
and is said to be a traveling companion of Fidel Castro. He is not
believed to be a member of the Party. Is married and is a former classmate of AMCOIL-1's. Age 34,
5' 8", 172 pounds, black hair.

D. TORRADO, Francisco. Dean of Medical School,
University of Havana, and brother of the President of Cuba.
AMCOIL-1 worked closely with Torrado in former
hospital and describes him as straightforward, honest, hard working,
and one who avoids politics. His present post was forced upon him
by his brother. He is married, and one of his sons is active in
the Communist Youth. Age 47, height 5' 7", 180 pounds, grey-black
hair.

E. ROJAS Ochoa, Francisco. Director of National Statistics
and member of the Communist Party of Cuba. He represented Cuba as
a delegate to the World Health Scholarship in Mexico in 1965 and to a
1966 conference concerning sanitation in Washington, D.C. He was
a university classmate of AMCOIL-1's. Age 35-36, 5' 4", 140 pounds,
brown hair, balding.

F. MODESTO (anu). Instructor of Psychiatry at the University
of Havana Medical School/Calixto Garcia Hospital. A Brazilian
citizen resident in Cuba since 1961, Modesto is a fanatically anti-
American Marxist who broadcasts to Brazil for Radio Havana.
He swears he will participate in the violent overthrow of the Brazilian
Government, once he returns from Cuba in 1967 via Mexico. He is
married to a Cuban whose wealthy father lives in Mexico but travels
frequently to Cuba. Age 30-35, 6', 200 pounds, black hair, mulatto.
In AMCOIL-1's opinion, Modesto is a dangerous political fanatic,
about whom the Brazilian authorities should be warned.

G. GALIGARCIA, Jose Director of the Department of Psychiatry
of the University of Havana/Calixto Garcia Hospital. Full
professor. Attempts to ignore the realities of Cuban life but has
been emotionally depressed by them. Age 58-60. Will stay in Cuba
where he is assured of material comfort in return for being
integrated with the regime.

H. RODRIGUEZ Rivero, Alipio. Instructor of Psychiatry,
University of Havana Medical School/Calixto Garcia Hospital.

CONFIDENTIAL

14-00000
CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH
CONFIDENTIAL
OBVA-22,232

Integrated with the regime. His brother Luis is Director of the
University of Medical School. Alipio Rodriguez is ill; he
underwent specialization in East Germany in 1965. He is married
and has one child. Age 35-40, 5' 7", 160 pounds, light mulatto.

I. LESMES (anu). Instructor of Psychiatry, University
of Havana Medical School/National Hospital. A recent graduate