Okay, I have reviewed and combined the Tesseract and Google Vision OCR texts to create a cleaned and improved version, formatted in Markdown. I have corrected typos, OCR errors, and inconsistencies, while preserving the original structure, factual details, names, dates, and numbers.

---

14-00000
104-10183-10366
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

MATERIALS REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: 201-749651

INCLUSIVE DATES: 31 Dec 70 - 13 APR 78

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: LA/DDO
ROOM: 3eal

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED
2 JULY 78 | 27 JULY 78
5-14 AUG 1978 | 6 OCT 78

REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)
CHUCK BERK
CHUCK BERK
CORNWELL
BETSY WOLF

SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
Charles Berk
Cornwell
Betsy Wolf

MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.

Volume I
Jan 71-
---

14-00000

OPERATIONAL MATERIAL dated 2 January 1971

10 April 1972

---

THIRD AGENCY DOCUMENTS

FBI, 6 April 1978
I&NS, 19 April 1971

---

14-00000

SECRET
STAFF

1. 000/00, EA-8,
CONF: LA-8
EPS/EG-2, IP/DMS-2, LSN/ID, ODPD-0, PCS/LSN, (34(P)
INFO: FILE, VR, S00-4, C/PCS, CI-4,

78 0552087
PAGE 001

TOT: 1300122 APR. 78
DIRECTOR 204604

SECRET
STAFF 13001OZ DIRECTOR 204604
TO: IMMEDIATE LA/MIAMI INFO PANAMA CITY

ANINTEL REAM
REF: LA/MIAMI 28157 0527676

1. IN CONVERSATION WITH NVCANOPY THEY HAVE ADVISED THAT
THEY ARE INTERESTED IN A PRELIMINARY INTERVIEW WITH SLANK-1 (S-1)
AND DEPENDING ON ITS OUTCOME WILL MAKE A DETERMINATION IF THEY
DESIRE S-1'S CONTINUED CONTACT WITH SALVADOR ALDEREGUIA (SA).
PACHANKIS SHOULD MAKE IT CLEAR TO S-1 THAT RTACTION OBVIOUSLY
HAS NO OBJECTION TO HIS COOPERATION WITH NVCANOPY. PACHANKIS
ALSO SHOULD MAKE IT CLEAR TO S-1 THAT RTACTION HAS NO INTEREST
IN HIS (S-1'S) CONTINUED RELATIONSHIP WITH SA.

2. A REVIEW OF THE FILES OF THOSE INDIVIDUALS WITH WHOM
PACHANKIS CURRENTLY IN ACTIVE CONTACT INDICATES THAT NVCANOPY
APPROVAL WAS SOUGHT AND GRANTED IN EACH CASE, WITH THE
EXCEPTION OF DEFECTORS SUCH AS SLANK-1 WHO HAD BEEN HANDLED
AS A DEFECTOR ALTHOUGH ACCORDING TO THE FILE HE NEVER OFFICIALLY
GRANTED THIS STATUS UNDER PL 110. HQS DOES NOT COORDINATE
EACH INDIVIDUAL MEETING NOR IDENTIFY OFFICER HANDLING CASE
TO NVCANOPY.

3. FILE: 201-299243; 201-749651. E2, IMPOET.
LA COMMENT: REF QUERIED HQS REGARDING FBI OR CIA INTEREST IN
S-1 PLAYING ROLE OF CONFIDANT TO ALDEREGUIA.
ORIG: LA/CO (SMITH/SPEED X1819/1325); COORD: AC/LA/CO/EA
(HARRINGTON), AC/LA/PHNCR (PORN), PCS/LSN C.
C/LA/CARI (BURNETT), C/LA/CAR (GREIG); AUTH: DC/LA/CD (LATRASH).
REL: C/LAD (WARREN); CL BY: 012034.

END OF MESSAGE!
SECRET
749651

---

14-00000

50/22/ DISSEM PER SO 132
SECRET
CONF: C/LA-8
INFO: FILE, C/IP/DMS, C/LSN/ID, C/PCS,
ODPD D. (15/P)

78 0530497
NON ACENCY
PAGE 001
TOT: 080750Z APR. 78
CIA 202417

TO: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION,
ATTENTION: INTELLIGENCE DIVISION
SECRET/WARNING NOTICE - SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS
INVOLVED/NO FOREIGN DISSEM.
CIR-316/ 01514-78

SUBJECT: TOMCAT; ESP-CUBA-PANAMA; RA-CUBA-PANAMA
REFS: A. FBI TELETYPE DATED 052028Z APRIL 1978, CAPTIONED AS
ABOVE.
B. CIR-316/00260-75, DATED 18 FEBRUARY 1975, CAPTIONED
"SALVADOR ALDEREGUIA, ALSO KNOWN AS "EL GALLEGO" INTERNAL SECRUITY-
CUBA.

1. WITH REGARD TO CLARIFICATION OF SALVADOR ALDEREGUIA'S
ASSOCIATION WITH U.S. GOVERNMENT AGENCIES AND PARTICULARLY WITH CIA,
REFERENCE B ADVISED THAT HE WAS OF INTEREST TO THIS AGENCY IN 1960
WHEN WE WERE INDIRECTLY INVOLVED IN ASSISTING IN HIS EXFILTRATION
FROM CUBA. HOWEVER, HE TOOK ASYLUM IN THE URUGUAYAN EMBASSY IN
HAVANA ON 3 JULY 1960 AND DEPARTED THE SAME DAY FOR CURACAO. AFTER
HIS ARRIVAL IN MIAMI IN FEBRUARY 1961, THIS AGENCY WAS BRIEFLY IN
CONTACT WITH HIM BUT OUR INTEREST WAS DROPPED PARTLY BECAUSE HIS
UNCLE, ONE OF THE LEADING FOUNDERS OF THE CUBAN COMMUNIST PARTY, WAS
THEN CUBAN AMBASSADOR TO YUGOSLAVIA AND ALDEREGUIA'S TRUE LOYALTIES
WERE UNKNOWN. THIS AGENCY HAS HAD NO INTEREST IN OR CONTACT WITH
ALDEREGUIA SINCE THAT TIME.

2. VLADIMIR RODRIGUEZ LAHERA OPOB 6 FEBRUARY 1937,
HAVANA, CUBA WAS A FORMER DGI STAFF OFFICER WHO DEFECTED ON 21
APRIL 1964 IN HALIFAX NOVA SCOTIA. HE WAS DEBRIEFED AND HANDLED
THROUGH NORMAL DEFECTOR CHANNELS AND WAS THE SOURCE OF NUMEROUS
CSCI'S CONCERNING THE DGI IN 1964 AND 65. HE WAS USED OPERATIONALLY
IN RECRUITMENT ATTEMPTS AGAINST DGI OFFICERS
DURING 1964-1967. HE WAS TERMINATED IN
JULY 1967, AND WAS CONSIDERED, BUT NEVER USED, FOR ANOTHER
RECRUITMENT ATTEMPT IN 1971. SINCE 1971 RODRIGUEZ HAS NOT BEEN
INVOLVED IN ANY CIA OPERATION IN MIAMI OR ELSEWHERE.

JOSEPH NORRIS IS THE ALIAS OF A
CIA REPRESENTATIVE WHO PERIODICALLY DEBRIEFS RODRIGUEZ ON PERSONALITIES
AND METHODS OF THE DGI. THERE IS NO OTHER CIA INVOLVEMENT WITH
RODRIGUEZ.
316/01514-78
3. THIS AGENCY WILL QUERY ITS REPRESENTATIVE IN MIAMI TO
DETERMINE IF HE HAS ANY ADDITIONAL INFORMATION RELEVANT TO THIS
MATTER.
SECRET
Slipe 78
901-74961

---

14-00000

SECRET
NON-AGENCY

G78 0530497
Arm 19 8 47 PM '78
PAGE 002
TOT: 080750Z APR 78
CIA 202417
RECEIVED

4. CLASSIFIED BY 012034. EXEMPT FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION
SCHEDULE OF E.O. 11652 EXEMPTION CATEGORY 5 B(2). IMPOSSIBLE TO
DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICATION.>
ORIG LA/CD/CI SPEED X1325; COORD LA/CARI BURRET;
LA/PHNC/P PORN; ADC/LA/CO KEENAN AUTH C/LAD
WARREN; REL AC/PCS/LSN KUNH CL BY 012034.

END OF MESSAGE
MAY 37
SECRET

---

14-00000
55/25/
SECRET
ADV NOTIFIED AND ISSUED LA 22142 PRECEDENCE
FRP:
STAFF
ACTION: LA-B (837) INFO: FILE, VR, DDD-4, C/PCS, CI-4, EPS/EG-2,
IP/DYS. LSN/ID, ODPD-D. SIA, SIA/IC. (25/N)

78 0527670
PAGE 001
TOR: 0722092 APR 78
IN 0527670
LMIM: 28158.

SECRET 072142Z APR 78 STAFF
CITE LA/MIAMI 28158:
TO: IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR INFO IMMEDIATE PANAMA CITY.
NIACT DIRECTOR

ANINTEL REAM
REF: LA/MIAMI 28157 0527676

IDEN A: WILLIAM WALTON
FBI SPECIAL AGENT.

IDEN B: JACK COGSWELL, A WEST PALM BEACH
RESIDENT WHO SAYS WAS A RETIRED U.S. NAVAL
INTELLIGENCE OFFICER.
E2, IMPDET.
7 Apr 18
201-749657

END OF MESSAGE
SECRET

---

14-00000
55/897
ADV NOTIFIED AND ISSUED LA 22162
SECRET
PRECEDENCE
FRP:
STAFF
ACTION: LA-8 (836) INFO: FILE, VR, DDD-G, C/PES, C/SIA, C/SIA/IC.
CI-4 EPS/EG-2, IP/DMS. LSN/ID, DDPD-D.. (25/0)

78 0527676
PAGE 001
TOR: 0722062 APR 78
IN 0527676
LMIM 28157

SECRET 0721422 APR 78 STAFF
CITE LA/MIAMI 28157
TO: IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR INFO IMMEDIATE PANAMA CITY.
NIACT DIRECTOR

ANINTEL REAM
REF: DIRECTOR 201936

1. DURING THE YEARS THAT PACHANKIS HAS BEEN IN CONTACT WITH
SLANK-1 (S-1), FORMERLY AMMUG-1, FROM 1965 TO 1978, PACHANKIS
HAS HAD NO KNOWLEDGE THAT S-1 WAS EVER IN CONTACT WITH
NVCANOPY. SINCE 1969 IT HAS BEEN PACHANKIS' UNDERSTANDING THAT
NVCANOPY HAS BEEN INFORMED EVERY TIME PACHANKIS HAS MADE AN
OPERATIONAL CALL ON A U.S. PERSON IN THE MIAMI AREA. PACHANKIS
HAS NEVER BEEN EXPOSED/INTRODUCED TO NVCANOPY IN MIAMI. PACHANKIS
HAS BEEN INTRODUCED TO NVCANOPY REPS IN NEW YORK CITY WHILE ON
TOY TO FR/NEW YORK (CIRCA 1974). PACHANKIS HAS ALSO MET AN
NVCANOPY AGENT IN NEWARK, NEW JERSEY UNDER THE ALIAS OF JOE
NORRIS.

2. PACHANKIS HAS BEEN HANDLING S-1 SINCE EARLY 1970,
SEVERAL TIMES OPERATIONS ALMOST CAME OFF BUT HQS DECIDED AT THE
LAST MINUTE TO PRESERVE S-1'S SECURITY. IN THE PAST FEW YEARS
THERE HAS NOT BEEN MUCH CONTACT WITH S-1 EXCEPT FOR A CHRISTMAS
CALL OR A ROUTINE COG REQUIREMENT.

3. SLANK-1 CALLED PACHANKIS ON 6 APRIL AND REQUESTED MEETING
TO REPORT FOLL:
A. SALVADOR ALDEREGUIA (SA) HAS BEEN S-1 FRIEND SINCE
1955 IN CUBA. THEY CONSPIRED AGAINST THE BATISTA REGIME WHILE
IN THE RANKS OF THE 26TH OF JULY MOVEMENT.

B. S-1 HAD NOT SEEN SA IN ALMOST FOUR YEARS WHEN THEY
COINCIDENTALLY MET ON A MIAMI STREET IN 1955 (LESS THAN YEAR AFTER
S-1'S DEFECTION FROM DGI). FROM 1965 UNTIL FEB/MARCH 1978, THEY
HAD INFREQUENT THOUGH CORDIAL ENCOUNTERS IN MIAMI.

C. AFTER SA'S RECENT ARREST IN MIAMI BY NVCANOPY ON
ESPIONAGE CHARGES, SA HAS SEEN A CONSTANT VISITOR TO S-1'S HOME.
SA HAS OSTENSIVELY BEEN SEEKING "TEA AND SYMPATHY" FROM S-1.
SECRET
24-799651

---

SECRET
STAFF
78 0527676
PAGE 002
TOR: 072206Z APR 78
IN 0527676
LMIM 28157

CLAIMING HE HAS BEEN FRAMED BY NVCANOPY. WHILE S-1 DOES NOT
BELIEVE SA, S-1'S "CI MIND AND CURIOSITY HAVE COMPELLED HIM
TO CONTINUE CONTACT WITH SA IN RECENT WEEKS SA HAS INTRODUCED
S-1 TO IDENS A AND B.

4. S-1 WANTS TWO POINTS MADE CLEAR TO RTACTION AND NVCANOPY.
ONE, S-1 HAS NEVER BEEN INVOLVED IN SA'S APPARENT ESPIONAGE
ACTIVITIES. TWO, S-1 VOLUNTEERS TO SERVE AS SA'S CONFIDANT IF
NVCANOPY AND/OR RTACTION CONSIDER S-1 CAN DO GOOD IN SUCH A
ROLE. PLEASE ADVISE.

5. STATION HAS NO FILES ON S-1 AND THEREFORE CANNOT COMMENT
ON NVCANOPY KNOWLEDGE OF RTACTION'S PAST RELATIONSHIP WITH S-1.
IT IS OUR UNDERSTANDING THAT NVCANOPY HAS BEEN INFORMED OF
PACHANKIS ACTIVITIES IN ALIAS JOE NORRIS FOR THE PAST SEVERAL
YEARS AT THE HQS LEVEL.

6. FILE: 231-(SLANK-1). E2, IMPOET.

END OF MESSAGE
SECRET
coria

---

14 0000
Colvin
SPOB (Spic Payroll)
X2125
called
SLANK/1 (201-749651) formerly encrypted AMMUG/1-
He has old (160C775). MOC which not touched since
AUG/76 and wants to know status & case
is SLANK!!
is he terminated-etc.
case handled
by Pachankis
being paid.
will chick
file
in Melissa Walsh name.
RH
13 Apr 77
Vadimir RODRIGUEZ LATERA
SLANK!! trulnak m
is still
15 April 77 that SCANkli
contact, not i
receiving
* Informed "Celvin"
active
but could be paid it s when used in
operations.
after calary,
ho problems here. SPOB will keep his contract in
active foldet:
15 Apr -7

---

14-00000
NOTE:
30 JUL 1976
WE WILL NOT ASK FOR A DEVISED FACILITY FOR SLANK/1 UNTIL
IT IS DETERMINED HE WILL BE USED AGAIN.
LA/COG/EA

---

14-00000
SECRET

MEMORANDUM OF ORAL COMMITMENT

SUBJECT: Engagement of SLANK-1 (201-749651)

1. Term and Project Charge: Subject has been engaged
under oral contract for use under Project SLEEPER. The
effective date of the oral contract is 16 Oct 1975.

2. Security Approval: An OA for the operational use of
Subject outside the U.S. was granted on 6 Jan 1971.

3. Citizenship: Subject is a United States Citizen.

4. Compensation: Subject is reimbursed for travel expenses
and is given a salary replacement for any time he is required
to be sent form work at the request of the Agency. The
salary reimbursement will not exceed $40 a day. He may be
awarded cash bonuses for services rendered. He may also
be given gifts from time to time, the individual value
of which will not exceed $50.

5. Taxes: Subject is obligated to pay U.S. taxes and
should be issued a Devised Facility Form 1099 at the end
of each tax year.

6. Quarters and/or Subsistence:
a. Subject is not furnished quarters or subsistence.
b. No commitments have been made regarding additional
compensation to accommodate increased cost of living and
quarters expenses.

7. Operational Expenses: Subject will be reimbursed for
operational expenses such as entertainment of operational
contacts, phone calls, cover expenses, etc., upon
submission of proper accounting for such expenses.
SECRET
LX-4200
167gel76
E2, IMPDET
CL BY: 025231
4/6/18
RECORD COPY
2017
749651

---

14-00000
SECRET

8. Contingent Obligations:
Although no commitment to
this effect has been made to Subject, should the security
of Subject or his family become threatened because of
activities undertaken by him at the request of this
Agency, this Agency would have an obligation to reimburse
Subject for expenses required to reduce that threat,
including expenses needed to relocate Subject and his
family and, if necessary, to supplement his income while
he is establishing a new residence and employment.

9. No commitments other than those stated above have
been made to Subject.

SIGNED:
Case Officer

REVIEWED: APPROVED:

Field Contracting Officer

Attachment:
Non-Staff Personnel Data Sheet

Distribution:
Orig & 2 - LA/Personnel w/att
I - Vital Documents w/att
1 - LA/COG/Chrono
1 - 201-749651
1 - LA/B&F

SECRET

---

14 00000
SECRET
NON-STAFF PERSONNEL DATA SHEET
DATE
16 July 76
INSTRUCTIONS: 1. SUBMIT FOR:
A. CONTRACT EMPLOYEES (TYPE A. B AND CAREER)
B. INDEPENDENT CONTRACTORS UNDER WRITTEN CONTRACT OR MOC (US CITIZENS OF
RESIDENT ALIENS ONLY)
2. THIS FORM IS NOT APPLICABLE FOR OPERATIONAL OR FIELD AGENTS
3. COPIES OF THE FORM WILL BE RETAINED BY THE ORIGINATING COMPONENT (NUMBER
OF COPIES AT ITS DISCRETION) AND BY CSPS/AGENT BRANCH (I COPY ONLY)
NAME (LAST.FIRST.MIDDLE) SEX
RODRIGUEZ LaHera, Vladimir M
MARITAL STATUS NO. DEPENDENTS DATE OF BIRTH YEAR(S) OF BIRTH NATIONALITY
M 3 (wife) 6 Feb 1937 2 Jun 1937 U.S.
24 Aug 1934
JOB TITLE COMPONENT LAST MEDICAL EXAM
DATE
OF LATEST SECURITY/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
Amended OA 7 Jan 1971
CONTRACT CATEGORY EFFECTIVE DATE EXPIRATION DATE SALARY GRADE EQUIVALENT PROJECT OR FAN O
B 16 Oct 75 Indefinite
BENEFITS
SOCIAL SECURITY X
FECA DEATH AND DISABILITY X
ANNUAL AND SICK LEAVE X
CIVIL SERVICE RETIREMENT X
CIA RETIREMENT OR COMMERCIAL CIA ANNUITY X
FEDERAL EMPLOYEES GROUP LIFE X
AND HEALTH INSURANCE
CONTRACT LIFE AND HEALTH INSURANCE X
MISSING PERSONS BENEFITS X
OTHER (EXPLAIN) If forced to move for security reasons
CIA would help with expenses.
NON CIA EDUCATION
Escuela Publica #46 1st 6th Grade
Primaria Superior #19 7th 8th Grade
Artes y Oficios (Construcion Civil) 1 Year
Instituto de Habana 2 years toward bachelor degree
DATES EMPLOYER NON-CIA EMPLOYMENT FUNCTION SALARY
FROM TO LOCATION
Aug 63-Apr 64 Ministry of Foreign Havana, Cuba Intel Off
Relations
May 65-Dec 66 Scheaffer Advertising Co Miami, Fla Market Re- $600 mo.
searcher
Dec 66-CA Dec 74 Marriot Corp Miami, Fla
Dec 74-Present Metro Transit Authority Miami, Fla Bus Driver $13,000 yr.
DATES CIA TRAINING
FROM TO CIA EMPLOYMENT HISTORY (BEGINNING WITH EOD) FUNCTION CONTR. LOCATION PROJECT GRADE SALARY
CAT. EQUIV.
Apr 64-Nov 67 Agent - B Washington AMMUG $600 mo.
D.C. & Miami
Jan 69-Present Informant B Miami, Fla SLEEPER WAE

---

14-00000
SECRET
SECURITY
FACTORS AFFECTING SUBJECT (PUBLICOSURE FRESS. RADIO, TV) KNOWN OR SUSE EC IDENTIFICATION TO OTHER THAN
CIA STAFF PERSONNEL INTELLIGENCE SECURITY SERVICES
Cuban Intelligence Service
PRESENT COVER IS: OFFICIAL DIVISION EVALUATION OF COVER
COVER NON-OFFICIAL
At present, subject is not involved in any activities
require him to use a cover. If and when he travels abroad, he
will use business or personal cover appropriate to the mission
involved.
EVALUATION OF PERFORMANCE:
ADAPTABILITY (SUBJECT AND FAMILY) TOWARDS DUAL LIFE
B. PREVIOUS COVER WAS: OFFICIAL NON-OFFICIAL (GIVE BRIEF DESCRIPTION IF NOC)
MOCILITY
INDICATE LIMITING FACTORS BOTH PERSONAL AND OPERATIONAL
No known limiting factors
FUTURE UTILIZATION
INDICATE PLANS OR RECOMMENDATIONS FOR USE AFTER CURRENT ASSIGNMENT
Headquarters plans to use Subject to contact and approach
Cubans of operational interest to LA/COG.

---

14-00000
Pls Pouch to
pos
SECRET
28 April 1976

0201-749651
For the Record: SLANK-1 (S-1) has purchased a
2931 SW 19th Terrace
Miami, Florida
tel: (305) 443-3027.
AYROGRAM
PER☑ASTRACT
DLA
FOR FOMING
7.2.3
034DEN (11)
NEB (3)
FOR FILING
24/4/01
Henry S. PACHANKIS.
SECRET
RECORD COPY
at:
4X-4130
28Apr 76
201-749651

---

SECRET
27 March meeting, PACHANKIS discussed latest
requirements with SLANK-1 (S-1).
S-1 not seen S-1 (-1) since C.
updated assessment. S-1 does not know
ition.
thus unabl
's-wit
ide
3%
5.
6.
S-1 considers highly improbable 2-1 would accept private meeting
via phone. F-1 could be suspicious of S-1's motives and Fight
round up own welcoming committee for confrontation.
S-1 confidant a direct street meeting one on one-would offer
best opportunity to communicate Agency offer to F-1.
S-1's second choice, would be home approach, were it known P-1 was.
alone or only with wife..
splan.
Who can adapt
Postal Station name/
S-1 is disciplined, discreet, devoted, plucky profes
Prepared math upt
States will go anywhere; anytime to cooperate.
5 days sick leave without pay to particinate approach to-1.
Could leave Miami on Saturday, returning latest Sunday following.
S-1 needs c. 1 weeks
week. S-1 is Amcit and his US passport.
prior notice to prepare for CARACAS PDT.
S-1 reviewed names of Cubans on latest Diplomatic List.
positive was: Norberto HERNANDE Curbelo (the Ambussider
former DGI colleague of 5-1.
Only
who
Henry 6. PACHANKIS.
fil SCAVU-! 20i

---

14-00000
SECRET
3 February 1976.

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: SLANK-1

In reviewing SLANK-1's file for possible leads to targets
of interest the following names were selected:

1. Roberto RODRIGUEZ Llompart (201-865547)

2. Ricardo ESPINO Martinez (201-818437)

3. Federico CRESPO Moreira (201-894397).
(in Peru since January 1973)

4. Rafael MIRABAL Fernandez (KDACOUSTIC-1) (201-812117)
(Mexico February 1967)

5. Manuel CARDONELL Duque (201-279604).
(Capt. Pol. worked with M-1)

6. Armando "Ulises" ESTRADA Fernandez (201-809440)

7. Ramon Cesar CUENCA Mintoto (201-328945)
(PCS Caracas - October 75 (DGI) )

8. Roque DALTON Garcia (201-215097)
(DSE now in Havana)

Individual files of subject now being reviewed. If one or several
of these subjects appears recruitable, a plan will be written up
explaining "plan of action."

Wilfred CLOWER
E2 IMPEET
CL BY 025231

SECRET
3 Fet 76

---

17-00000
18 November 1975

SUBJECT: Change of Address and Phone of SLANK-1 (S-1)

1. S-1 has informed me via a letter to my PO Box that he has
moved once again and has a new phone. Please record:

610 SW 19th Road
Miami
telephone (305) 858-3043.
HSP

---

14-00000
29 October 1975

SUBJECT: Contact Report on SLANK-1 (S-1)
Ref: DIR 759487

1. S-1 was met on the evening of 28 October, at his Miami
apartment, to inform him of the following:

A. His old DGI chum, Ramon Cesar CUENCA Montoto
appeared to be settling down for an extended stay
in Caracas.

B. Consequently, our people had decided to study him
in depth and decide at a later date what action, if
any, could or should be taken against him. i.e.
to pitch or not to pitch.

C. Our office had asked me to thank him for his offer
to assist in any operation and would keep him in
mind in any future plans. S-1 was grateful to hear
these words and reiterated his willingness/availability
to help out in this or any other Operation.
I thought this to be the most diplomatic and effective way
to treat this issue. I wanted to give him an answer yet not
say we didn't think him the most likely candidate. S-1 has
always been PRESENT when we needed volunteers. He longs to
get back in the "business" and there is no doubt he can do
the job. They don't come any "gutsier." We never know when
we'll need him and its good to know he is there.

Henry S. PACHANKIS.
For Blank-1
201-749657
29 OCT 75

---

14-00000
PRIORITY - PLEASE
Pf. DIE 754594
•CRAS 2826S-
16 October 1975

SUBJECT: Contact Report on SLANK-1 (S-1)

2. S-1 was visited on the evening of 15 October, at his new
address (5501 NW 7th St, apt 1065) same phone (443-5463)
to discuss recent HQS requirements.

3. S-1 was excited to learn his old boss: Ramon Cesar CUENCA
Montoto is in Caracas. "I just knew he had to be there because
the Cuban Ambassador (Norberto HERNANDEZ Curbelo) was my boss
in the DGI c. 1963-64) and Cesar' was above us both."
(In other words, in c. 1963-64 CUENCA was superior in rank
to both S-1 and HERNANDEZ -the present Cuban Ambassador to
Venezuela.) (CHENCA was know as Cesar to his coworkers/friends).

4. S-1 is seriously ready, willing and able to partake in any
Agency Operation against CUENCA and/or HERNANDEZ. S-1 is an
AMCIT and has a valid US passport. His only consideration is
obtaining the proper permission from his employers. This is
a matter which the Agency MUST solicit for him.

5. As previously reported, 3-1 workes for:
Metro Transit Authority
3300 NW 32. Avenue, Miami.
(bus driver)
The persons to be contacted at MTA, to grant S-1 the necessary
leave are:
Mr. FNU CROSS and
Mr. M. C. BUTLER

6. The ball is in our court. You cannot ask for a more dedicated/
motivated/educated (re the DGI) than S-1. S-1 will be ready to
travel the minute Agency obtains necessary permission from MTA.

Re: "FERNANDEX" -the Yemen bised Cuban military instructor-
S-1 reports NEGATIVE. (SLARSTICK-1 had previously reported NEGATIVE)

Whatever decision HQS takes, would appreciate being informed
so we can notify S-1. He is most dedicated/valuable assest
and we owe him this courtesy. In past, he has been alerted and
we have failed to notify him of abortions, and left him hanging
in mid air.

Henry S. PACHANKIS.
Fortling
201-74965
16 Oct 75

---

Henry B.
he
201-74965K IF
5. SEANK-1
201-749631

---

14-00000
3.
28 February 1975

SUBJECT: Contact Report on SLANK-1. (S-1)

S-1, was contacted on the evening of 27 February, at his
Miami home (2761 SW 24th Terrace, tel: 443-0155) re his
availability to approach his old friend, Roberto RODRIGUEZ
Llompart.

As on all previous occasions when we have asked for S-1's
collaboration, S-1's answer was AFFIRMATIVE. The only
condition is that we obtain his employer's permission to
be absent from his present job. He is not entitled to
vacation until c. August 1975.

5-1 is presently employed as a bus driver for the:
Metro Transit Authority
3300 NW 32nd Avenue
Miami.
Tel: 633-9736.

The persons who must grant the permission are, in this
order of rank:
.H. I. CROSS
B. L. WALLACE
M. C. BUTLER

S-1 has a valid US passport. And, he can be available to
travel the moment his superiors grant him the leave without
pay we request.

I have again thanked him for his sincere/loyal cooperation.
I have promised to keep him abreast of developments.

Henry S. PACHANKIS.

---

14-00000
FORM 30206.
7-71 MFG. 3/78
-3
CABLE SEC DISSEM
PERSON. UNIT NOTIFIED
VANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED
ACTION. UNIT
CAIO
:FILE
ACTION
F
18%
SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
STAFF
T 822297
EI A861
PAGE 01
TOR:2818572 FEB 75
LMIM
IN 509121
23060
SECRET 2618302 FEB 75 STAFF
CITE LA/MIAMI 23260 (ENNIS ACTING)
TO: DIRECTOR.
REAM
REF: DIRECTOR 661106

1. SLANK-1 CONTACTED BY PACHANKIS 27 FEB 75.

2. AS IN THE PAST, S-1 INDICATED HE IS WILLING
TO MAKE AN APPROACH TO SUBJECT. PER REF. S-1 IS NOW
EMPLOYED WITH THE LOCAL METRO TRANSIT AUTHORITY AND IS,
NOT DUE A VACATION UNTIL AFTER MID-1975; THEREFORE ANY
ABSENCE FROM WORK MUST BE REQUESTED BY OKHERALD AND
"APPROVED BY ANY ONE OF HIS SUPERIORS (H.I. CROSS,
B.L. KALLACE; M.C. BUTLER IN ORDER OF DESCENDING
AUTHORITY).

3. S-1 HAS VALID U.S. PASSPORT AND CAN TRAVEL
WHEN NEEDED.

4. FILE: 281-2749651. E2, IMPDET.
.LAK/FI
RECORD COPY
Wint
SECRET
285EB75
201-749651

---

00000.
ፒ.
2.
OMF 0
OUTGOING MESSAGE
SIGNAL CENTER USE ONA
com
ACP
0 0 0 0
TOG
гре
0
MAC
0
DCI
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
MESSAGE MANOS ING INDICATOR
STAFF
BE TIME GROUP
2621032
CONF: LA 10
INFO: FILE
TO: LA/MIAMI.Y
REAM Y
DIRECTOR
13-1
CITE
PAGE
OF
PAGE
1
MESSAGE REFERENCE HUNDR
661156
DISSEM BY:
0
INDEX
0
NO INDEX
RETURN TO
PER
0
FILAS
38.
1. HQS CONSIDERING POSSIBILITY OF USING VLADIMIR RODRIGUEZ LAHERA/(201-74965