```markdown
14-00000

104-10226-10023 [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

5 . Diss are at
ol i. ony 7 ' ve OSTE i
wae) mos role a) MATERIAL . Senet :
: 1 OCHS DOW MENR US CHARGED TO YOU. . a recs
: .
i 2b N THES DOCEMENE TO EP/VRCUIVES & Doe
: PISPOSELION SECTION, RM GEESE ON OR BEFORE ae
PATE INDICATED, CA
3 1k YOU FORWARD THES DOCUMENT TO ANOTHER ed
INDIVIDUAL PLEASE CALL EXTENSION 228.0 07 _ ..

DO NOT REMOVE THIS FORM

Te 179 use eae vicus e OrTLONS.

DO NOT REMOVE ANY PAPERS OR
MUTILATE FOLDER.

Fogarty
OD bee enue. pol.
4s. Cor€e .,
a oi
. :

a

i amet ne lL ed IM iL Ma de a he i Ltt ddl We fal tah oid Be

POLDER: _f a

REAURN TO - 6

£ /ARL Re: ose

wf

km oe

—— et : .

ror 610 secret = CONF DENTAL Cy INRMAL —)UNCLASSIFLED p

ry) +3 pee wer ug re era a
7 - * a

vem
BS Rae tar

‘m.
{ seqraceg

“A

{
i
Fe “9 $ j : “8
+ A ry & *, .

J}
a

}

14-00000

UND Cle Convervation at tue venartsmnt of ta on 2b carch L/5e. .
Lr gait were jeserr. voye., Prébasan. aot pouser Lion
Lua svt sloner, Lloyd ane orion frou he

o frebemer. o3¢ Sut raturmne fra 9 tts arrose? ant pald
He nad tires cvveaus to nake alaul iv. 22 arose Vicy ware
a: Tollowss

te Ho celt wet in tre Crock (..tacers, . ve Peed ant ottiors
complainei af ae activitioc a. t.9 eurincers ef +. luese
terinwer., .6 of, sanetime. ..ett as overt st au lornes am
wint Uo omzastige 1f giver countrie: rottin .6 yer. with refuress
win ub clearing ete. tre oe 6. fo kaos. it Ltowantrr. clener
woke gtr oT, fay 27 bat ins uc bolt Tay Lane seweral
tines trash be 7 reuorters sbOr in cite. .@ sail teat ne
wo-lda pevest Wace worriae. tinh wie views «5 2/ endof V4
wore ldantiea: o4 %e rouls.. fiabs an a. We Gbhocues waar

Grab of tit aioe Peers in reC8 WO War LIST Ve ee Danton. kl
geet peeifie

an! tanth ewe erway cai how le 9 be
cmoslom, if mt ws 8 ot, WAS COhvod for 4

20 Frtman wis
around ‘er
wititn xr @s. & 0
1 CONOR LO Me
tre MMbenw a ore.
‘weevar, ineurmicwec oc
fin W warm wer esp (mec

.2"a, BCVET LLRs
rite am ras

Tt) fed &

tee FU
vherun
ete eat te dsbrce
unite. 6, cra-

w infi.trate

Clete in poy Be os wee
GP oorean Bau -
Fo t. idee? BOt oh. PaPEV : Gt.

3.0 re toe eee
aptiian th
ruidanec, 3% .7a: : fa.
woud te Lc Tre r ior rn a

fet Weer oa oer bdey

14-00000

replied tust in fact 1S did receive constant and frequent i oliey
guidance but tial the wawbers oF tio ta. etaff of Ket wory Looking
for tie type of policy ruldance wile: did fot ode - a kind of
overall ;lobal stratesy coverin, e-caltie Ineldents and eventuall-
ties, a bind of polfe, vuldanee wien . rolally neltuer wid oor
soula be written. “veeliieally ne had a oljectlon to s.owlay tis

_ tye peale ¥o4 solkey Lae,

Fimalli, jere Koller quectioned the advisa dlity of ,ubting the
new pupsian Gaiilttee under tie Urusade. Ho pointed out is fear
tuat, wat wile AY and AFA acready wukler tag Crusade, io Congress
would won believe thore was cotiing tele for VA to cover. tire Joyce
rose to taln guoction oxrlatnin: the nvecosity of nelping Adairal Kirk
to tind sae covare He pointed out biat fesurs. brafen and Levine
nad been detailed to acainm that crusade jabLliclty did not cive the
diprescion tiuat #PE an! ici and ay new" rivate” racle wuld obviato
‘the necessity for the Volov, and assure! £9 lor tuar all Crusade
publichty, posterg otc. would avold ils jos.lidiite. «Laner mene
tloned nico ceulro to tind t:er cover for ti: new Cormittes ari
thare vos som: talk of founmistiois. Wy tettor cover at, owever,
teen found at tie wanent and it was a parcnt that Acairal airk suat
have some anower to quautions wile: arn gutaltled te ulre fre nucler
anowored thie arrcument by reiterating his foars.

TiVAT be HRADRG
ciulef
siiional “reanlgathons Mv.den

ch: N.B/eh

Orig - OC (thru abies Ph!)
ec = DD/r

ec « F (Mr. Yoor)

coo ty

ce + Cig

ec >

Nee ee

ae.

14-00000 . a!

. 10/52

Me. Wimmer -.
on informtion copy of Ictter sent
Vy Mr. Jackson tolay. Mr. DLamewcod
de receiving a copy via regular channels,

¥M.Mocrus

oF Perl

varch 10, 1952

: Dear fensignor Vargaie
. . 4a I wind ip oy year with the Rational Comtttes for
@ Free furope, I thought 4% appropriate to send you a lctter o-.

. not a isttor of farwsoll, but ratner sone thoughts on the
: Hungarian “ational Cowil aa 1 hive olcerved it during the years

. . In tha first place, I vould like to eongratulate you
. - gad your associates en having done en oxtreordinary job of
bolding a very volutilo situation together. In fact, 1+ cao
& wile job, and one whose valuo we may never fully
because so ming of the benefite are intangible.

I hope, therefore, that you will eatinue to work vith
J will to hold the Council togetner, ap it would
present 2 very serious provlen to sdxiral tiller 1f tho
Kungazian croup ‘are to fall aparte

I would also lito to con:ratulcte you on tao effective .
work the repessentetivos of the iumarian jationsl Council

have done abroad, particularly in Trance and Ceruanys You

imow how inportent £ consider tals work. It esers to mo tas

the real task and duty of a «ational Council 1a to help tha

e@diles, and the front linca of this work are in Europes

isido from the obvious necessities of food, clothing,
shelter, the most impartant aspect of tne work de vhal, I would
call a “consular” service, as these poor pespls cdo net know
where ar how to turn. in this consulear-type work, I think tzat
General Hemryey and re Auer havo been doing an excellent job,
amd gy persons] feclincs in this matter are cag-lrtely cone

by

To my way of thinkins, exile political mtters in Sou
Yor and vashiin ton ahould take a definitely second place to

neat it ena

i rt rma ace annie Se A

Slave this is an honest letter, and not just pro-ferms

appreciation by a retiring iresident, I must aloo, wafortunately,
Pleasante

dnolude sone observations that ore not 29

I resenber very early in py work with EliF, that you
taught mo the political moanin; of the vord “polarization”,
end since thm 1 havo hed arple oppor sani ty. in the Hungarian

National Council to seo polarisation at works wore

NCsE hag croun in the past yeer inte a large organisatios
engaged ta Berlous work, snd frequently proving ite eftectives
wens behind the izen Curtaine To put it. motacr way,
the past year Ulf. has evolved from just a hope into a profeessional
weapon i the var eyainst tme enaye Theretore, cctivities

Adnival Hiller agrees’ with me ompletely on this palit,
and intends to take such ection fron tie to tine og my be
nesssoIry 20 oduiar such octivities when they cocur,

Bowever, I recognise tht it 4s not enouwh for SCE
te take wilaterol attion. +o must to assisted by yeu ond
theee of your asncelates und understand who the real onery is,
and are willing to subordinate fratrioidal strife, polarising

attespts, and disloyal sctivitias.
* . @ r)

I fully realises that these aro nothing bat big words
wilees I can illustrate thea more specifically.

I have ia ty poescesion enough illustratians to fill a
Volum, but i would liky te selcct three in particular to
mention in this letter, noi becawe 1 have any particular
desire to single su’ the individualo comoerned for censure,
gather because what they hive done not milly illeotrates
the point I an tryinz to maces but aloo reveals an attitude
ef mind which fs prestically incomwonensidle to an Anoricaa
working for a great causes

i

Tho fret case that 1 have in mind is that of Dre
Ferenc Saye
Lost Fetruary, tre tagy wrote a latter to ‘re Frank 3,

Land of Kmmeas City, Fissourl, complaining bitterly about the
Rational Comdttes for a Free Burcpo, accusing it ef *mapparting :

--- Page 46 ---

14-00000

a

« Land to advice bia a5 to how this oltmtion could

Rr,
be breu:ht to ‘the attention of rresident Trumm in orier to
heve hin do sametiing apwt it, 4s a + of that lettar,

shite Heavse cheak with Miz, an Aerican orpeniastion, we to

co Bre Bagy acerad to uneretaend vhat 1 tried to explaia
te hin, and with what I consicered comilete honesty and sinecrit7,
his

I havo never evar mentioned it to yous

ire Racy haa once again written to iresident Tramn
this tim: directly, ind once again ine tite House bas vent
go the

:

I consider that by. ary has troken hie pledge, and
I am free to tell you acout the ineident.

This tire, altnowh tho words of "ir, Nagy ere sore
tecperate, the Belady is the exw -- dissativfaction with uhst

I cannot help cowwntins at this point that ia the
Bungarian National Council toere is probably co cae wo hee

contributed nore to “intre-—omittos cantroversien* than Hr.
Bagy Aicelf. Furthernare, en analysis of fre Hacy's dofiniticn
of “Yonwernts and reactisnsrico” would be extremely interesting. .
It mi-ht buve bean mare secmrete had ho said “people who :
swpported By Covortmant in Li? and overytody alse".

4B to the miter af ay exile cawtittco, whether the
Eum-arian National Council cr -re Sagyte Central Lastern

_- Lumwpeun Comaittes, Calne allie w “guarentice’ +9 the people

"3. Behind the iran curtain thes prousdsco would to carried out,
Rr, Bagy'a statamnt is elise Srivolous or preposteress,

Rr. Hagy uiads uw uit a rewuest test tie President
etve his blesain; to ire Lacs oooposed soper-comilttea -—
the Central : astern buropess camditiee — tiich ruprosents
"a total majority of FO to Qe af tae entire population of
Central buster Larepe.*

Ian frankly fascinated ty the processes of Mre Uaryts
sint, I oannot believe that all he thinks apowt is tho promotion
of Leftioh Kungarcan politicias in cxilo. I emmot talisve
that es a human being ho does mt Sec] some cease of respansie
bility teward Hur? and the iuqrarian dational council, who
have monta after month helped kize I do net vic to sound
cremtic, I do not asz for tats, and I an not. sugrestiag .
thst in return for our bal> wa Lave an oblization of a quid
FRO cude but 1 do say thas tds <ucgilon of loyalty does
arise, aad the -uestion af roqenaiallity is very reale

Farthermore, Fir. Saucy bas been in this comtry long
enough mo to wrierstamd tiss tris Kind of intriguing is a
Gistressing irritation to eraryens, incluting tio chite Housi.s

a a °

ro)

Ry secomd ilinstrutioan alae eoacerns Hr. Kacy. fre Baggy
recently sat s telecras to >. -ossewfly, of witeh tao follow.
ans is a teupalation, I bave toe srizinal inmyrian if you
care to soo ite

PYG Rail oUBRUTYEO ve cs LOAED OF THE IGM Yorg
RADIG FUE MuRCr: RAS LF YW STAFE Be XLiBSe
BrAQr AMha Gaidec, sfarte BANCLY ABEUS, LAJOS
HAIASZ, SOLS0 SAIY, Fs25a STNIBALCS, PES L VARTA

: STOP COMLL.420B7 SE: Peek TAT CHL BADIO STATIN
LEKOGASTS IS THE AAS CF Ms INHMAGATIC HiGDARIAN
EXRISS, I AS THS ¢aeG2 OT cf TE LP PASAET vi. TRATION
CALL TER MGS CF TEs MChitIGaL CCHMIITTZ £O
DA DUATLLY FOUR sASTCE Take SLUTS 1S ACC YTABIB
To we

--- Page 47 ---

14-0000

ite

o5e

Agnin I wewld like to imow titst is podag trou Are
Kagy'o mints

RCFE, an tnerican orpasisation, hired Hr. -csseufly
te te to responzibls hesd of ite ifuncarian leak in marichs
tire ieaseutty ras 6 very careful choice after weeka of consule
tatdon on both cites of the Atlantic. lils specific instructions
wore that tie Aumich .csk should be staffed by people

geusesed for frertocal camctente, excludin:, of cured,
OD 5 aD

At the oune tine, 1t was felt that the BC7E kad permitted
political arfiliction to overshadou fimetional cometence ia
the iew York Hungarian .<ok, and the tow York coax simply
wasn't eny good, Tnarefore, the ew York beak and the /amieh
test had to Le bronjrt inte aligmente So Hr. -saseutfy uas
emt to America avi vas iven tic sesponsibllity of biring the
Recessary persomel — and ih Koy York wos instrusted to to apply
the sane yardstick that he spplied in itmiche

whem Hr, Deesexffy had fulfilled bis ew York teak,
again after tho most serious coneliloration of all the angles
Aanvolved in each one of iio choices, ir. Nacy emt his the
telegran (uoted azere aa thouzh ‘ie acy .ere in the spe pose
to control, or at least to voto, the mocborahip of the

Does hr. acy really believe that he is in that
position? Gr is tds pure polarisation. 45 we all know, this
is 4 move directed azainst ire Collert, who dove not heen
to hove the suns political coloration ag :s, liagye Ina
recent conversation 1.10 ir. Mary, 1 asked hin if the telerram
would hve bean sent if i+ cellert bad act deen seloctedy end

he adzitted tnat it would rot huva boon scnte

There 4e an additions] intereating alonent in thi,
jn tat ire Hay calls for a vole ao the irexident of the

end international wiuty in arder to bring about the Liberation

--- Page 48 ---

14-0000
The third cases I wild lik to moution concarms Nre
Zoltan Praiffere

After “re Lesseuffy mde his salections for ‘ne Eow
Yorke teak, Ire Pieiffor rot in toush with hin to protest
the faot thet in oelecting Ire Collert, I're ienseuffy nad been

thinl to the ‘zallnoLicrs Party, deh because “re

\eauewlly had formeriz Leu a Saber of that partys expscted a
clean eyeep of the Hes York Deak, irrespestiva funetional
camctences tit. Fielffer farthor stated ~— tat this is the really
inportent point -- tzat because of the appointment of He
Oellert, fire Pfeiffer would havo to "atte-k" it, cesseuffy fron
Row en, wherever and wameover possible; in shart, a detlaratian
of ware .

Again, I would like to mierstand itr. Pfaifforta

pestal processeze “ho coog he think ho is? bhhere docs he think
he ip? This 49 a ver7 serious world, and not a iufolf Prinl
Gperettae Mre Fieiffer is not in ianispest conducting a politieal
campaicn against a wurvard merber ef a Lofteuins party. Hre
Ffolfcer Ja in Hew Zcrz, an asacolate of UCIT, with every
Opportumity to have his opinion beard and his influence felte
Dab after a decision has theo mide, in pood faith and after
long cvasideration, to aexmloy a ma Leoause of his cametence
to daa job, 1¢ is %, ifeifier's responsibility as on assealates
of tho came organisation to help thst ma dp bis werk, and

not to inculce in declarations of war in cider to disrupt the

I hope tat somehow or otter, 1% will ic possible for
te yor membership (iat Bit docs not intend

to te hampered ar sabutaged vy exile political mnewwing.

I also hope thet you will ve able to perouads your
copatriote that insafar as Wi oan interpret Lede paliey,

--- Page 49 ---

14-0000

Te

it belicves that the “overment of the inited Staten,
forvard to the overtual Uderation of unary,

With reneyed thanks far your highly successful work
in the past, and the furvent scope that you will be owually
sesceaaful .

Geo De daakeon

Henad gor Bela Varga

227 Kast fond Strest
Seu Yor, He Yo

--- Page 50 ---

14-0000
ee ee ee aS Metre beh Le ade nity,

14-0000
2h, . syeesy Ff aeees
wd .

ae

we .
: ; o

- . eeu
. (TD Mareh 1952

MEMORANDUM FOR: ASSISTANT DIRECTOR FOR POLICY COORTINATION
- SUBJECT NCEE

1. For quite some time the etaf! officers of this diviaion concerned
with utilising the racitlities of the NC:i and with-oxploiting the
Albanian, Bulgarian, and Rumanian emigrations have been aware of a lack
of adequate coordination between our own activities and those of the %
NCFE statf. in conjunction with those +I Civision officers responsible
for handling our relations with that organisation, we have atteapted
te explore the problem in order to find a solution which could be
considered realistic and practical.

2. The difficulty. lies not only in the communication system between
OPC and NCFE, which does not always tranamit, at exactly the right tine,
the right ideas from cne organisation to the proper individuals at the
right level .n the other. Althowsh uc Havs maintained very. close contact
, both informally and through formal channels, only too often we have not ;
been in a position to learn why NC°E staff officers have made a givon decis- t
ion in regard to some emigre organization in which wa had an interest; and :
on the other hand, our desirea and needa have not always been fully under- fo
stood or accepted in New York. Again, it has happened that we were :
ignorant of developments that closely affected ovr operations until it
was too late for us to maxe o-r influence felt, and, correspondingly,
. it must be admitted that we have ourselves pushed ahead with courses of
action without adequately brieting the NCFL. Tne most extreme case in
point known to us concerns the Rumanian exigration, where we and NCFE
are now pursuing conilicting policies. he upshot of thia has deen the
gradual development of a situation wherein Orc is supporting an organisa-
tion, the NCkc, which is not fully responsive to it.

- 3. Thia situation is not regarded by us as reflecting any fundamental
inadequacy in NCFc, or as presenting any ingoluable difficulty. ‘There
exists a problem in staff interrelationship which ean and should be
resolved by a reform in our organigational ap.rosch, The goal toward which
we believe we should work is one where OrC communication with NCIE would
de channelled directly along a single high-level line which wo-ld firmly 1
tie in AcrC's office with thit of the head of the other organisation, :
Iseas, suggestions, information, etc. would flow, in the regular channels,
up from the 0?7C working level to AT?C's office for review ans transmiasion
to the top office of NC*s, and flow down from there through YFS's usual ;
channels to the proper individuals in its.operational machinery. Yersonal
contacts between individuals at a lower level in the two organisations i
would frequently occur to supplement this usual cranneal, when security ‘ ~
permitted, but should be in the hands of responsible personnel who
understand the OPC policies involved.

Le is the first

a4

--- Page 51 ---

14-0000
sgafan ee = ple Ee nmr ns OE

Shwe

experiencai, knowled,eadle, high-level ClA ofiicer

be stationed in the hCrs organisation to work
directly with Admiral Miller. ior cover purposes he would carry the
title of Deputy to the rreaident, but there should be no doudt in the
minéa of the NCIE tov echelon as to his complete identity with cla,
Because his sole task-would be to represont A'rc's interests, he should
mt normally be in the NCYS chain of command, should not de paid by that
organization, and should not be made responsirle ror any given WC:£
function or activity. e visualize his tunction a that of a representa-
tive charged with exysleining end representing CIA's intereets, functioning
as & chsnnel of inforzation about the organization to which he is
accredited, and controliing all liaison between the two. In our opinien,
the establishment of thia post, with a suitable individual assigned to the
2Job, would immediately correct most of the present difficulties, and would
provide the necessary machinery within which a fully satisfactory relations
stip botween CPC and \C:= eould develop.

een me

GRATIAN HM. YATLLVITCH
Deputy tor Pelicy Coordination, SS

88/P0/ocsre§j

Dietrioetion:
Addresses = Orig. 1
SD/RE = 2
Se/70 - 2

LY = 1 CPtm Keates )

--- Page 52 ---

2 CIA's -

an aoatd ii CRS

Ww] aan my Cte Qe .
apt 4 re rl

£) perl dia Se tots _

ouan. NCaE
ha. 9 Bets tht:
i} Codwiaahe. Ra bn

--- Page 53 ---

14-00000
en AON mR Mah hn VAT Rett oe oh at a cesta BER MAN LL er oie ate kee er c0tr Son we banana MIR eA ARERR TT hela

mae w. sfoad Le 7 un pote.
te da ,
oS Pe ,
ely

oar ne Dr «
a /A- Coond . Com +P
fetin, rm Cudyte jaan
Wpvete wm uschcb cua ere
Chsra-

--- Page 54 ---

en AON mR Mah hn VAT Rett oe oh at a cesta BER MAN LL er oie ate kee er c0tr Son we banana MIR eA ARERR TT hela

mae w. sfoad Le 7 un pote.
te da ,
oS Pe ,
ely

oar ne Dr «
a /A- Coond . Com +P
fetin, rm Cudyte jaan
Wpvete wm uschcb cua ere
Chsra-

--- Page 55 ---

14-00000 aaena ine ieiieaninnemndaieeineieabenemedirieiebmenmasmrinedice reentrant ietmecinen teeikaria remeaciienee teen dacdaaeeah tcoeieneiclinck cectaear cree dase eee ea cee nee

Suef ers

SECRET

7 Vareh 1952

MEMOUANDUM FOlis) Mr. Thomas W. Braden
SUPJ:OTs Relations with National Councils

° 1. Attached hereto io a study concerning: the National
Councils, with certain conclusions and reetiiicriationgs.

; 2. IT have deliterately delayed culmittin: this etudy Lecause

I wanted to Le eure of the validity of my eriticton asd recomendations.
To this end, I discuceed this paper at eeveral etazee of tte develop-
mont with varisus officers in the line divisions corcernsi ani aleo
with indj Juale who have been in close touch with the Hatioral
Councils Bivieion of MCFE. As a result, 1 feol that what ic submitted
in the attached etudy reflects not only my own views, kut aleo those

of the responsible area experts.

\ 3. I feel you will agree that, under ovisting corditione, it is
impocsible to carry out effectively any of the functions related to
national council catters with which wo are charged. The reeent "Nay
affair" and the resultant eubarrassnent nerves ae @ good Lilustration.

4e In view of the interest that hac teen deronetrated in this
paper by SE ard Ee-2, it is sugreated that eavics of the study be sent

to them.

5 This whole ratter, I believe, 16 of euch isjorterce as to
warrant further discussion, and I should a;;reciate havisg the

oprortunity of talking to youe
el Lil STERN

Attachrient
As stated above

ec: DCFY

SECRET

--- Page 56 ---

mom . cree eee RNP AI nN a hn LON SM me nee wig om ARE aT Ao

SRCURITY Bj de vetecs

SE

G RALATIONS ,

LULDOSy ; .

The purpose of this paper is to i) review brlofly tne accom lish=
ments of the Rational Gowieils Division of NoL, 2) atterpt to point
out the rvasons why the Natioral Councils have not acconpliched what
thoy sut out to do and 3) make curtain recommendations respect
to policy and aduluistration to remudy the present uneaticfectory and

- unworkable situation, This last assuccs that CIA must continue to
; “sponsor the National Counell complex. However, it cas do a0 only if
. certain basic changes are made and if it is recognized tzat it le
inowabent on CIA to regain control of the important perssialitioa of

the Eastorn Luropoan enigration.

_DISCUSSTON
“T Orde Obicgtive National Goupeils Diviss

The National Councils Division of the National Corm-ittee for a
Free Lurope was created on 3 April 1950 by resolution sf the Loard of
; Directors, The underlying principle, as stated in the Declaration of
: Policy in June 1950, was to aid the "non-Fascist and non—Cormmunist
: leaders in thoir peaceful offorts to prepsre the way towerd the
' restoration in Eastern Europo of the social, politicel and religious
i libertios in which they and we believe." The councile were to function
i as "representative, harmonious and effective croups* and, as such, to
play a part in the strurgle against Commnise: in Lastern iurope. They
: weve not to be considered as governments in extle nor as ence in then-
selves.

National Cornmittees and Panels,*® as supported by HCFE, were to
fulfill a two-fold function: as 1) avert instrunents, they were to
a) serve as a symbol of unity both in this country and ebroad, b) provide
a reservoir of "name" manpower for propacanda use, e) supcly general
Propacanda policy advice, and ad) su EB with both ceneral and
Specific intellicence with respect hozeiand activities ami personal-
ities. as 2) covert instruzxcnts, they were to servo as a cover for
Operations undertaxen by CIA aimai at coxtatting Soviet oppression in

the satelite states,

*These ares the zstonian, Latvia: and Lithuanian Punels, which were set
up with the help of CFs and which Ninction well.

SEGRG:

--- Page 57 ---

14-00000

II Status of Con ittees

During the course of the pact year, It han beovne Lncrcuotogly
apparent that national comittcss have fallud to ojeratc as
"roprenentative, effective ani hursonioue proupe.” 37% of tha ctx croups
of omlsres supported fineaclally by LOL," only three seve ony cort of
a working counctl (the Albenfar, Liwicartan and Hungeries) usd only
onve-tho !hnyarian—operatec with any deyres of + ¢ The Czech and
Humanion Councils have eplit intra tuo opposing fe: « The Cucha
have recently affeoted a reconciliation waich, to dete, te mercly a
paper “acreoment" ai de ctill awaiting implerentatisr. No attempts
at bringing together the kuranian Acsoclation ond the manacien
Committoo have succeeded. The tulgurian Comittec, watie mot oplit,
has teon handicapped by the dictatorial methods of ite Grsirran,
Dr. G. M,. Dimitrov, ard has therefore boon of little yaiue an an
organization, Attempts to offset this situation Ly an enlargement of
tho Comsittea are now under way. An enlargement of ti« Albanian
Comittee is also considered to be necessury, Lut here
with tho British is a compliceting factor, The Falez, efter long
years of dissension, finally ceer: to have ayrged or toe forzation of a
Council of National Unity. Additional. inforuation regurding sach-of-

these. committees is appended hereto...
III keaponge tor the Failure

the stuted objectives hac ofter, keen attributed to inurizue, rivalry
and jealousy among euigre politicians. while thie 12 sertzinly a
contriLuting factor, it 18 one wiich chould be exjacte: in any dealings
with leaders reared in tho intricacics of Ealkan mo - 4 more
important end far nore Laric caus: for the prezest coins of the
national councils has been ClA's failure to provite evz.imuing policy
guidance to, and appropriute control over, the Lxecutive Domrittee of
NCFE in New York. ‘This failure has in large part rer 3 fron the
Jack of a clearly defined meckeniem within CIA througn siiech to perform

these fungtions. wete

ed
At present a-situation exists in vhich there iss

1) No final focus of responsibility for nationel 41 policy
in Washinton. Various indivicvals throuchout CIA exd vepartient
of State are rediling in naticral council and relatct retters
owing to the vacuua which CIA has permitted to develo; ez because ro
one is charged with finel resporsitility, Furthermre, cecters of the

i

ee
The six groups ares the Albanian, [ulyarian, Czcen, sngerien, Folish

and Rumanian,

--- Page 58 ---

14-00000

eed

~

SLCURIEY HF OSMAL IT

“York often confer, and reach certain
epreoments, with high r: > individuals in ClA srd the Lopartnont
of State without consulting, or oven informing, anyone olse. This
hes led to 6 pereat deal al confusion, duplication of work and, of
evurce, embLarrassment.

Lzecutive Comittee 1%

2) An office in New Yack which io poorly steffed and which has
rude itcelf virtually i endent of CIA puidance. (oue protaLly to _
‘ths lack of proper wuid