104-10308-10189

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

OUTGOING

Charge:

Classification: SECRET
Control: ROUTINE
Date: 11 JULY 63

DIST: 1
SIG
CHRON

INFO BERN CITE CNVA CH
RYBAT INDEVOUT 3 01

DOMARK FROM MIDDAUGH

1. AS PART OF NEW G-2 COOPTED STATUS SUBJ MUST PROVIDE BOOKS ON ESPIONAGE. HE HAS SENT SUCH AS HE AND WE HAVE ACCESS TO IN LOCAL SHOPS AND HAS URGENT NEED TO SEND MORE VERY SOON. WE PLANNING ASK LONDON MAKE EXHAUSTIVE PURCHASE BUT IN MEANTIME HAVE NEED PASS HIM CIRCA TEN FOR IMMEDIATE POSTING TO

G-2/24

2. CAN YOU AT EARLY POINT RANSACK ZURICH BOOKSTORES FOR ANY TYPE OF WORK ON ESPIONAGE OR COUNTER ESPIONAGE OF LITERALLY ANY COUNTRY. WORKS CAN INCLUDE HISTORIC ITEMS LIKE WORLD WAR I BLACK ROOM, WORLD WAR II LIKE BREAKING OF JAPANESE CODE, OPERATION NORTH POLE IN HOLLAND, AND WHAT HAVE YOU, AS WELL AS WORKS BY COMMUNIST DEFECTORS AND THE NEWER CROP OF ESPIONAGE STUDIES. THEY MUST BE IN ENGLISH OR FRENCH.

3. BOOKS HE HAS ALREADY SENT INCLUDE: RESEAU DE SPIORS, L'HISTOIRE DE GESTAPO, CIA, MI 5, SECRET WAR, MANUEL DE ESPIONS, HER MAJESTY'S SECRET SERVICE, and SEVERAL UNIDENTIFIED BOOKS ON FASCISM.

4. WOULD APPRECIATE PHONE CALL AS SOON AS YOU KNOW HOW MANY BOOKS YOU CAN GET. MAIL BOOKS COMMERCIALLY TO MIDDAUGH PRIVATE ADDRESS.

ORIG: MIDDAUGH

RELEASED ON ELMARD. FROWS COPY IS PROHIBITED UNLESS "UNCLASSIFIED".

Excluded Single address messages to the Department can be diverted to pouch (appropriate to the classification of the message) without retyping. Type "By Pouch" after the address, omit the serial number, and pouch in envelope marked "For DC/T".

FORM FS 413P
