```markdown
14-00000

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Munro, George Frederick

Call Shop

Coming

(1542) when it

arrives. (78-0433/1

6 Mar 78

14-00000

FORM

USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

Date

SECRET SECURITY INFORMATION

CONTRACT PERSONNEL

OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

RETURN FILE TO SE-63

302858

Terminated 31 December 1970

NOTICE: This is an Office of Personnel File and

subject to 10 day limitation period. This file

has been charged to

and is due to be returned to CONTRACT PERSONNEL

DIVISION, SE-63 Hqs., x7841, as of

14-00000

SECRET

(When Filled In)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

1. SERIAL NUMBER

822177

2. NAME (LAST, FIRST, MIDDLE)

BENADUM, JEREMY K.

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

CONTRACT TRATION

(CFJGC)

4. FUNDS

NDS A

V TO V

5. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

FROM TO

DOP DIRECTORATE

WESTERN HEMISPHERE DIV

LITEMPO

11. POSITION TITLE

OPS OFFICER

12. POSITION NUMBER

13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

CAREER AGENT

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, IS, etc.)

15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

16. GRADE AND STEP

17. SALARY OR RATE

(FULL TIME) GS-15/7 27,463

18. REMARKS

BIRTH DATE:

STATUS INFORMATION

15 SEX: M

MARITAL ST: PAR

DBG: 103060

27463-11: 34197

NO. DEPENDENTS: 07

CITIZENSHIP: US/BIRTH LONGEVITY COMP: 103060 FED SERVICE COMP: 110739

TYPE RETIREMENT: CLA R-C

FEGLI: YES/CPIN

PAY BASIS: A

PREV. GOVT SERV: FBI

A/L IND: 3

HOSPITILIZATION: F PLAN: 422

SAL. TASK LIMIT:

S/L INC: 4

CONTRACT INFORMATION

EFF DATE: 092567 EXPIRATION DATE: INDEF DATE ORIG CONTRACT: 103060

REFERRING OFFICER: WH-PERS

TAX STAFF: Y FED EXMP: STATE EXMP:

TRAVEL: NON IPS EXPNS: Y HOUSING: 4 PHONE: 4460

HOME LEAVE: 4 DIFFERENTIAL: N FEST/EQUAL: STATE:

LEGISL PAY: Y PREMIUM PAY : N OFFSET CLAUSE: Y STO GOVT: Y

STEP INCRS: Y OTH TAX ENTL: N ALLOWANCE COMM: N EDUCATION:

OTHER ALLOWNS : N SEPARATION:

NOTE: ITEMS PRECEDED BY AN ASTERISK REFLECT CHANGED DATA

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

Form 11505

Use Previous

SECRET

Edition

14-00000

1 SERIAL NUMBER

6220779

2 NAME (LAST FIRST MIDDLE)

BENADUM JEREMY K

3 NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

MISCELLANEOUS CHANGE

9 ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

DOP DIRECTORATE

WESTERN HEMISPHERE DIV

LITEMPO

11 POSITION TITLE

OPS OFFICER

14 CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, IS, etc)

GS-15

17 SALARY OR RATE

(FULL TIME) 27,463

15 SEX M

MARITAL ST PAR

CITIZENSHIP US/BIRTH

TYPE RETIREMENT CLA R-C

PAY BASIS A

EFF DATE 092567

REFERRING OFFICER WH-PERS

TAX STAFF Y

TRAVEL NON

HOME LEAVE 4

LEGISL PAY Y

STEP INCRS Y

15 OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

16 GRADE AND STEP

18 REMARKS

BIRTH DATE

DBG 103060

18 REMARKS

FEGLI YES/CPIN

HOSPITILIZATION F

SAL TASK LIMIT

S/L IND 4

EXPIRATION DATE INDEF

FED EXMP STATE EXMP

CPS EXPNS Y

DIFFERENTIAL N

PREMIUM PAY N

OTH TAX ENTL N

OFFSET CLAUSE Y

PHONE 4460

STATE

POST/EQUAL

STO GOVT Y

ALLOWANCE COMM N EDUCATION

OTHER ALLOWNS N SEPARATION

NOTE: ITEMS PRECEDED BY AN ASTERISK REFLECT CHANGED DATA

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

Form 11505

Use Previous

SECRET

Edition

14-00000

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

2220774

2 NAME (LAST FIRST MIDDLE)

BENAQUA JEREMY K

3 NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

LEGISLATIVE PAY ADJUSTMENT

9 ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

DOP DIRECTORATE

WESTERN HEMISPHERE CIV

LITEMPO

11 POSITION TITLE

OPS OFFICER

14 CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, IS, etc)

GS-15

17 SALARY OR RATE

(FULL TIME)

15 OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

16 GRADE AND STEP

27,463

18 REMARKS

BIRTH DATE

STATUS INFORMATION

SEX M

MARITAL ST MAR

CITIZENSHIP US/BIRTH

TYPE RETIREMENT CIA S-C

PAY BASIS A

EFF DATE 092567

REFERRING OFFICER WH-PERS

TAX STAFF Y

TRAVEL NON

HOME LEAVE 4

LEGISL PAY Y

STEP INCRS Y

DBG 103060

FEGLI YES/CPIN

HOSPITILIZATION F

SAL TASK LIMIT

S/L IND 4

EXPIRATION DATE

FED EXMP STATE EXMP

CPS EXPNS Y

DIFFERENTIAL N

PREMIUM PAY N

OTH TAX ENTL N

OFFSET CLAUSE Y

PHONE 4460

STATE

POST/EQUAL

STO GOVT Y

ALLOWANCE COMM N EDUCATION

OTHER ALLOWNS N SEPARATION

NOTE: ITEMS PRECEDED BY AN ASTERICK REFLECT CHANGED DATA

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

Use Previous

SECRET

Edition

14-00000

Mexico, D.P.

31 July, 1970

To: COS

From: Jeremy K. Benadum

Subj: Military Service

Upon graduation from Pomona College, Claremont,

California, in June, 1936, writer was commissioned as 2nd

Lt. of Infantry. On October 25, 1939, writer went on active

duty under the Thomason Act, being assigned to duty with the

30th U.S. Infantry, with headquarters at the Presidio,

San Francisco, California. He remained on active duty until

30 July, 1940, at which time he reverted to reserve status.

Writer remained in this status, with the rank of 1st Lt. until

1942, at which time all reserve officers in the FBI were

requested to resign their commissions. The latter was done

under an arrangement between the Defense Dept. and the FBI.

Writer has never received a discharge, so is unable to produce

same.

14-00000

BIOGRAPHIC PROFILE (PART 1)

7 Nov 1939

1975

30 Oct 1960

9 Dec 1970

Ops Off (Career Agt)

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET

(When Filled In)

BIOGRAPHIC PROFILE (PART 2)

Munro, George F.

24 Aug 1915

No Fitness Report in Official Personnel Folder. Subject's HOD date is CA in Oct 1964.

No Photo Available.

SECRET

PROFILE

14-00000

SERVICE COMPUTATION DATE - Jeremy K. BENADUM (P)

Total Creditable Time

Service From To Years Months Days

Active duty in U.S. Army 26 Oct 39 31 Jul 40

Federal Bureau of Investigation 12 Aug 40 31 Oct 60

CLA Career Agent 30 Oct 60

Note: 12 Aug 1940 as a base date less above total creditable time

equals a SCD of 7 November 1939.

Paul Wilson

10 Jun 1969

14-0000

Chief of Station, Mexico City

Chief, WH Division

ADMIN/CONTRACTS

Jeremy K. BENADUM

ACTION REQUIRED

Reference: DIRECTOR 104776, Para 2. A., Dated 23 January 1971

A sterile check in the amount of $48.00 payable to Jeremy K.

BENADUM, former Career Agent, was forwarded to his allottee on

6 May 1971 for deposit to his account. The amount represents a refund

of six months prepaid premiums on BENADUM's Contract Life Insurance

policy which was cancelled effective 31 December 1970.

Norman R. PATERSILL

Distribution: 2-COS, Mexico City

SECRET

14-0000

April 27, 1971

Wells Fargo Bank

464 California Street

San Francisco, California 94104

Gentlemen:

Enclosed is Union Trust Company Treasurer's Check number

Q1-305154, dated April 27, 1971, payable to Mr. George Frederick

Munro, in the amount of $48.00. Please deposit the enclosed

check to Mr. Munro's account number 336361.

Sincerely,

Enclosure

Airmail, Certified

14-0000

SECRET (WHEN FILLED IN)

REQUEST FOR OS MAILING

SECTION I THIS SECTION FOR SENDER'S USE ONLY (TYPE OR PRINT)

CASE NO. MAIL RECEIPT DATE

283887 Washington, D. C.

METHOD OF MAILING (CHECK AS APPROPRIATE) ADDRESSEE

AIR SPECIAL FIRST Jeremy K. Benadum

X MAIL DELIVERY CLASS Wells Fargo Bank

PARCEL REGISTERED OTHER.

POST (EXPLAIN) Certified Mail 464 California Street

San Francisco, Calif., 94104

NAME OF SENDER DOCUMENT NO.

William S. Renehan

OFFICE EXTENSION

WH/Contracts 4460

SECTION II

INITIALS OF RECIPIENT DATE RID

REMARKS

THIS SECTION FOR OS USE ONLY

FORM 1637

11-59 SECRET

SENDER'S COPY

14-0000

SECRET (When Filled In)

Date: 4-19-71

TO: Administrative Officer/WH

FROM: Chief, Insurance Branch, BSD/Pers

SUBJECT: Refund on Cancelled Insurance Policies BENADUM, Jeremy K.

(NAME SUBSCRIBER)

Insurance Acct. No. 15574

1. According to the records in this office, subject employee

is due a refund of prepaid premiums on his cancelled insurance policies

listed below:

Contract Health Insurance

X Contract Life Insurance $48.00

United Benefit Life Insurance

WAEPA Life Insurance

Flight and Accident Insurance

2. Please notify this office (in writing) how to issue this re-

fund. If we draw our check, it will be under the name of Government

Employees Health Association, Inc. If applicable, please submit true

name under separate cover for issuance of sterile check.

H. O. Frunkhorst

SECRET (When Filled In)

Group I

Excluded from Automatic

Downgrading and Declassification

14-0000

CLEARANCE SHEET FOR TERMINATING EMPLOYEES

DATE CONTRACT EFFECTIVE DATE CONTRACT TERMINATION

30 October 1960 31 December 1970

REASON FOR CONTRACT TERMINATION

Retirement

INTERNAL STAFF CLEARANCES (applicable)

COMPONENT CLEARED BY DATE REMARKS

FINANCE

LOGISTICS

Security

CONTRACT APPROVING OFFICER

OFFICE DATE

(OFFICES TO INDICATE)

INTERVIEWING OFFICIAL

(Signature)

14-00000

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO : OP/Retirement Office DATE: 13 March 1971

ATTN: Paul Sidel

FROM : C/WH/Contracts

SUBJECT: Jeremy K. BENADUM, Retirement

1. Per our telecon this morning, I have sent over to you

a copy of the cable from Mexico City (IN 286625) which stated

BENADUM had elected not to make the payment as described in

our outgoing cable which your office coordinated with on Friday.

2. It is understood that necessary papers will be

forwarded from your office to Miss Harrison in the Office of

Finance today. I have called Miss Harrison and she advised

that upon receipt of the papers from you there would be no

difficulty in insuring that BENADUM's actual annuity is com-

puted including the retroactive portion for January and February

and included in the check for March.

Wm. Renehan

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET

CASE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

ACTION

COPY

FILE VR

(classification)

SECRET

TO MEXICO CITY

ADMIN CONTRACTS

REF: HMS-7143

FOLLOWING.

1. PLEASE INFORM JEREMY K. BENADUM FOLLOWING.

A. HIS ACTIVE MILITARY DUTY VERIFIED AS 1 JULY 1937 THROUGH

14 JULY 1937 AND 1 DECEMBER 1939 THROUGH 30 JUNE 1940. THIS TOTALS ONE

AND ONE-HALF MONTHS LESS THAN BENADUM CLAIMED.

B. VERIFICATION CIVILIAN SERVICE SHOWS NO RETIREMENT DEDUCTIONS

FOR PERIOD 1 JUNE 1942 THRU 28 FEBRUARY 1943. AMOUNT OF $307 REQUIRED

TO PURCHASE CREDIT FOR THIS PERIOD. IF NOT PAID, BASIC ANNUITY WILL BE

REDUCED BY 10 PERCENT OF AMOUNT OWED.

C. ANNUITY ESTIMATES RECOMPUTED ON BASIS CHANGE IN CREDITABLE

MILITARY SERVICE AND EFFECT OF PAYMENT OR NON-PAYMENT FOR UNCOVERED

PERIOD OF CIVILIAN SERVICE. IF PAID, ANNUITY ESTIMATED TO BE $1,195 PER

MONTH. IF NOT PAID, ESTIMATE ANNUITY REDUCTION TO $1,194 PER MONTH.

SHOULD REALIZE WOULD TAKE OVER TEN YEARS TO REGAIN AMOUNT OF PAYMENT.

14-00000

SECRET

PAGE TWO (2)

D. PLEASE ADVISE BENADUM'S DECISION. IF ELECTS MAKE PAYMENT,

HIS CHECK PAYABLE TO TREASURER OF U.S. SHOULD BE FORWARDED HQS SOONEST.

2. ON RECEIPT OF DECISION AND, IF APPROPRIATE, PAYMENT FOR THE

SERVICE, FINAL ANNUITY COMPUTATIONS WILL BE MADE. ANNUITY CHECK FOR

MARCH WOULD INCLUDE RETROACTIVE AMOUNT DUE BENADUM FOR JANUARY AND

FEBRUARY.

END OF MESSAGE

WH COMMENTS: Adviced full retirement annuity could not be paid pending

receipt of verification of military service and billing

for non-deduction civilian service between 1 Jun 42 and

1 Mar 43.

COORD: OP/Retirement - A. J. Sukowitz (in draft)

14-00000

SECRET

(When Filled In)

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

ACTION COPY

FILE VR

SECRET

131727Z MAR 71 CITE MEXICO CITY 15858 13 MAR IN286625

DIRECTOR

ADMIN CONTRACTS

REF: DIRECTOR 119594

15 MAR 1971

1. JEREMY K. BENADUM HAS SELECTED NOT RPT NOT MAKE

PAYMENT AS PER REF PARA 1B. HAS BEEN ADVISED HIS ESTIMATE

ANNUITY REDUCED TO $1,194 PER MONTH.

2. FILE DEFER. GP-1

SECRET

14-00000

WSRenehan

WH/Contracts

4460

12 March 1971

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

SECRET

TO MEXICO CITY

ADMIN CONTRACTS

REF: HMS-7143

1. PLEASE INFORM JEREMY K. BENADUM FOLLOWING.

A. HIS ACTIVE MILITARY DUTY VERIFIED AS 1 JULY 1937 THROUGH

14 JULY 1937 AND 1 DECEMBER 1939 THROUGH 30 JUNE 1940. THIS TOTALS ONE

AND ONE-HALF MONTHS LESS THAN BENADUM CLAIMED.

B. VERIFICATION CIVILIAN SERVICE SHOWS NO RETIREMENT DEDUCTIONS

FOR PERIOD 1 JUNE 1942 THRU 28 FEBRUARY 1943. AMOUNT OF $307 REQUIRED

TO PURCHASE CREDIT FOR THIS PERIOD. IF NOT PAID, BASIC ANNUITY WILL BE

REDUCED BY 10 PERCENT OF AMOUNT OWED.

C. ANNUITY ESTIMATES RECOMPUTED ON BASIS CHANGE IN CREDITABLE

MILITARY SERVICE AND EFFECT OF PAYMENT OR NON-PAYMENT FOR UNCOVERED

PERIOD OF CIVILIAN SERVICE. IF PAID, ANNUITY ESTIMATED TO BE $1,195 PER

MONTH. IF NOT PAID, ESTIMATE ANNUITY REDUCTION TO $1,194 PER MONTH.

SHOULD REALIZE WOULD TAKE OVER TEN YEARS TO REGAIN AMOUNT OF PAYMENT.

(CONTINUED)

14-00000

SECRET

PAGE TWO (2)

D. PLEASE ADVISE BENADUM'S DECISION. IF ELECTS MAKE PAYMENT,

HIS CHECK PAYABLE TO TREASURER OF U.S. SHOULD BE FORWARDED HQS SOONEST.

2. ON RECEIPT OF DECISION AND, IF APPROPRIATE, PAYMENT FOR THE

SERVICE, FINAL ANNUITY COMPUTATIONS WILL BE MADE. ANNUITY CHECK FOR

MARCH WOULD INCLUDE RETROACTIVE AMOUNT DUE BENADUM FOR JANUARY AND

FEBRUARY.

END OF MESSAGE

WH COMMENTS: Advised full retirement annuity could not be paid pending

receipt of verification of military service and billing

for non-deduction civilian service between 1 Jun 42 and

1 Mar 43.

COORD: OP/Retirement - A. J. Sukowitz (in draft)

14-00000

ROUGH DRAFT

P. J. Seidel

10 March 1971

1. Please advise Jeremy K. BENADUM that the appropriate

military authority has verified the following dates of active duty:

1 July 1937 through 14 July 1937

1 December 1939 through 30 June 1940

This service totals one and one-half months less than that claimed by

BENADUM.

2. Records verifying BENADUM's civilian service show that during

period 1 June 1942 through 28 February 1943 retirement deductions were

not withheld from salary. The amount of $307.00 will be required to

purchase credit for this period. If not paid, Subject's annuity will be

reduced by 10 per cent of the amount owed or $31.00 per year. If Subject

elects to make payment, his check should be made payable to the Treasurer

of the United States and forwarded to Headquarters sconest.

3. Annuity estimates recomputed to reflect change in creditable

military service and effect of payment or non-payment for uncovered

period of civilian service. If paid; annuity will be $1,196 per month.

If not paid, annuity reduced to $1,194.

4. Advise Headquarters BENADUM's election on payment vs.

non-payment option.

14-00000

WSRenehan:md

WH/Contracts

4460

17 February 1971

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

CONFI

PER

FILE, VR,

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIES:

SECRET

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY

INDEX

NO INDEX

RETURN TO

BRANCH

FILE RID

FILE IN CS FILE NO.

SECRET

TO MEXICO CITY

ADMIN CONTRACTS

REFS: A. MEXICO CITY 5618 (IN 266892)

B. HMMS-7143, PTP/7 FEB.

PLEASE SEE REF B.

WH COMMENTS: A. BENADUM requests Hqs identify deposit of $950.

B. Jeremy K. BENADUM, Retirement Annuity.

COORD: C/WH/1

WH/FI/NOC

WILLIAM V. BROE

C/WHD

RELEASING OFFICER

WILLIAM S. RENEHAN

C/WH/CONTRACTS

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

COPY NO.

14-00000

Chief of Station, Mexico City

Chief, WH Division

ADMIN/CONTRACTS

Jeremy K. BENADUM, Retirement Annuity

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

ACTION REQUIRED:

1. The Retirement Office has advised that Jeremy K. BENADUM's

annuity check for January will be an interim payment representing

about 75% of basic annuity.

2. The full annuity could not be paid pending receipt of

verification of military service and billing for non-deduction

civilian service between 1 June 1942 and 1 March 1943. Headquarters

has been checking with the Retirement Office on a continuous basis

but as yet the information has not been received. Upon receipt of

the required info, you will be promptly advised.

3. Please assure BENADUM that he will receive retroactive pay-

ment in a subsequent check for full entitlement.

Norman R. PATERSILL

Distribution: 2-COS, Mexico City

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMS-7143

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

OFFICE

WH/Contracts

ORIGINATING

WSRenehan

(11 Feb 71)

COORDINATING

C/WH/1

WH/FI/NOC

C/WH/SS

RELEASING

Richard B. Wright

DISPATCH

14-00000

SECRET

162254Z FEB 71 CITE MEXICO CITY 5618

DIRECTOR

ADMIN FINANCE

REF: HMS-6919 DTD 22 JULY 72

1. JEREMY K. BENADUM REPORTS RECEIPT OF BANK DEPOSIT

NOTICE COVERING GOVERNMENT CHECK IN AMOUNT $952.08 ONLY.

LARGE DEPOSIT BENADUM ANTICIPATES AT PRESENT TIME IS FIRST

RETIREMENT ANNUITY CHECK.

2. REF INDICATED ESTIMATE FOR BENADUM ANNUITY $1,282

PER MONTH, WHICH HARD TO RECONCILE WITH $950 DEPOSIT. FACT

THAT DEPOSIT FOR SUCH EVEN AMOUNT ALSO INDICATES IT MAY NOT BE

FIRST ANNUITY PAYMENT.

3. BENADUM REQUESTS HEADQUARTERS IDENTIFY DEPOSIT IF

POSSIBLE, AND PROVIDE EARNINGS AND DEDUCTIONS BREAKDOWN IF

APPROPRIATE. BENADUM ALSO REQUESTS CROSS-DEDUCTIONS - NET

BREAKDOWN OF ANNUITY PAYMENTS.

SECRET

14-00000

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Jeremy K. BENADUM, Payment of Annuity

REF: DIRECTOR 104776

1. At the time of transmittal of Reference, I had been informed

that the military service still had not been verified. In talking about this

matter with Mr. Sidel, I asked if he would request MMPD, possibly through

some sargeant to sargeant or colonel to colonel whether the matter

could be expedited. He assured me he would give this an all-out try and

agreed to let me know during the forthcoming week.

2. In checking this morning I find that Mr. Sidel is out on leave

and going into training for at least the next week. In asking how to get

in touch with Mr. Sidel, eventually Mrs. Sukowitz came on the line.

She advised that nothing new was in the record and there was no info

on the verification of the military service and wished to assure me that

just because someone went on leave or was out that a case was not dropped.

I asked then if any effort has been made to contact MMPD. She said the

file didn't reflect anything and agreed to check MMPD and let me know.

14-00000

SECRET

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

SECRET

MEXICO CITY

ADMIN CONTRACTS

REF: MEXICO CITY 5381 (IN 248431)

FOLLOWING KEYED REF

1. ALTHOUGH ACTUAL REQUIREMENTS MAY VARY AMONG INDIVIDUAL BANKS,

SUGGEST JEREMY K. BENADUM ADVISE BANK THEY WILL BE RECEIVING GOVERNMENT ANNUITY

CHECKS FOR DEPOSIT HIS ACCOUNT AND INCLUDE POWER OF ATTORNEY IN LETTER.

2. NO CARD OR OTHER EVIDENCE OF RETIREMENT PROVIDED. LENGTH OF

SERVICE (32 YEARS 2 MONTHS INCLUDES SICK LEAVE) CITED 203 6919.

INSURANCE CARD NOT ISSUED RETIREES ABROAD AS HOSPITALS WOULD NOT

ACCEPT. SEE HM 7107 FOR INSTRUCTIONS ON FORWARDING HOSPITALIZATION

CLAIMS. WILL BE PROVIDED ANNUITY STATEMENT WHICH WILL INCLUDE AMOUNT

OF RETIREMENT CONTRIBUTIONS FOR INCOME TAX PURPOSES.

A. STATION AUTHORIZED PAY FOLLOWING FIELD ALLOTMENT FOR

PERIOD 13 - 31 DECEMBER AND T/A HQS.

(CONTINUED)

14-00000

SECRET

PAGE TWO (2)

GROSS $1,478.40

DEDUCTIONS:

FEGLI 12.38

OPTIONAL FEGLI 8.25

HOSPITALIZATION 14.09

RETIREMENT 103.49

INCOME TAX 191.55

1970 TAX ADJUSTMENT 147.00

476.76

$1,001.64

REFUND OF TAX OVER WITHHELD

PAY PERIODS 11, 12 AND 13 121.50

NET $1,123.14

NOTE: CONTRACT LIFE INSURANCE COVERAGE CEASED 31 DECEMBER. WILL REFUND

PREPAID PREMIUMS.

(CONTINUED)

14-0000

SECRET

PAGE THREE (3)

B. RETIREMENT CHECKS MAILED WITHIN FIRST WEEK OF MONTH

FOLLOWING THAT FOR WHICH DUE.

END OF MESSAGE

COORD: C/WH/BEF

C/WH/FI/NOC

OP/Retirement

CCS/DEB

14-00000

SECRET

20221 JAN 71 CITE MEXICO CITY 5381

DIRECTOR

ADMIN CONTRACTS

REF: A. MEXICO CITY 5083

B. MEXICO CITY 5301

1. BENADUM WAS ASKED WHETHER NECESSARY FOR HIM TO SUPPLY HIS

BANK WITH POWER OF ATTORNEY OR SIMILAR FORM TO ENABLE BANK TO CREDIT

RETIREMENT CHECKS TO HIS ACCOUNT, REQUEST HEADQUARTERS ADVISE.

2. BENADUM ALSO ASKING WHETHER HE SHOULD RECEIVE CARD,

CERTIFICATE OR OTHER EVIDENCE OF RETIREMENT FROM GOVERNMENT SERVICE

INCLUDING LENGTH OF SERVICE CREDITED. PLEASE ADVISE.

3. DUE DISRUPTION OF NORMAL INCOME PATTERNS, BENADUM

EXPERIENCING FINANCIAL PROBLEMS AND REQUESTS PAYMENT OF FIELD

ALLOTMENT FOR 13-31 DEC 70 SOONEST. REF B PROVIDED 1970 OVERT INCOME

TAX ESTIMATE. ADVISE STATION OF NET AMOUNT FINAL FIELD ALLOTMENT

SOONEST. ALSO ADVISE WHEN BENADUM CAN EXPECT FIRST RETIREMENT

CHECK WILL BE SENT TO BANK. GP-1

SECRET

14-00000

Chief of Station, Mexico City

Chief, BUGARK

ADMIN/CENT - Jeremy K. BENADUM (P) - Tax Administration

REFERENCE: Mexico City 5301, 13 January 1971

1. Headquarters has reviewed BENADUM's estimated 1970 and

1971 true tax liabilities and it has been determined that his

current withholding rate is sufficient to provide enough tax for

these years.

2. Please advise BENADUM of the above and remind him that

we need copies of his 1970 and 1971 tax returns when they are

submitted to Internal Revenue so that we can reconcile to his

true tax liability.

VICTOR D. UNITSKY

Distribution:

Orig. & 2 - COS

Internal Dist.

1 - WH/1

1 - GIL/CON

HMMS-7115

3 FEB 1971

26 January 1971

SECRET

CCS/CTS

WITH

14-0000

1. Please inform subject employes that in the future he must submit
itemized medical bills to the address forwarded under separate cover.
2. All bills should show the name of the patient, the dates and
types of services rendered, the amount charged per item, the exact type
of surgery performed (if applicable). Itemized statements are required.
3. All receipts for any drugs must be itemized with each drug listed
separately for each brand name or generic name. This information will ease the
processing of a claim.
4. Enclosed is a booklet which explains hospitalization insurance,
life insurance, and any questions applies regardless of the country in which the
expenses are incurred. Costs of a recognized hospital are covered under this policy
in accordance with the benefits involved in individual policies.

14-00000

M MRO. George F. Munro

4 DATE AND NATURE OF SEPARATION

12/31/70 Retirement

SUMMARY OF ANNUAL AND SICK LEAVE

(HOURS)

5 Balance from prior leave year and 1/1/70

6 Current leave year accrual through 12/26

1970

7 Total

8 Reduction in credits, if any (current year)

9 Total leave taken

10 Balance

11 Total hours paid in lump sum (long

leave year)

12 Salary rate(s) $27,463.

13 Lump sum leave dates:

from

(INITIALS) APPOINTMENT DATA

Service 100 leave

(HOURS)

560 14 Date of last known physical

100 15 Current balance as of

760 16 12 month accrued home

17 Dates leave used, per 24 months

18 Monthly accrual date

19 Calendar days credit for most original date.

20 Total hours paid in lump sum

21 Salary rate(s)

SUMMARY OF HOME LEAVE

More than 15,000

Unused Sick

Leave---2228

hours-

11/7/39

(Date)

22 During leave year in which recorded

23 During 12 month period which began on 4/19/70

(Dates)

MILITARY LEAVE

Dates during current calendar year

Dates during preceding calendar year

ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY

REMARKS

SCD:

11/7/39

(Signature)

(Date)

FOR CHIEF, PAYROLL

23 During 12 month period which began on

(Dates)

Standard Form 1150

November 1965

US CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION

1150-106 RECORD OF LEAVE DATA TRANSFERRED

FPM SUPPLEMENTS P96-11 AND 10-2

14-00000

SECRET

31 December 1970

Munro, George F.

10 December 1970

Joseph DiStefano, WH/EXO

SECTION B RECOMMENDATION OF HEAD OF CAREER SERVICE

FOR THE ATTACHED FORM RETIREMENT

APPROVAL

DISAPPROVAL (Reason specified

below)

Cord Meyer, Jr., ADDP

14-0000

CIA

Munro

24 Aug 1915

26 Oct 39 31 Jul 40

12 Aug 40 31 Oct 60

1 Nov 60 31 Dec 70

31 Dec 1970

14-0000

SPECIFY THE PORTION OF YOUR
ANNUITY YOU WANT USED AS THE BASE
FOR YOUR WIDOW (OR HUSBAND'S) SURVIVOR
BENEFIT.
If you want all your annuity used as the base for the survivor
benefit, write the word "all" in the box below. If you want
only a portion of your annuity used as the base for the survivor
benefit, write the dollar amount of your annuity per month you want used.
ANNUITY WITHOUT SURVIVOR BENEFIT
If I do not desire my wife (or husband) to receive a
survivor annuity benefit after my death.
G. TYPES OF ANNUITY: UNMARRIED APPLICANTS ONLY (including Widowed and Divorced)
INITIALS ANNUITY WITHOUT SURVIVOR BENEFIT
If you are unmarried, you will then this type of annuity
choose the annuity in G. 2
This type provides annuity payments to you only.
H.
INITIALS ANNUITY WITH
NAMED PERSON
HAVING AN INSURABLE
INTEREST
SPECIFY THE NAME, RELATIONSHIP AND DATE OF BIRTH OF THE PERSON YOU WISH
TO RECEIVE THE SURVIVOR ANNUITY
NAME OF PERSON (Last, first, middle)
RELATIONSHIP
DATE OF BIRTH (M, day, yr.)
WARNING Any intentional false statement in this application
or willful misrepresentation relative thereto is a violation of the
law punishable by a fine of not more than $10,000 or imprisonment
of not more than 5 years, or both (18 U.S.C. 1001)
I hereby certify that all statements made in this application are true
to the best of my knowledge and belief
DATE 10 Dec. 1970
SIGNATURE OF APPLICANT
FOR OFFICE OF PERSONNEL USE ONLY
SECRET

--- Page 35 ---

14-00000

Jeremy K. Benadum

To: COS

From: Jeremy K. Benadum

Subj.: Retirement request

Mexico, D.F.

31 July, 1970

Writer herewith requests that his retirement date

be established as 31 December, 1970.

CONCUR:

Roger T. Kingman

14-00000

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Personnel

SUBJECT: Jeremy K. BENADUM, Terminal

Annual Leave

REFERENCE: HR 20-30 c (4)

1. It is requested that approval be granted for Jeremy K.

BENADUM, Career Agent, to use accumulated annual leave prior

to his retirement on 31 December 1970.

2. BENADUM has been assigned PCS to Mexico City since

his employment in October 1960 and will retire in place. He has

a maximum leave carryover of 560 hours plus leave accrued during

1970. BENADUM's request that he be permitted to use accrued

annual leave in lieu of a lump-sum payment was endorsed by the

Mexico City Station.

3. The Chief of Station, prior to departure for Mexico,

recommended that BENADUM's request be approved. This was

based on operational considerations which are in the best interests

of the Agency for there to be an amicable separation when BENADUM

retires.

4. The WH Division recommends favorable consideration

be accorded this request.

William V. Broe

Chief

Western Hemisphere Division

14-00000

SECRET

SUBJECT: Jeremy K. BENADUM, Terminal Annual Leave

CONCUR:

APPROVED:

Director of Personnel

DDP/WH/Contracts: