14-00000
104-10192-10229

[2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

CS/RE, Duffel (F), ARE APAP, CAZ, Gojske
Sel specific El Soob, Casa Eusz, spre, cd 29/13

DIRECTOR

TYPIC

542 CITE JAVE 3413
BELLA NAPOLI

1. EVENING 5 OCTOBER ORLANDO BOSCH GIVEN THREE YEAR
SUSPENDED SENTENCE BY NAPLES COURT WHEN FOUND GUILTY OF
TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES WITHOUT LICENSE IN APRIL 66.
COMPANIONS TO BE TRIED SEPARATELY.

2. EVENING 5 OCTOBER AMOT REPORTED THAT ANTAUP-2 HAD
BEEN TELEPHONED BY JORGE CUITERREZ ULLA, CHIEF OF
PROPAGANDA OF JMWAVE, TO ATTEND PRESS CONFERENCE.
ANTAUP-2 ALSO REPORTED THAT AT TRAIL JORGE VEGA, BOSCH
DEFENSE ATTORNEY, HAD MADE STATEMENT TO COURT TO EFFECT THAT
BOSCH SHOULD NOT BE CONVICTED BECAUSE HE WAS TRYING FREE
CUBA FROM COMMUNIST DOMINATION AND IN DOING SO WAS NOT
ACTING ANY MORE ILLEGALLY THAN WAS JMWAVE, WHICH HAS
CONDUCTING SAME TYPE OF ACTIVITY FROM A DATE LOCATED AT
THE "CAYO GORDO" SECTION OF NAPLES.

3. "CAYO GORDO" UNDOUBTEDLY IS GARBLE FOR SCROON PASS
AREA OF NAPLES AT WHICH BERTHING SITE FOR JABAVE MARX I SKIFF.
SECRET

14-00000

HOWEVER, RIGGER WAS
BEING REMOVED FOR OPS
POSTPONED BECAUSE OF HURRICANE INEZ.
PERTH, KEY LARGO, WILL NOT
AS HE IS AWARE LATTER SITE
ALREADY SCHEDULED FOR TERMINATION OCTOBER-NOVEMBER 66.

4. UPON RECEIPT AMOT INFO JMWAVE CONTACTED AND BRIFFED
AGENTS SERVING AS CUSTODIANS AT NAPLES SITE. TO DATE THEY
HAVE NOT REPORTED ANY QUERIES. OFFICIALS OF COVER CORPORATION,
(GULFLANT) WHICH OWNS RIGGER AND RENTS BERTHING SITE WERE
BRIEFED 6 OCTOBER.

5. MORNING 6 OCTOBER ANTAUP-2 REPORTED PRESS CONFERENCE
BUT THAT GUTIERREZ STATED HE HAD PHONED UPI
AND MIAMI HERALD TO GIVE THEM PRESS RELEASE INCLUDING VEGA
CLAIM RE OPS ACTIVITIES NAPLES AREA.

6. MRS 6 OCTOBER STATION HAD NOT SEEN ANY NALIS PRESS
COVERAGE OF TRIAL. DID NOT MENTION ALLEGED VEGA STATEMENTS.
SECRET

14-00000

7. AT GUTIERREZ REQUEST ANTAUP-2 TAPED STATEMENT FOR
RADIO PROGRAM. REVIEW OF STATEMENT BY AMOT SHOWS THAT
JMWAVE NOT MENTIONED.

8. ALTHO NO FIRM EVIDENCE TO DATE ANTICIPATE THAT
MIRR MAY SOON PUBLICIZE FURTHER "REVELATIONS" RE JMWAVE
ACTIVITY, NOTABLY RE COMBINED OPS FACILITIES, ACTIVITIES,
PERSONNEL. INFO FROM AMOT AND OTHER CONTACTS IN EXILE
COMMUNITY INDICATES FELIPE RIVERO AND HIS ANC GROUP ALSO
TALKING OF "EXPOSING" JMWAVE ACTIVITIES. STATED AIM OF
BOTH GROUPS IS TO SHOW "TWO-FACED" ATTITUDE OF U.S. GOVT
WHICH STOPS ANTI-COMMUNIST EXILE FIGHTERS FROM USING U.S.
AS BASE FOR ACTION AGAINST CASTRO CUBA BUT ALLOWS JMWAVE TO
CARRY OUT SUCH ACTIVITY. FURTHER AIMS ARE TO SHOW EXILE
COMMUNITY THAT MIRR AND ANC ARE "ACTIVIST" GROUPS AS COMPARED
WITH OTHER EXILE ORGS AND TO RIDICULE AND TRY INTIMIDATE THOSE
CUBANS WHO WORK FOR JMWAVE.

9. STATION EVALUATES INCIDENT AS HAVING NO SIGNIFICANT
ADVERSE EFFECT ON OPS OR GENERAL STATION SECURITY. STATION
HAS DIRECTED INCREASED STATE OF VIGILANCE AT ALL COMBINED
OPS SITES BUT DOES NOT ENVISAGE ANY BASIC CHANGES IN COVER
SECRET

14-00000

PROCEDURES WHICH HAVE PROVIDED REQUIRED
LEVEL OF PLAUSIBLE DENIAL PLUS EFFECTIVE MASKING OF
SENSITIVE DATA RE COMBINED OPS.
SECRET
BT
