2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

104-10164-10002

TRANSMITTAL SLIP

TO:
DATE
WH/COG/FI
ROOM NO.
REMARKS:
BUILDING
FROM:
ROOM NO.
BUILDING
REPLACES FORM
WHICH MAY BE USED.
EXTENSION

14-00000

SECRET

Deputy Assistant Secretary for Security
Department of State

Federal Bureau of Investigation
Attention: Mr. G. J. Papich

FROM:
Deputy Director for Plans
SUBJECT: Alicia CRUZ Bustillo

It is requested that the files of the Federal Bureau
of Investigation and the Department of State be searched
for any information they may contain regarding Alicia
CRUZ Bustillo, and that information be forwarded to this
Office. Available information indicates that Miss BUSTILLO,
a Cuban ballet dancer, is about 29 years of age, and was
one of the group of Cuban ballet dancers which recently
made a tour of Europe. She reportedly has recently injured
her feet and is not now dancing but is working as a secretary
to Alicia ALONZO, prima ballerina of Cuba.

COCZ-816/00306-67

9 February 1967

BSP/WR/COG/CICH/Elaine Ayers/inak
Source: DCS IN 17967
File : 18-3-4
Distribution:
A 1 - Addressee
- RID
- CI/LIA
- CI/AA
- WH/COG/FI/TC-B.Prietze
- Originator
- WR/COG/CICH

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET

TOTAL COPIES

GROUP

ADVANCE COPY

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
X-REF TO FILE NO.
FILE RID RET. TO BRANCH
DESTROY SIG.
CS/DO, EUR 8, WJH 8
91/OPS, CI/OA, FL

SECRET 131712 MAR 68 CITE JMWAVE 1634
PRIORITY MADRID, DIRECTOR INFO MEXICO CITY, FRANKFURT

TYPIC MHAPRON AMMEDIA

REF JMWAVE 1633 (IN 69663) 13MG68673

IDENTITY: FORMER WITHRUSH ASSET WHO TERMINATED FEB 66 FOR
INSUITABILITY IN PROPOSED CONGO ASSIGNMENT.

SECRET

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

TOTAL COPIES 38

ADVANCE COPY

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

UNIT

TIME

BY

SECRET 101550Z

WAVE DIR CITE LIOP 3961 (LAMPRIGHT ACTING)

CHAPPIE WITHRUSH PBRUMEN

1. FOLL ITINERARY FOR BARTES: DEPT LEOP 9 FEB VIA SABENA TO
MADRID. ARRIVE NEW YORK VIA TWA 901, 11 FEB.

2. FOR WAVE: BARTES VERY UNHAPPY OVER TERMINATION CLAIMING
HE NOT TREATED FAIRLY BY AO'S OR TRAVIESO. FACT IS HE SHOULD HAVE
BEEN SENT HOME A MONTH AGO. REQUEST LORENTZ MAY WANT TO USE
TRAVIESO IF BARTES PROVES BE DIFFICULT.

3. BARTES PAID USD 200 AND SIGNED RECEIPT STATING HE HAS NO
FURTHER MONEY DUE HIM.

SECRET

CFN 3961 BARTES DEPT 9 VIA SABENA MADRID NEW YORK VIA TWA 901
11 NOT TREATED AO'S TRAVIESO A LORENTZ USD 200 NO FURTHER

SECRET

201-289885

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

TOTAL COPIES

ADVANCE COPY

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

UNIT

TIME

BY

SECRET 071195Z

DIR INFO WAVE CITE LEOP 3892 LAMPRIGHT ACTING

CHAPPIE WITHRUSH PER UMEN

REF A. LEOP 3701, PARA 2
B. LEOP 3274

1. FURTHER OBSERVATION BARTES (B) INDICATES HE
CONTINUALLY EMPLOYS DANGEROUS PRACTICES ALTHOUGH GIVEN REPEATED
INSTRUCTION. B SHOWS NO SIGNS OF IMPROVEMENT NOR ABILITY TO
RETAIN INSTRUCTION. CHECK FLIGHT GIVEN BY CHIEF PILOT TRAVIESO
(T) 4 FEB CONVINCED T THAT B SHOULD BE TERMINATED. T INFORMED
AO THAT HE HAS GIVEN UP TRYING TO TEACH B WHO ARGUMENTATIVE AND
MAKES NO EFFORT TO IMPROVE HIMSELF.

2. PLAN RETURN B MIAMI 10 FEB.

SECRET PERTAINS TO TRAINING / STANDARDS
AT WAVE.

3892 3701 2 3274 BARTES
T BAO B NO EFFORT B NO BIJNB NOR ABILITY TRAVIESO

SECRET

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

TOTAL COPIES 20

ADVANCE COPY

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

UNIT

TIME

BY

SECRET 012043Z

DIR CITE WAVE 8881

CHAPPIE WITHRUSH PBRUMEN

REF: LEOP 3701

1. REF INDICATES EXCEPTIONALLY HIGH EVALUATION BY PERUMEN
FLIGHT EVALUATORS IN MIAMI OF BARTES (P) AND NAVARRO (N).

2. PLS SEE WAVE 7591 FOR (B) EVALUATION. AFTER RECEIPT OF LEOP
2362, WAVE CONCENTRATED ON MULTI-ENGINE PROCEDURES BASED
UPON PROPOSED USAGE OF SUPJ.

3. PLS SEE WAVE 7846 FOR (N) EVALUATION.

SECRET

CFN 6801 3701 MIAMI BARTES NAVARRO 7591 B 2362 7846 N

SECRET

MICROFILMED
APR 1 4 1966

14-00000

(C) OSCAR CORDO LUGO - CO-PILOT

(D) ANGEL PEDRIANES - CO-PILOT (S/E ALPERT)

3. DEPARTURE FORECAST:

RENE TRAVIESO - 31 MARCH (BACK IN TWO MONTHS).
FAUSTO VALDES - 30 APRIL (RETURN TO U.S.A.)
ERNESTO DESPAIGNE - WILL DECIDE IN FEBRUARY
JORGE QUINTERO - INDEFINITE
EFRAIN MORANTES - STARTED
CASTOR CERECEDA - WILL REPORT 3 DAYS BEFORE LEAVING.
ANGEL DE LA CUESTA - WILL DECIDE IN FEBRUARY
JUAN PERON - POSSIBLY ONE YEAR
ENRIQUE CADENAS - APRIL (DEPENDING ON WORK).
JORGE NAVARRO - POSSIBLY ONE YEAR
ROBERTO CARDENAS - MORE THAN SIX MONTHS.
Z ROJO - WILL DECIDE IN FEBRUARY.
GARCIA - JANUARY (BACK IN 30 DAYS).
PIEDRA - JUNE OR JULY
MISS - JUNE (WILL BE BACK IN 30 DAYS).

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

TOTAL COPIES

ADVANCE COPY

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

UNIT

TIME

BY

SECRET 271647Z

DIR CITE LEOP 5781

WAVE CHAPPIE WITHRUSH

REF: A. WAVE 8589
DIR 75665
DIR 71114

1. REQUEST CECELIO PADRON (P) BE REIGNTRACTED PER
PARA 6 REF A ASAP. WAVE CAN TELL (P) THAT HE WILL FLY T-28's.
NAVARRO (N) AND BARTES (B) CHECKED BY SAO AND
CONCESION REACHED THAT ESTANDARDS PREVIOUSLY APPLIED TOO
HIGH. SAO WILL GIVE ADDITIONAL TRAINING TOM AND B WITH VIEW
TO USING BOTH CONGO OPS. PROBLEM BASICALLY CIVILIAN PILOTS
NOT FAMILIAR WITH T-28 NOR TACTICAL APPLICATION OF T-28.
NEITHER PILOT MEASURED UP TO EXCEPTIONALLY HIGH EVALUATION
GIVEN BY PERUMEN INSTRUCTORS WAVE. SUGGEST THAT PBPRIME
INSTRUCTOR/CHECK PILOT BE INTEGRATED INTO WAVE/PHRUMEN
PROGRAM ASAP.

CFN 1901 0965 786695
CECELIO PADRON ASAP WAVE

14-00000

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIES

DESTROY RETURN TO BRANCH

ROUTING

FILE IN CS FILE NO.

SECRET

201-289885

201-282285

TO: LEOPOLDVILLE JMWAVE
FROM: DIRECTOR

INFO: WAVE
CHAPPIE WITHRUSH PBRUMEN

CITE DIR 71114
REF: DIR 70172

WITH STATION CONCURRENCE AND IF SUBJ' REFS NOT ALREADY DEPARTED,
REQUEST THEY HELD LEOP UNTIL MOCERINO RETURN O/A 18 JAN 66.
DESIRES RE-EVALUATE AS RESULT PERSONAL EXAMINATION THEIR RECORDS AT
WAVE.
MEANWHILE PERHAPS SUBJS USEFUL IN ADMIN DUTIES.

END OF MESSAGE

Partes
Hqs concurred termination contracts two WITHRUSH pilots

14-00000

TRANSMITTAL SLIP

TO:
ROOM NO.
BUILDING
REMARKS:
Can we get check
on State files - I
vaguely recall
talking with this gal
in 1968 just before
her fired up to USSR.
Framel lists

FROM:
ROOM NO.
BUILDING
REPLACES FORM
WHICH MAY BE
EXTENSION

14-00000

CLASSIFIED INTERNAL USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CON.FIDENTIAL SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)
Mr. Frank Bartes

FROM:
DCS/OSS
Archie J. Richardson/js
900 Key Building
404 Ames Building

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)
DCS HH-17967
9 January 1967

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

1. DO/OS
2. WH/C/CA
3. C/WH/COG
4. C/WH/COG/FI
5. Bell F.
6. Mr. Munson

Attached:
NO-380-66, dated
28 Dec 66.

Let's name Trace
Alicia and Frank Bartes.
Looks like there could
be something here.
nothing on the dancer
I love Frank Bartes'
201 file, what action

SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL USE ONLY UNCLASSIFIED

14-00000

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

SECRET/SENSITIVE

TO : Director, Domestic Contact Service
Attn.: Operational Support Staff

FROM : Chief, New Orleans Office

SUBJECT: Possible Opportunity to Recruit Agent in Place in Cuba

1. On Tuesday, 20 Dec 66, I received a call from Mr. Frank Bartes,
former President of the Consolidated Railroads of Cuba. He is an alien but
we have FBI approval to contact dated 14 Apr 61. Mr. Bartes is the source of
five reports on Cuba and we, as well as the FBI, have been in frequent contact
with him.

2. He called on me primarily to tell me that his mother had
arrived from Cuba and would be willing to talk to me.

3. In the course of our conversation Mr. Bartes told me that he
had a cousin still living in Cuba named Alicia Cruz Bustillo, who is a ballet
dancer associated with Alicia Alonzo, the prime ballerina of Cuba and also a
well-known Communist. Bartes says that Alicia Bustillo is not a Communist
and he and his family have been in contact with her.

4. Miss Bustillo, who is about 29 years of age, was one of the
group of Cuban ballet dancers which recently made a tour of Europe. A group
of these Cubans defected while the troupe was in Paris, and this received wide
publicity in our newspapers. Miss Bustillo, however, did not defect and
continued on the tour and returned to Cuba with the group. According to
Mr. Bartes, Alicia Bustillo has recently injured her foot and is not now
dancing, but is working as secretary to Alicia Alonzo.

5. Mr. Bartes told me that he had planned to meet Alicia Bustillo
in Paris and that she had agreed to meet him in Paris, but Mr. Bartes did
not have the money to make the trip nor did he think that he would be able
to obtain the necessary visa for the trip to Paris because of his status
as a Cuban refugee.

6. Mr. Bartes says that Miss Bustillo has traveled all over the
world with the Cuban ballet group and has visited most of the Communist
countries including China. He feels quite certain that the Cuban group will
take another tour and that he will be advised in advance of the date and
itinerary. He feels quite certain that he will be able to arrange a meeting
with Miss Bustillo provided the group visits a non-Communist country. He
stated that he has always been very close to Miss Bustillo and he considers
her almost as a sister. He feels quite certain that she would be willing to
help the US if she were approached in the proper manner, and he feels that
the approach should be made through him because of his relationship and
former closeness to her.

7. He says that he believes Miss Bustillo did not attempt to
leave Cuba because of the fact that her family is there and that she would
not leave unless she could also get her family out. He believes that,
despite the risk involved, she would be willing to act as an agent in
place.

SECRET/SENSITIVE

14-00000

SECRET/SENSITIVE

Director, Domestic Contact Service
Attn: Operational Support Staff

FROM : Chief, New Orleans Office

NC-380-66
DATE: 28 Dec 66

8. My relations with Mr. Bartes have been very good, and I am
inclined to believe what he says. However, this whole matter, of course,
would have to be evaluated by the Clandestine Services.

9. There is one other matter I would like to mention in connec-
tion with Mr. Bartes and that is that he served for two and a half months
with a group of Cuban fliers in the Congo, and he holds a pilot's license.
He did not tell me and I did not ask who the sponsors of this group were or
what their duties were. He did, however, mention a Colonel Waber and a
Mr. Saunders. I strongly suspect, of course, that this was an agency
operation and, if so, the Clandestine Services will already have a good
deal of information about Mr. Bartes.

10. I pass this on for whatever it is worth and, if there is
further information which I can provide, I shall be glad to do so.

Lloyd A.

SECRET/SENSITIVE

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

TOTAL COPIES

ADVANCE COPY

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

UNIT

TIME

BY

SECRET 041700Z

DIR WAVE CITE LEOP 3274

CHAPPIE WITHRUSH

REF: A. WAVE 7846
B. WAVE 7591
C. LEOP 3837

1. MARYINOTTI AND MACIOCE HAVE DEVOTED MOST OF THEIR TIME TO
TRAINING NAVARRO AND BARTES SINCE THEIR ARRIVAL IN CONGO.
FOLL IS SUMMARY OF RESULTS:

A. BARTES FIRST FLIGHT LEO 13 DEC, LAST FLIGHT 2 JAN. TOTAL
TIME IN AIR LEOP 23 PLUS 35 (IN WAVE 14 PLUS 55). SUBJ CONSIST-
ENTLY FAILS SET UP RADIO PANEL CORRECTLY: POWER SETTINGS USUALLY
WRONG FOR IN FLIGHT MANEUVERS; UNABLE PERFORM BASIC MANEUVERS
SUCH AS LAZY EIGHT, SPLIT S, CHANDELLE, ETC; ROUNDS OUT HIGH
ON LANDINGS; NAVIGATION EXTREMELY POOR; FAILS REPEATEDLY
TO ANSWER TOWER OPERATOR; AO FORCED RECOVERY OF
AIRCRAFT ON SEVERAL
OCCASIONS FROM AELERON ROLL; LIED ON NUMBER OCCASIONS RE FLIGHT
TIME WHEN AO IN BACK SEAT: CONSISTENTLY FORGETS USE CHECK
LIST; DRANK BEER BEFORE ONE FLIGHT, AND AO REFUSED FLY WITH

14-00000

IN 26440 Page 2 of 4

HIM

B. RENE GARCIA CLEARED HIM FOR SOLO 31 DEC AND TOLD SUBJ
FLY IN PATTERN MAKING LANDINGS, SUBJ FLEW TO RIVER HOUSE
WHERE HE BUZZED FRIENDS AND THEN ENGAGED IN DOG FIGHT WITH
NAVARRO, MADE ONLY ONE LANDING; DOES NOT RETAIN TRAINING
EVEN THOUGH REPEATED TIME AND AGAIN.

C. NAVARRO: FIRST FLIGHT LEO 16 DEC, LAST FLIGHT 3 JAN.
SICK THREE TIMES, ONCE FROM DRINKING TOO MUCH; GROUNDED ONCE
FOR DRINKING BEFORE A FLIGHT; DOES NOT CHECK VOR OR COMPASS
(IN FIRST FLIGHT COMPASS OFF 9 DEGREES AND DID NOT NOTICE);
WILL NOT DO 60 DEGREE TURN BECAUSE "I DON'T LIKE 60 DEGREE
TURNS"; SAME AS BARTES ON SIMPLE MANEUVERS IN AIR; TOUCH AND
GO LANDINGS TOLD REPEATEDLY USE 48 INCHES BUT STILL USES
42-43 INCHES; SPEED BRAKES DOWN ONE ENTIRE FLIGHT; POWER
SETTINGS AND MIXTURES CONSISTENTLY WRONG; CLEARED BY AO FOR
SOLO 31 DEC BUT ONLY TO FLY IN PATTERN AND MAKE TOUCH AND GO
LANDINGS, INSTEAD BUZZED RIVER HOUSE AND GOT INTO DOG FIGHT
WITH BARTES. WHEN AIRCRAFT RETURNED AO CHECKED G METER AND
FOUND MINUS THREE G REGISTERED. SUBJ SOAKING WET INDICATING HE
HAD BEEN IN SOME TROUBLE.

FULL REPORT FOLLOWS BY POUCH. ABOVE HIGHLIGHTS ONLY

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET

IN 26440 Page 3 of 4

BIT FULLY DOCUMENTED FROM AO NOTES TAKEN WHILE RIDING IN
BACK SEAT.

3. RENE GARCIA, ACTING CHIEF PILOT, TOLD AO'S THAT IN HIS
OPINION NEITHER MAN HAS HAD MORE THAN 250 FLIGHT HOURS EACH.
GARCIA, WHO PRONE PLAY UP PERUMEN PILOTS AS BEING BETTER THAN
THEY ARE, SAID BOTH NEED MINIMUM 50 ADDITIONAL FLIGHT HOURS.

4. MARYINOTTI AND MACIOCE HAVE MADE EVERY EFFORT POSSIBLE
TRAIN THESE MEN ADEQUATELY IN MINIMUM TIME, CONSISTENT WITH
SAFE OPERATION OF AIRCRAFT. DUE ALLOWANCE MADE FOR LANGUAGE
PROBLEM AND FACT T-28 NEW TO SUBJS, AO'S BELIEVE FOLL IS MINIMUM
REQUIRED, IN ADDITION TO WHAT ALREADY GIVEN, TO MAKE SUBJS
MARGINALLY ACCEPTABLE: TOTAL 55 MORE FLIGHT HOURS BROKEN
DOWN AS FOLLOWS - 8 TRANSITION; 25 FORMATION AND GUNNERY;
10 NAVIGATION; 12 INSTRUMENTS.

5. ON BASIS ABOVE RICANDA BELIEVES BARTES DEFINITELY NOT
WORTH ADDITIONAL HOURS REQUIRED TRAIN HIM TO MARGINAL
PROFICIENCY. THUS INTEND RETURN HIM TO CONUS UNLESS HQS
DISAPPROVES. NAVARRO IS AT BEST MARGINAL CASE ALSO. WEIGHED
AGAINST GIVING NAVARRO ADDITIONAL 54 HOURS (WHICH WILL REQUIRE
MINIMUM 4-5 WEEKS) IS TRANSITION TRAINING TO BE GIVEN THREE

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET

IN 26440 Page 4 of 4

RECENT PILOT ARRIVALS PLUS POSSIBILITY TRAINING 2-3 21ST SODN
PILOTS. ON BALANCE AND CONSIDERING FACT LEOP CANNOT AFFORD
TIE UP CONTAT AIRCRAFT IN TRAINING PROGRAM, BELIEVE ADVISABLE
ALSO RETURN NAVARRO TO CONUS.

6. REQUEST AS EARLY REPLY.

SECRET RE FLIGHT TRAINING

CFN: 3274 7846 7591 3037 MARYINOTTI MACIOCE NAVARRO BARTES
BARTES LEO 13 2 23 35 14 55 S CHANDELLE AO NO NO RENE GARCIA
31 NAVARRO NOT RETAIN NAVARRO 16 3 A NOT CHECK VOR 90 NOT NOTICE
WILL NOT 60 I 67 BARTES 42 42-43 AO 31 AO S G AO RENE GARCIA
AO'S 250 GARCIA 50 MARYINOTTI MACIOCE T-28 AO'S 55 - 8 25
17 12 RICANDA BARTES NAVARRO NAVARRO 53 4-5 2-3 21ST SADN
LEOP CANNOT NAVARRO

SECRET

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

TOTAL COPIES

ADVANCE COPY

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

UNIT

TIME

BY

SECRET 062222Z

LEOP INFO DIR CITE WAVE 7728

CHAPPIE WITHRUSH PBRUMEN

REF WAVE 7591

1. FRANCISCO BARTES (B), JUAN PERON (P), AND SANTIAGO MENDEZ
(M) DEPARTING NY VIA PAN AM 158/7 WITHOUT CONGO VISA. PLEASE MEET.

2. P AND M UNDER CONTRACT 3 DEC. P ADVANCED $800 AND M
ADVANCED $600. BOTH CONTRACTS STIPULATE BASE PAY USD 600 UNTIL
CERTIFIED BY FAC THAT SUBJECTS HAVE MET LOCAL STANDARDS FOR PIC.
CONTRACT CONTAINS CLAUSE FOR UPGRADING AUTOMATICALLY TO USD 800
BASE PAY.

3. P RECEIVED 6 PLUS 30 HOURS ACTUAL INSTRUMENT TRAINING AND
M RECEIVED 2 HOURS T-28 REFRESHER AND 4 HOURS AND 30 MIN ACTUAL
INSTRUMENT AND VOR WORK.

4. B RECEIVED US12 FROM ODURGE IN NEW ORLEANS AND P AND M
RECEIVED PBPRIME MULTI ENTRY DOCUMENTS MIAMI.

5. TO EXPEDITE P DEPARTURE UNABLE TO GIVE SECOND PLAQUE SHOT,
REQUEST LEOP GIVE IMMUNIZATION UPON ARRIVAL.

SECRET BARTES DEPARTING NY 7 DEC.

CFN 7720 7591 FRANCISCO BARTES B JUAN PERON P SANTIAGO MENDEZ M

6 Dec. 1965

14-00000

IN 08933
PAGE 2

NY VIA PAN AM 158/7 PM 3 P $800 M $600 USD 600 FAC PIC USD 800
P 6 30 M 2 T-28 4 30 VOR 1512 PM P

FEB 10 11 18 PM 66

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

TOTAL COPIES

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

UNIT

TIME

BY

SECRET 301717Z

LEOP INFO DIR CITE WAVE 7591

CHAPPIE WITHRUSH FORUMEN

1. FRANCISCO BARTES HAS CONCLUDED MIAMI FLIGHT EVALUATION.
SCHEDULED DEPART IN 7 DEC.

2. BARTES UNDER CONTRACT 1 DEC AND ADVANCED USD 600
REPRESENTING ONE MONTH SALARY ADVANCE. CONTRACT STIPULATES THAT
ONCE QUALIFIED IN ACCORD FOR FAC STANDARDS AS PIC, BASE SALARY
TO INCREASE TO USD 800.

3. SUBJECT RECEIVED 3 HOURS NAVIGATION GROUND SCHOOL,
1 HOUR SURVIVAL, 10 PLUS 55 T-28A FLT TIME; 4 HOURS ACTUAL
INSTRUMENTS AND 4 HOURS MULTIENGINE PROCEDURES IN APACHE; 17
HOURS T-28A AND C GROUND SCHOOL. IP RATES SUBJECT AS QUALIFIED
FOR MULTI-ENGINE CP BUT WILL REQUIRE TACTICS AND GUNNERY IF
UTILIZED IN T-28. HOLDS VALID PBPRIME PRIVATE PILOT LICENSE.
KNOWN PERSONNALY TO FAUSTO VALDES.

4. WILL CONFIRM ACTUAL DEPARTURE.

CFN 7591 FRANCISCO BARTES NY 7 1 USD 600 FAC PIC USD 800 3 1 18
55 T-28A 4 4 APACHE 17 T-28A C IP T-28 FAUSTO VALDES

14-00000

WITHRUSH PERSONNEL CABLE LOCATOR

NAME BARTES Clarens, Francisco Antonio WITHRUSH NUMBER 102

201 NUMBER 289885 C NUMBER

ACTION TAKEN CITE NUMBER IN NUMBER DATE

NOMINATED FOR WITHRUSH

FIELD TRACES REQUESTED
FIELD TRACES RETURNED N.D.

FIELD TRACES REQUESTED
FIELD TRACES RETURNED N.D.

FIELD TRACES REQUESTED
FIELD TRACES RETURNED N.D.

LOCAL I & N TRACES N.D. WAVE 3062 117 Jun 1965

LOCAL POLICE AND CREDIT TRACES N.D. WAVE 2901 88650 11 June 1965

LOCAL FBI TRACES N.D. WAVE 2516 81431 2 June 1965

CONTRACT SIGNED
NOTIFICATION OF POA GRANTED
DEPART U.S. LEOP 2837 11713 Dec 65
ARRIVED LEOPOLDVILLE
CONTRACT TERMINATION
RETURNED TO MIAMI
BANKING INSTRUCTIONS
LCFLUTTER
REQ LEOP ARRANGE BOARD
WITHOUT VISA WAVE 7590 04662 30 Nov 1965
CABLE SENT AUTHORIZING SUBJ BOARD WAVE 7569 04012 29 Nov 65
LEOP 2704 07286 8 Dec 65

14-0000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

TOTAL COPIES

1. REQUEST LEOP ARRANGE WITH PAN AM TO BOARD FOLLOWING
PERSONNEL NY FOR PAA 150 ON 7 DEC WITHOUT CONGO VISAS: SOD AB

FRANCISCO BARTES
JORGE NAVARRO
SANTIAGO MENDEZ
JUAN PERON

2. WILL CONFIRM ACTUAL DEPARTURE.
3. PLEASE ADVISE.

MICROFILMED
FEB 2 5 1966

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

TOTAL COPIES

1. PBPRIME MULTIPLE ENTRY PERMITS ISSUED TO ANGEL DE LA
CUESTA AND ERNESTO DESPAIGNE. I-512 ISSUED TO JORGE NAVARRO.

2. MIAMI ODURGE NOT IN RECEIPT AUTHORITY TO ISSUE I-512
FOR FRANCISCO BARTES, AND ADVISED SUBJECTS FILE LOCATED NEW
ORLEANS. RETURNING SUBJECT TO NEW ORLEANS TO CONCLUDE PERSONAL
AFFAIRS PRIOR TO DIRECT DEPARTURE FROM NEW ORLEANS TO NY/LEOP.
REQUEST ALIEN AFFAIRS STAFF ARRANGE FOR ISSUANCE I-512 IN NEW
ORLEANS (PER MIAMI SUGGESTION) AND ADVISE LORENTZ VIA TELECON
NAME OF CONTACT FOR BARTES. TO MEET URGENT LEOP PILOT REQUIRE-
MENTS, WISH FOR SUBJECT TO DEPART NY ON 7 DEC. PLEASE ADVISE.

SECRET

CFN 7567 PBPRIME ANGEL DE LA CUESTA ERNESTO DESPAIGNE I-512 JORGE
NAVARRO MIAMI ODURGE NOT IN I-512 FRANCISCO BARTES NEW ORLEANS
NY/LEOP I-512 LORENTZ VIA NY 7

14-00000

In the Name of God. Amen

Francisco Bartes Clarens, a citizen and resident of Metairie, Jefferson County, State of Louisiana being of sound and
disposing-mind and memory, do hereby make, publish and declare this to be my last

Will and Testament
hereby revoking any and all prior wills, codicils and testamentary dispositions.

FIRST I direct my executor to use the proceeds of all
insurance proceeds on my life payable to my estate to first pay debts, estate inheri-
tance taxes, claims and charges of administration and then I give and bequeath all
of my estate real, personal or mixed wheresoever situated to my beloved wife Esperanza
Vazquez Ramirez, 1608 Mason Smith, Metairie La.

I make, constitute and appoint Roberto Hall, 1019 W. 19 Terrace, Kansas City, Missouri as executor
of this my last Will and Testament, and that no bond or security will be required by such executor.

14-00000

SECRET

EXTRACT AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

BARTES CLARENS, FRANCISCO ANTONIO.

201-289885

SEX M DOB 7.

ICC-306-017

WAVE-OC483
04 DEC 67

CIT ?
OCC ?

FRANCISCO ANTONIO BARTES CLARENS FILE GIVES
NO INDICATION OF ANY EMPLOYMENT OTHER THAN
THE SHORT TERM CONGO ASSIGNMENT LATE 65

Indicate The Subject, Project Or
201 File No. In Which This
Form In To Be Filed.

14-00000

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I hereunto subscribe my name and affix my seal this 27th day of November, A. D. 1965 in the presence of attesting witnesses.

(SEAL)

The foregoing instrument, part being printed and the residue written, was subscribed, sealed, published and declared by Francisco Bartes Clarens as and for his last Will and Testament, in our presence and in the presence of each of us, and we, at the same time, at his request, in his presence and in the presence of each other, hereunto subscribe our names and addresses as attesting witnesses, this 27th day of November, A. D. 1965

Witness: Fernanda I. Twee
Residence: 3614 ROGERO RD JACKSONVILLE, FLA

Witness: Etenga
Residence: 4219 Arterian C.

Witness:
Residence:

14-00000

November 27, 1965

I hereby authorize any salaries or monies due me to be
paid to my checking account No. 0015-24-527 at The Nati-
onal Bank of Commerce in New Orleans located at 210
Baronne in said city.

Francisco Bartes

14-00000

SECRET

201 No. 289885

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, SOD/AB/OPS/3 - Larry Murphy

Operational Approval is hereby granted in the case of BARTES Clarens, Francisco Antonio for the purpose specified in your request
dated 9 September 1965

This Approval is based upon evaluation of information available to this
Office, and is granted under authority contained in CSI and CSI-F 10-5.

Edward R. Brown
01/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

14-00000

SECRET

Chief, KUSCA
Chief, WH Division
Chief of Station, AMAVE

PJDUST/LCFLUTTER/PERUMEN
Transmittal of LCFLUTTER Results
Action: None Required

1. Forwarded herewith (BYRAT) are the following LCFLUTTER
reports with below list of IND numbers, and if available, 201
numbers and cryptonyms: Also forwarded herewith are copies
of the reports to be transmitted to COS, Caracas and COS, Tegucigalpa, Honduras.

14-00000

SECRET

72650
15 November 1965

Subject: Iden A

Subject was interviewed and tested on 13 November 1965
at a safe site in the Miami area at the request of Edward W.
LORENTZ. The interview was conducted in English.

Subject is being considered for use as a pilot with the
WITHRUSH Program.

RESULTS

Subject has never cooperated with any Castro intelligence
or security service and except for PBPRIME he has no connection
or agreement with the government of any other country.

Subject has never taken part in any communist activity
and he is not obligated to any Cuban exile group.

Subject has been essentially truthful in regard to his
personal history and he does not feel he is liable to black-
mail for any reason. Subject has never been involved in the
use or sale of narcotics.

There is no indication that subject has engaged in homo-
sexual activities in his adult life.

DETAILS

Subject stated that he is an informant for the ODENVY
office in New Orleans, Louisiana. His ODENVY contact is Iden B.
Subject stated he is a close friend of Iden C, who is associated with the WITH Program.

14-00000

SECRET

72650
15 November 1965

Iden A Francisco Antonio BARTES Clarens
DPOB: 14 September 1920
Havana, Cuba

Iden B Warren C. de BRUEYS

Iden C Fausto VALDEZ

14-00000

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Alien Affairs Staff, OS
ATTENTION: Mr. Lou Veinskowski
SUBJECT: Project WITHRUSH

SOD and AF Division are jointly interested in obtaining
the services of the Cuban nationals identified below for employ-
ment in the Congo under Project WITHRUSH.

14-00000

SECRET

Name: David R. RODRIGUEZ Saufiana
Status: Re-entry Unknown Document
DOB: 22 October 1931
POB: Esperanza, Cuba
"A" Number: 12438004
POA Granted: 6 July 1965
OS Case Number: 220764
Remarks: None.

Name: Francisco Antonio BARTES Clarens Re-entry
Status: Unknown Document
DOB: 14 September 1926
POB: Havana, Cuba
"A" Number: 12552976
POA Granted: 7 October 1965
OS Case Number: 225714
Remarks: None.

Name: Juan PERON Sesa Re-entry
Status: Unknown Document
DOB: 24 November 1940
POB: Havana, Cuba
"A" Number: 13160150
POA Granted: 30 November 1964
OS Case Number: 2234635
Remarks: None.

It is requested that your office facilitate prompt and
favorable action by the Miami office, INS, to provide the docu-
mentation required.

Sidney D. Atambridge
Security Officer
Special Operations Division

14-00000

SECRET

LEOP INFO DIR CITE WAVE 7286

CHAPPIE/WITHRUSH/PBRUMEN

REFS: LEOP 1841
