14-00000

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

Accession No. 48405

Date Received SA

DATE

TO Room No.

OFFICER'S INITIALS Received Forwarded

1. Minchunky Nice Verbal approval from M Oden, C1/OA

2. WH/CUBA read this

3. WHYB Written request for OA amendment submitted to C1/OA same date

4. Mca

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10. Cable desk

Each comment should be numbered.

A line should be drawn across the period until replacement arrives.

Officer designations should be used.

Each officer should initial (check).

Action desired or action taken shown.

Routing sheet should always be returned.

For officer designations see separate.

Paul:

Please draft cable to station and coordinate with Dick Rastetter.

"Hqs. has no objection use subject to contact Amourette B. Due present situation Amourette-A, suggest station use discretion in contacting Amourette-10-11 if such is felt necessary to maintain latter's interest.

Suggest contacts be kept to a minimum during cooling off period.

Rastetter edited above

12 Sept.

FORM NO. 51-19

MAR 1967

SECRET

201-168881

DATE 10 SEPT 1957

TO DIRECTOR

FROM HAVANA

ACTION WH 5

INFO CI, CI/OPS, CI/OA, FI/RI 2, PP 2, PP/OPS, S/C 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET ROUTING

RE: HAVA 014 (IN 48222)

RE PARA 3 REF REQUEST APPROVAL USE ARTHUR G. VAIVADA AS CONTACT AMOURETTE B, AMOURETTE 10 IF NECESSARY, AND OTHER KUCAGE ASSETS AT STATION DISCRETION PENDING REPLACEMENT GALLEGOS. WOULD NOT INTERFERE WITH HIS KUTUBE DUTIES.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: STATION COULD PROVIDE CONTACT FOR AMOURETTE-B AND POSSIBLY A ON INTERIM BASIS.

CS COPY

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

HKB-W-2362

DISPATCH NO.

FROM Chief, WHD

SUBJECT GENERAL Operational

SPECIFIC Arthur G. VAIVADA

REFERENCE: HWH-W-2268, 22 May 1957

ACTION REQUESTED: For Subject's Information

Subject's contract dated 1 August 1954 was recently amended to read as follows:

"Effective 14 May 1957, said contract, as further amended by deleting in its entirety Paragraph 1 (b) and substituting in lieu thereof the following:

'1 (b) Additional compensation calculated at the rate of $5,235 per annum.'

All other terms and conditions of the original contract, as amended, remain in full force and effect."

17 July 1957

Distribution:

Habana

RI

WH/III/Cuba/Chrono

WH/Mailroom

Subject

C. KING, C/WHD

WH/III/Cuba/HCMacAuley/fs

R. N. DAHLGREN, C/WH/III

FORM NO. 51-29

JUN 1949

SECRET

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VIA: Air Pouch

DISPATCH NO. TRS-A-347

TO : Chief, Foreign Branch

FROM : Chief of Station, San José, Costa Rica

DATE: 20 May 1949

SUBJECT: GENERAL- OPERATIONS

SPECIFIC: Request for Project Authorization

REFERENCE: TZP-W-411

1. Authorization is hereby requested for the project described below, which we plan to initiate on 1 June 1949. In view of the comment contained in paragraph 2 of referenced communication, we are assuming that commencement of this project on a simple exploratory basis has already been approved by headquarters. No further commitments, other than those described below, will be made.

A. Objectives

(1) Cutout services, as suggested by headquarters, in an effort to test Subject's abilities.

(2) As a basic and continuing assignment to permit and encourage development of Subject's best local contacts as well as in the hope of filling a long-felt need in our operational pattern, he will be assigned to the general topic of labor; specifically, communist penetration of local non-communist labor groups and theoretical developments which are of interest regardless of group designation.

(3) Subject appears to be genuinely interested and to possess an unusual appreciation for operational ways and means, which is seldom encountered. For this reason, none of his assignments will be exclusive, and he will be encouraged to follow up such leads and opportunities as arise in the course of his daily occupations regardless of any objective and target assignments.

B. Targets

(1) Subject will commence by serving as cutout for Hugger, who has always held out great promise but never been properly developed or directed.

(2) In the labor field, the principal and only target at the moment is the only labor federation, the Rerum Novarum.

(3) Subject will represent our only contact among the student groups and certain allied "intellectual" societies. Any activity in this category showing promise may subsequently become an assigned target.

C. Cryptonym and Essential Data on Personnel

The designation "Hydropathic", heretofore applied to subject individual, is hereby discarded. He will hereafter be designated by San Jose Station Symbol No. 26. For essential data on personnel, see TZP-A-365, Part I and II.

D. Control and Contact

Judging by Subject's background data and his already demonstrated cooperative attitude, we do not feel that control and direction of his activities will be any problem. Contact, owing to the nature of this project, will be frequent and carried out in any convenient manner, generally in one or the other of our respective homes.

E. Cover

Subject had planned to and has established himself in Costa Rica for entirely personal reasons, prior to any contact with this office. He has a Costa Rican wife, attends the university, and lives a perfectly normal life which any assignments from us will not disrupt. Our only anticipated problem is that of routine contacts between Subject and the Chief of Station. That matter will be handled with care and discretion.

F. Cost

Subject has agreed to serve for a salary equivalent to $50.00 per month, to be paid in colones. To offset this expense we plan to dispense with the services of Hucklebone who is presently receiving $400.00 per month.

G. Timing and other Factors

Our preliminary interviews with Subject lead us to believe that he will be the interested and reliable American cut out for which this station has long felt a need. His greatest virtue in this respect appears to be an understanding of operational methods and an appreciation of relative values with respect to information. It is hoped to make this a permanent project, but our plans and our arrangements with Subject are considered to be probationary, dependent entirely upon his development and future usefulness.

Elmer C. Mercer

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VIA: ATE POUCH

DISPATCH NO. TZP-A-365/01 Part II

TO Acting Chief, FET DATE: November 1948

FROM Chief of Station, Panama City, Panama.

SUBJECT: GENERAL- Operations

SPECIFIC: Operational Data - HYDROPATHIC PART II

1. The subject of TZP-1-365 Part I is HYDROPATHIC.

2. Subject is best qualified to serve as a cutout in handling informants. He has had experience along those lines in cultivating and collecting information from the following individuals:

Government Oppositionists:

Lr. José PEZAT

Lic. Angel

Eng. Luis A CAUZ

Prof. Luis PALAS

Government Supporters:

Lic. Demetri MARTINEZ

Lic. Alberto SALLO

Lic. Generoso SILOS

As a result of the recent meeting between Elmer C. Mercer and Grover J. Waring, Subject has been recruited for the specific task of acting as a cutout in handling HYDROCYST I, who can be handled more profitably if transferred to the control of Mercer's station. Subject to Home Office approval, no definite commitments have been made in this case.

3. Subject has a working knowledge of the following subjects:

a. Protocol

b. Liaison methods pertaining to intelligence in Latin American countries and inter-departmental liaison within our own government.

c. Communications systems. Subject transmits and receives about 12 - 16 words per minute in Morse code.

d. The political structure of Latin American governments.

e. Subversive potential and leading subversive personalities of most Latin American countries.

f. Subject is trained in the use of firearms, jungle warfare, and has studied and worked with maps and charts, and is acquainted with surveillance and evasion procedures.

g. His primary activity after his arrival in the new area may of itself be useful. However, it is doubtful if this man will be able to devote any large portion of his time to our work until such time as he is thoroughly oriented.

4. Subject is best qualified to procure information in Latin American countries, particularly Panama and Costa Rica.

5. After he has established himself, Subject is interested in traveling in Argentina, Chile and Brazil.

6. He is willing to travel for us and subject to Home Office approval, it is planned to introduce HYDROPATHIC to HYDROCYST who will, in turn, introduce HYDROPATHIC to HYDROCYST I and, if approved, to HYDROCYST II. For the sake of cover, this is to be done on the basis that HYDROCYST and HYDROPATHIC are lodge brothers. HYDROPATHIC will join that organization in order to build up the cover. (Paragraph 9, TZP-2-365 Part I).

7. The number of people that will work for Subject is undetermined. Tentatively we have in mind HYDROCYST I and HYDROCYST II and, if he recruits then, the subjects underlined in red in Paragraph 16 of TZP-A-565 Part I. It might be well to start collecting biographic data on the latter three individuals at this time.

8. Subject is employed by another agency, but that employment will be terminated in the near future.

9. Subject has been recruited on an Embassy Intelligence Officer basis. It is possible that he knows the ultimate destination of any information he may submit.

10. As presently planned, HYDROCYST and HYDROPATHIC will be acquainted with each other. The turnover could be effected without these agents meeting, but then it would be more difficult to build up the lodge cover story. It would even be possible for HYDROPATHIC to communicate with HYDROCYST since both have a knowledge of Morse Code. However, it is believed that future information from HYDROCYST I will not have its primary value in this area.

11. Subject will be briefed to communicate by letter-drop. Here again, a lodge connection might be used as this is the present system which HYDROCYST I employs in forwarding communications to HYLEOCYST.

12. Subject will be briefed to report in writing and to require his sub-agents to do so wherever possible.

13. Subject cannot be expected to devote any major portion of his time to our work until he has built up his cover and is oriented in his new surroundings. Although fluent in the language, he will probably encounter a good deal of new terminology.

14. Subject has entered into a tentative oral contract to perform services for us for a salary of $50.00 per month. This can be made into a written contract at any time.

15. Subject's tentative continuing project is outlined in paragraph 2 above.

16. Subject should be capable of initiating his own projects.

17. Starting in February 1949, it will be necessary to pay subject $50.00 U.S. dollars per month as indicated in paragraph 14 above.

18. Subject has been told that if his services prove satisfactory, he can expect an increase in salary. No specific amount was discussed.

19. It is contemplated that this station may be required to pay certain travel expenses for Subject. If done, this will be charged against Project Development.

20. No cost of purchase of information is involved at this time.

21. Subject's superiors regard this man as highly dependable. He has had considerable experience in writing reports and has remarked that his two principal criticisms of intelligence reporting as he has observed it in this area is that the reporting is inclined to be sensational rather than factual and that most people have nothing to report other than that which the opposition is willing that they receive. He should have a fair concept of security. However, general security in this area is very lax and he may have subconscious bad habits.

22. In view of his background, Subject should only be good in semi-covert work.

23. If this man is kept under cover he might eventually effect a penetration of scholastic or parlor-pink circles. It is presumed that this would be on a low level.

24. This individual could easily be recruited for a full-time job with our organization. However, it is believed that more is to be gained by starting him off in this manner, perhaps giving him periodic schooling and gradually increasing his activities and responsibilities.

Grover J. Waring

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

MEXICO CITY

NIGHT 28 SEPTEMBER LIFTER-3 SAID VLT CALLED MEETING NATIONAL DIRECTORATE SEPT 21, AT WHICH LIMOLD-1 PRESENT, AND TOLD GROUP PLANNED CALL PRESS CONFERENCE SEPT 23 TO MAKE EXPOSURE RE ODYOKE INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES MEXI.

SEPT 25 VLT SPOKE BRIEFLY TO NUMBER OFFICIALS AT NOM ABOUT PRESS RELEASE AND SAID THAT TO GAIN MAXIMUM IMPACT HE ADDED CHARGE THAT L-1 AND RACIEL HERNANDEZ WERE THREATENED. ON QUESTIONING BY L-8, VLT SAID NO NEW ATTEMPTS MADE AGAINST PPS PEOPLE BUT BELIEVES SOME ODYOKE AGENCY HAS POSSIBLY ONE MEMBER NATIONAL DIRECTORATE OR PROBABLY ONE CENTRAL COMMITTEE MEMBER WORKING FOR IT, BUT ADDED THIS TYPE OF THING DIFFICULT UNCOVER AND PROVE.

L-8 HAS TALKED TO ADRIANA SEVERAL TIMES SINCE EXPOSURE AND SHE SAYS PPS HAS NO PROOF OF CHARGES, AND NO EVIDENCE, DOCUMENTARY OR OTHERWISE, WHICH NOT PUBLISHED IN PRESS. THERE STILL NO EVIDENCE L-1 HAS REPORTED MOST RECENT APPROACH, AND NO EVIDENCE HERNANDEZ HAS REPORTED MORE THAN FIRST MEETING AND FIRST TELEPHONE CALL TO PPS.

L-8 HAS TALKED TO HERNANDEZ SEVERAL TIMES SINCE PRESS RELEASE, AND LATTER ANGRY WITH VLT WHO FAILED CONSULT HIM BEFORE PRESS CONFERENCE. HERNANDEZ SAID VLT HAD PROMISED MATTER WOULD BE DROPPED AND NO PUBLICITY WOULD BE GIVEN APPROACH. HERNANDEZ NOW FEARS ODYCKE AGENCY WHICH APPROACHED HIM WILL HAVE HIM FIRED FROM HIS TWO JOBS, AND REALIZES PPS IN NO POSITION HELP HIM.

L-8 BELIEVES VLT MADE EXPOSURE THIS TIME IN EFFORT MAXE SOME FAVORABLE PROPAGANDA AT EXPENSE PBPRIME, KNOWING THAT INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES OF LATTER HAVE BEEN "EXPOSED" IN NUMBER PLACES RECENTLY. ALSO, VLT VERY POSSIBLY TRYING OFFSET EXPECTED ADVERSE CRITICISM AS RESULT CHIHUAHUA INCIDENT 23 SEPT IN WHICH SOME UGOCM. (PPS) PEOPLE INVOLVED. ACCORDING L-8, PPS AND VLT FEEL GOM NOT INTERESTED PPS CHARGES AND WILL NOT SERIOUSLY INVESTIGATE IF IN FACT ANY EFFORT MADE AT ALL. VLT PLANS SPEECH IN CONGRESS ON 5 OCT, AND ALTHOUGH ADRIANA SAID SPEECH WILL DEAL PRIMARILY WITH ECONOMIC MATTERS, L-8 FEELS CERTAIN VLT WILL DISCUSS ODYOKE INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES MEXI.

PRESS MORNING 29 SEPT CARRIED ARTICLE ON INTERVIEW LUIS ECHEVARRIA MINISTER OF GOBERNACION HAD WITH NUMBER REPORTERS 28 SEPT.

ECHEVARRIA SAID-VLT GAVE HIM DECLARATION 25 SEPT REGARDING SUPPOSED ACTS EXPIONAGE AND BRIBERY INVOLVING TWO OFFICIALS PPS. ECHEVARRIA SAID IN VIEW FACT ONE OF TVC PERSONS ACCUSED BY PPS IS FOREIGNER (TORELLI), GOBERNACION HAD INITIATED AN INVESTIGATION, BUT THAT FACTS PRESENTED BY PPS DO NOT CONSTITUTE EXPIONAGE, SINCE NEITHER PPS OFFICIAL INVOLVED IS PUBLIC OFFICIAL OR FUNCTIONARY. ADDED THAT IF FACTS CAN BE PROVEN IT MAY BE THAT THEY COULD BE CHARGED WITH THREATENING PHYSICAL HARM TO PPS OFFICIALS AND THEIR FAMILIES.

BENADUM TALKED TO LITEMPO-1 23 SEPT RE VLT CHARGES. LITEMPO-1 APPEARED NOT AT ALL CONCERNED, SAID VLT HAS MAKE SOME KIND OF SPECTULAR CHARGES PERIODICALLY IN ORDER PROVE TO PPS RANK AND FILE HE HAS NOT JOINED PRI, AND INDICATED, SON PLANS DC NOTHING ABOUT CHARGES. BENADUM PLANS MENTION TO LITEMPO-4 AT FIRST OPPORTUNITY

LIJERSEY-5 TOLD GERENDE 23 SEPT HE HAD NOT SEEN LIJERSEY-1 SINCE TURN OVER TO CASE OFFICER IN 1957. L-5 DOES NOT KNOW LIHOLD-1 AND BELIEVES LIJERSEY-1, IF QUESTIONED, WOULD DENY ANY INTEL CONNECTIONS AND NOT REVEAL NAMES OTHER KUBARK PEOPLE THEN KNOWN TO HIM.

VIEW ABOVE DO NOT PLAN HAVE L/S SEE L/L.

25 VLT UOM L-1 RACIEL HERNANDEZ L-8 VLT NO NEW PPS ODYOKE L-B

ADRIANA PPS NO PROOF NO EVIDENCE NOT PUBLISHED NO EVIDENCE L-1

NO EVIDENCE HERNANDEZ PPS L-8 HERMANDEZ VLT HERNANDEZ VLT NO

PUBLICITY HERNANDEZ ODYOKE PPS NO POSITION L-8 VLT

VLT CHIHUAHUA

NOT SERIOUSLY VLT 5 OCT ADRIANA L-8 VLT ODYOKE 29 LUIS ECHEVARRIA

GOBERNACION 28 ECHEVARRIA VLT 25 SEPT HPS ECHEVARRIA PPS TORELLI

GOBERNACION PPS NOT CONSTITUTE PPS PPS BENADUM LITEMPO-1 28 RE

VLT LITEMPC-1 NOT AT VLT PPS NOT JOINED PRI GOM BENADUM LITEMPO-4

LIJERSEY-5 GERENDE 23 NOT SEEN LIJERSEY-1 1957 L-5 NOT KNOW

LIMOLD-1 LIJERSEY-1 NOT REVEAL KUBARK NOT PLAN L/5 L/1

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

NOTE STATE TELEON 693 OF 24 SEPT INTERNATIONAL RESEARCH ASSOCIATES MENTIONED IN APPARENT FOUP EL DIA ARTICLE REF 9.

FULL TEXT VICENTE LOMBARDO TOLEDANO PRESS CONFERENCE BEING POUCHED.

INDEX.

MORNING PRESS CARRIED PRESS CONFERENCE Given Bid VICENTE LOMBARDO TOLEDANO

STATEMENT of EARNINGS and DEDUCTIONS

EMPLOYEE NAME: NOEMAYR HAROLD R

LEGEND of ACTION CODES

1. Promotions

2. Periodic Step Increase

3. Field Allotment

4. Salary Differential

5. Leave Without Pay

6. Hospital, Insurance, Credit Union

7. Overpayment

8. Tax Deduction Change

9. Allowances

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

SUBJECT: Termination of Contract - Ross L. Crozier

1. Attached is the original of Form 1683, Clearance Sheet for Termination of Contract Personnel, for retention in your file. A copy has been forwarded to the Office of Security for their records.

2. Also attached is Mr. Crozier's letter of resignation. In accordance with the provision of his contract providing for a ninety day notice, the resignation becomes effective close of business 28 November 1963.

Desmond FitzGerald

Chief, Special Affairs Staff

NOTIFICATION OF ESTABLISHMENT OF MILITARY COVER BACKSTOP

REMARKS: History: 1933 - J- NOC; Aug 34 - 609 87 NOC, overseas; Sept 30 - 31 - NOC, CCALS; Sept 10 - Jan 53 - Jul 03 - DAC, Regs; Aug 53 - NOC, CONDE; Sept 01 - 60 - NGO, CORD:

Subject will use above information for back-stopping and use for commercial use only. Should he ever have need to apply for a governmental position, he will contact this office and will ignore above information and use CIA from May 1953 on.

And address not known.

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Central Cover Staff

ATTENTION: Mr. Charles Danish

SUBJECT: Termination of Contract Personnel - Ross L. Crozier

1. Mr. Ross L. Crozier, a Career Agent assigned to Special Affairs Staff, has tendered his resignation from the Agency. In accordance with the terms of his contract, he gave 90 days notice making his termination effective close of business 28 November 1963.

2. Subject's employment history was established by Mr. Biladeau of the Central Cover Staff in conjunction with the Outplacement Branch of the Personnel Operations Division. Mr. Crozier was advised that he should indicate employment by CIA from his EOD date (1 June 1949) through the above termination date when applying for a position with another Government Agency. If seeking employment with private business, however, he was to utilize the employment history provided him by the Outplacement Branch.

3. It is requested that Central Cover Staff's records be noted accordingly. Contract Personnel Division should be requested to refer all inquiries concerning Crozier's employment to the Outplacement Branch of the Personnel Operations Division, effective immediately. The Outplacement Branch will acknowledge Agency employment when the inquiry comes from a Government source, and will deny Agency affiliation to all other inquirers.

Desmond FitzGerald

Chief, Special Affairs Staff

TERMINATION SECRECY OATH

I, Ross L. Crozier, am about to terminate my association with the Organization. I realize that, by virtue of my duties with the Organization, I have been the recipient of information and intelligence which concerns the present and future security of our country. I am aware that the unauthorized disclosure of such information is prohibited by the espionage laws of our government which specifically requires the protection of intelligence sources and methods from unauthorized disclosure. Accordingly, I SOLEMNLY SWEAR, WITHOUT MENTAL RESERVATION OR PURPOSE OF EVASION, AND IN THE ABSENCE OF DURESS, AS FOLLOWS:

1. I will never divulge, publish, or reveal by writing, word, conduct, or otherwise, any information relating to the national defense and security and particularly information of this nature relating to intelligence sources, methods, personnel, fiscal data, or security measures to anyone, including, but not limited to, any future governmental or private employer, private citizen, or government employee or official without the express written consent of the Chief of the Organization or his authorized representative.

2. I have been invited to submit in writing any monetary claims I may have against the Organization or our government which may in any way necessitate the disclosure of information described herein. I have been advised that any such claims will receive full legal consideration. In the event, however, that I am not satisfied with the decisions of the Organization concerning any present or future claims I may submit, I will not take any other action to obtain satisfaction without prior written notice to the Organization, and then only in accordance with such legal and security advice as the Organization will promptly furnish me.

3. I do not have any documents or materials in my possession, classified or unclassified, which are the property of, or in custodial responsibility of the Organization, having come into my possession as a result of my duties with the Organization or otherwise.

4. During my exit processing and during my period of employment with the Organization I have been given an opportunity to report all information about the Organization, its personnel, and its operations which I consider should receive official cognizance. Hence, I am not aware of any information which it is my duty, in the national interest, to disclose to the Organization, nor am I aware of any violations or breaches of security which I have not officially reported, except as set forth on the reverse side of this sheet or on other attachments.

5. I have been advised that, in the event I am called upon by the properly constituted authorities to testify or provide information which I am pledged hereby not to disclose, I will notify the Organization immediately; I will also advise said authorities of my secrecy commitments to our government and will request that my right or need to testify be established before I am required to do so.

6. I am aware of the provisions and penalties of the espionage laws of our government and am fully aware that any violation on my part of certain matters sworn to by me under the terms of these laws, and that violation of other portions of this oath are subject to appropriate action, including such dissemination of the violation as the circumstances warrant.

I have read and understand the contents of this oath and voluntarily affix my signature hereto with the full knowledge that this oath was executed for the mutual benefit of myself and our government, and that it will be retained in the files of the Organization for its future use or for reference by me at any time in the future that I may be requested or ordered to testify or disclose any of the matters included within the scope of this oath.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have set my hand and seal this 30th day of August 1963

Ross L. Crozier

Witnessed by me this 30 day of August 1963

George Podaly

30 August 1963

Washington 25, D.C.

DIRECTOR,

Central Intelligence Agency,

Washington 25, D.C.

I hereby tender my resignation from the Central Intelligence Agency as a Career Agent. In accordance with the termination clause in my contract, request that all salary be continued for a period of 90 days from this date.

I understand that my services are to be available to the Agency during the period of 90 days.

Ross L. Crozier

1607 S. 26th St

Arlington 6, Va.

CLEARANCE SHEET FOR TERMINATION OF CONTRACT PERSONNEL

PERSONAL DATA

Crozier, Ross L.

1607 No. 26th St. Arlington 7, Va.

Special Affairs Staff

Ops Officer

CONTRACT DATA

1 June 1957

28 November 1963

Resume

On qualifications there just aren't any in the civilian or industrial category. The university work in Economic Sciences was real, not cover, but interrupted before I got the degree (5 years). However, I specialized in Economic Theory, which when considered that I studied in three Latin American Universities (Costa Rica, Guatemala and Cuba) does give me some qualification as a "Latin American Consultant".

The classification as "Research Analyst" is cover except for that part of which the "Latin American" background could be utilized.

Although I have had no business experience in an administrative or executive capacity, I am sure that I could qualify in that work, especially if it were in connection with Latin America or utilizing my Spanish language ability.

As you can see by the above, unfortunately there is no commercial "counterpart" for the type of work I have been doing for 15 years or more. My feeling is that we should consult the "local outplacement" man first, on the possibility that there is a local opportunity, but the opportunities in the Latin American field will be greater.

(In addition to the above, I might add that I have performed best in "operations" work" which involves planning, direction and coordination.)

EMPLOYMENT HISTORY - Ross L. Crozier - 10 July 1963

Organization/Location Dates Title/Position

60th FA Bn., Ft. Bragg, N.C. 29 Aug 40-8 Sep 41 Survey Operator

USAF, Canal Zone and IBT 9 Sep 41-6 Jul 45 Intelligence NCO

USAF, Canal Zone 18 Apr 46-18 Apr 49 Intelligence NCO

University of Costa Rica 15 May 49-15 July 53 Student/G.I. Bill

University of Costa Rica 1 Aug 52-1 Nov 52 Adm Asst/Photography

Department of Geology

Studio Indiana (Photography) 1 Nov 52-1 Jul 53 Owner/Mngr.

San Jose, Costa Rica

Commercial Photography 1 Jan 54-1 May 54 Photographer/Indep.

Guatemala City, Guatemala

Pan American Foundation, 1 Sep 54-1 Sep 56 Student/School of

University of Florida, Economic Sciences,

Gainesville, Fla. University of Havana.

Scholarship Grant to Cuba.

(Director: Curt Wilgus)

Public Surveys Institute, 1 Feb 57-31 Aug 60 Research Analyst &

1511 Bryant St., Dallas, Texas Latin American

In Havana: Feb 57 - Apr 58 Consultant.

In Mexico: June 58 - Apr 60

Clarence A. DePew & Sons, 1 Sep 60-1Sep 61 Research Analyst &

230 Park Ave., N.Y.C. Latin American

Branch Office, Coral Gables, Fla. Consultant.

Zenith Technical Enterprises, Inc 1 Sep 61-15 Jan 63 Research Analyst &

Bldg 25, Coral Reef Drive, Latin American

Miami 56, Fla. Consultant.

Empl Id No. 59-0938096

U.S. Army Element, 15 Jan 63-To date Latin American

Joint Operations Group 7753 Consultant.

The Pentagon, Wash 25, D.C.

Tel. Oxford 7-7510 (Code 11)

Employment History:

Organization From To Title/Position

60th FA Bn, Ft. Bragg, NC 29 Aug 40 8 Sep 41 Survey Operator

USAF, Canal Zone-Burma IBT 9 Sep 41 6 Jul 45 Intelligence NCO

USAF, Canal Zone 18 Apr 46 18 Apr 49 Intelligence NCO

Central Intelligence Agency 1 June 49 1 June 57 Contract Agent

1430 E Street,

Washington 25, D.C.

Central Intelligence Agency 1 June 57 To Present Career Agent.

2430 E Street,

Washington 25, D.C.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

RE VAIVADA COVER. ROBERT S BENJAMIN WILLING IN PRINCIPLE ASSIST IN PROCURING WORK PAPERS AND COVERING ANY FRIEND NAUMAN. AS HQS INFORMED, EXPECT BENJAMIN WILL BE SATISFIED NOMINAL SUM COMPENSATE ADDITIONAL EXPENSES.

BENJAMIN TOLD NOTHING EXCEPT WOULD APPRECIATE HIS MAKING PLACE FOR A FRIEND. NO COMMITMENT OR OBLIGATION OF ANY KIND.

LEAVE DECISION TO HQS. IN EVENT ANY INTEREST WOULD PERHAPS BE WISE HAVE VAIVADA COME MEET AND TALK WITH BENJAMIN.

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

TO Chief of Station, Mexico City

FROM Chief, WHD

SUBJECT GENERAL Operational

SPECIFIC Harold R. NOEMAYER Ross L. CROZIER

REFERENCE: HMW-6420, June 1958 (50-6-67/1)

ACTION REQUESTED: None. For Your Information.

Forwarded herewith is a copy of Subject's PRQ.

Subject's Covert Security Approval was amended on 3 June 1958 to permit Subject's use in Mexico.

4 June 1958

J. C. KING, C/WHD

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

TO : Chief, WH Division

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT: Operational/Harold R. NOEMAYR

ACTION REQUIRED: Advise ETA of NOEMAYR's replacement so that NOEMAYR can make departure plans.

REFERENCE: HMMA-13726, 11 September 1959

1. The Station would appreciate any information which Headquarters can provide concerning an ETD for Harold R. NOEMAYR and his family and an ETA for NOEMAYR's replacement. NOEMAYR's tentative ETD of 1 January 1960 is only slightly more than one month away and he has visas to obtain in addition to other departure preparations.

2. NOEMAYR was instructed by the Station to proceed with the necessary correspondence with Mexican, Costa Rican, Cuban, and Panamanian authorities for the required police certificates for his wife since she is not a citizen of PBPRIME and is applying for an Immigrant Visa. He has already received the necessary documents from Costa Rica and Cuba and expects to obtain the Mexican certificate within the next two days. No reply from Panama has been received as yet although it should arrive shortly. As soon as the Panamanian clearance and that from Mexico is obtained, NOEMAYR will submit all papers to the local ODACID installation and request the necessary documentation for the travel of himself and his family. As Headquarters is aware, the Immigrant Visa for NOEMAYR's wife will be valid only so long as she travels within four months of the date issued.

3. An early reply to this dispatch would be appreciated.

25 November 1959

Willard C. Curt

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

TO Chief of Station, Mexico City

FROM Chief, WHD

SUBJECT GENERAL Operational

SPECIFIC Harold R. NOEMAYER Ross L. CROZIER

Action Requested: Please Notify Subject

Reference is made to Subject's contract effective 1 June 1957.

Effective 1 June 1957, said contract is amended by adding after sub-paragraph (b) of Paragraph 1, entitled "Allowances," the following:

"(c) You will be entitled to a cost of living allowance in conformance with the rates prescribed in applicable current regulations."

All other terms and conditions of the contract remain in full force and effect.

9 June 1958

J. C. KING, CHIEF, WHD

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

TO : Chief, Foreign Division

FROM : Chief of Station, San José

DATE: 10 July 1951

SUBJECT: GENERAL- Administrative

SPECIFIC Ross Lester CROZIER

Ref: TRSA-925-18-6-

Attached herewith are the fingerprints and samples of handwriting of subject to be attached to the reference.

Eugene T. Robey

Name Ross L. Crosier

Nationality USA

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

TO : Chief of Station, San Jose

FROM : Acting Chief, Foreign Branch

DATE: 21 December 1948

SUBJECT: GENERAL- Operations

SPECIFIC Project Hydropathic

REF: TZP-A-365, Part I

The attached document is forwarded to your station for examination in connection with the development of Project Hydropathic. You are directed to forward this document to Panama City when it has served its purpose.

R.A. Mac Millan

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

TO Chief of Station, San Jose

FROM Division

DATE: MAY 25 1951

SUBJECT Operational

SPECIFIC TOLANOID

REF: TILS-633

A review of the compromise of the technical surveillance and the part played in it by HUMANIST indicates that HUMANIST was not compromised by the former's confession. It is quite probable that HUMANIST did not know that an American other than yourself took part in the operation and could not have even given it to the police. It is requested that HUMANIST not be approached.

It would be natural for HUMANIST to attempt to minimize the extent of his confession to you, and he may possibly have given the police Montis data and a description of AID. Because of these factors, so that HUMANIST should be isolated from all operations for a period of approximately six months, in order to avoid the possibility that the authorities may suspect him of taking part in intelligence activities. It is believed that this period of inactivity will protect HUMANIST and assist him in the preservation of his cover.

You are authorized to continue his salary for the period during which he will perform no work for you.

It is requested that you turn over all operations which HUMANIST is currently handling to another agent (or agents) as soon as practicable. If you are unable to do this, you may suspend the operations in which HUMANIST has been active, until such time as HUMANIST can again resume his work for us. You are also authorized to pay the agent (or agents) whose work is suspended during this period.

5. If the opportunity should present itself, it would be appreciated if you would question HUMANIST as to the nature of the interrogation which he underwent at the hands of the police, with the object of finding out whether he told them at any time that there was a third individual involved in the technical surveillance.

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

TO : Chief, WHD

FROM : Chief of Station, Habana

DATE 17