Okay, I have reviewed the Tesseract and Google Vision OCR outputs for the provided document. I have combined them, corrected errors, and formatted the text as Markdown below.

---

14-00000

104-10162-10247 | | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNCLASSIFIED
[INTERNAL
USE ONLY]

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)

FROM: P. Kapusta

SUBJECT: CI Suspect

EXTENSION NO.

ROUTING

RECEIVED
DATE

FORWARDED
DATE

OFFICER'S
INITIALS

COMMENTS: (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

1.  C/SE/CI/I If your time permits, this is the second of the two cases I discussed with you (spotted through AZEXPLORE program).

2.  I would be interested in your views as to his possible IS involvement (and whether I may be all wet in feeling he is Soviet dispatched).

3.  Do you see an Illegal Support aspects to this case?

P. Kapusta

FORM 610
3-62

CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET

INTERNAL
USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

14-00000

SECRET

ER/O/AC - 64 - 202

22 October 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Irving AMRON

1.  Subject responded to the AZEXPLORE ad for a position as a Russian language linguist. As was requested of him, he provided the Forms 444, 89, autobiography, and photograph.

2.  The undersigned established contact with Subject by phone on 2 September and arrangements were made to interview him on the following day. He was interviewed in the Undersigned's Philadelphia hotel room on 3 September 1964. The undersigned used the Paul Peters alias and DOD cover.

3.  The following was obtained from AMRON during the interview:

    a. Subject, of Jewish descent, was born in 1917 in the USA. Subject's father, whose original name had been

    Philip AMROMIM

    came to the USA in 1905/06 at the age of approximately 15. Philip AMROMIM's parents stemmed from the GONEL area. At the time of his emigration to the USA, he was accompanied by his mother (his father died sometime prior thereto), and by the following brothers and sisters: Levis, Willy, Abe (who has since died), Moris, Minnie (now married to LATKEN), Pearl, and Max. All of Subject's father's brothers except for Max, are butchers by occupation, including Subject's father. Max graduated from CCNY and became a structural engineer; he has an office on 43rd Street and his firm is called the Amron Associates.

    b. Subject's mother, also of Jewish descent, came to the USA in 1911 (or 1913). Her older sister, Fannie, is married to (fnu) COHEN who is presently retired and living in Florida. Her sister, Ruth, married Max AMRON. Her brother, Hyman HORLIK, who arrived in the USA only in 1922, owns a liquor store in Bayonne, New Jersey. Subject's mother has another sister (fnu) who is presently living in Florida. Subject's mother has one brother who is still living in the USSR.

SECRET

---

14-00000

SECRET

-2-

c. At the time of Subject's birth, Subject's father was employed in the Brooklyn shipyards. However, he changed jobs frequently and was subsequently employed on a farm near New Brunswick, then in a shoe factory as a cutter, then as a butcher, and finally became active in a Jewish cooperative organization. As Subject's father became convinced that the future of the Jews was in Russia under Soviet Communism, in 1931 Subject's family left the USA for the USSR for Birobidzhan where Subject's father worked as an agronomist (he had sometime prior thereto graduated from the National Farm School in Bucks County, Pennsylvania).

d. According to Subject, his family returned to the USA in 1933; the motivating reason therefor was the ill health--actually only severe headaches of Subject's brother, Eugene. Subject alleges that, because they had retained their US citizenship, they experienced no problems either in leaving the USSR or in obtaining permission to return to the USA. Moreover, Subject's father allegedly did not like life in the USSR; however, Subject's mother and sister insisted that they return to the USSR after only a brief stay in the USA.

e. As a result, later in 1933 the entire AMRON family once again returned to the USSR. Again, Subject states that they had no problems in obtaining authorization from the Soviet government for this trip to the USSR. Upon their return to the USSR, they established themselves in Moscow where one Noah LONDON, a friend of the family and a construction engineer, took Subject's father "into his employ". Subject's father worked in this capacity, in the construction industry, from 1933 to 1936. Sometime after the 1936 purges began, Subject's father worked for Komsomolsk, a Moscow "panel board construction" outfit. In 1936 Subject's father also worked for the Paris Commune as a shoemaker. Subject's mother worked during this entire period as chief of a dining establishment in the school of foreign languages in Moscow.

f. Subject began his elementary education at the DeWitt Clinton School in the USA where he studied until 1931; he then studied in the Soviet secondary school in Khabarovsk, Birobidzhan, until 1933. In 1933 he again returned for one semester to the DeWitt Clinton School. Later in 1933 and 1934 he attended the Anglo-American School in Moscow where he completed his 8th grade of school. He then continued his studies from 1933 to 1936 in Public School #327 in the 24th Bauman Rayon. In 1936 he entered the Moscow Avtodorozhniy Institut where he studied on the civil engineering faculty, to be a highway engineer. He graduated in 1941 at which time he was sent to assist

SECRET

---

14-00000

SECRET

in the construction of an airdrome in Minsk, latter to the Polish station of Janow.

g. In 1957 Subject's mother was dismissed from her position and both she and Subject's father began to feel the pressure of the purges. Subject's father, allegedly by appealing to the then President KALININ, succeeded in again acquiring exit visas for them to the USA. Subject, who admits that he had become a "good Communist" by then had gotten "thoroughly steeped" in the Communist philosophy, elected to remain behind in the USSR. An important consideration, he states, was his desire to complete his education which he was certain he would not be able to do in the USA for economic reasons.

h. According to Subject, his father never lost his American citizenship. Subject's mother, however, in 1936 applied for and obtained Soviet citizenship. According to Subject, he actually acquired Soviet citizenship "by default" although he never applied for this in person; he alleges that although he was 18 years of age at the time, he was "granted" Soviet citizenship by virtue of his mother's application for her own citizenship.

i. Subject remained in Moscow prior to World War II. In April 1940 he married

Nina MOISEYIVA

a bookkeeper by profession, who was the step-daughter of the well-known Major SEOGOLEV of the "Soviet Proleteriat Regiment". A son was born to them in June 1941. Although at this time Subject was assigned to the construction of aerodromes to support front line troops, he succeeded in pulling strings and in arranging a "DY trip" to Moscow, ostensibly to visit the Geodetic Institute. En route back from Moscow to the front lines, Subject's train got bombed in Brest Litovsk on 22 June 1941 and as a result he was returned to Moscow on the same train via Baranovichi. According to Subject, he was then assigned to the Moscow Military District, to the Otdel Aerodromnoi Sluzhby, where he was placed in charge of a brigade of engineers, technicians and laborers who were engaged in building dummy air sites for camouflage purposes.

j. In August 1941 Subject states that he was permitted to return to school in order to receive his diploma which was granted him in October 1941. He was then assigned to the 22nd Voyenno-Dorozhniy Otryad which was formed in Mitrov but which was then assigned to Suzdal'. Subject states that he was not inducted into the Soviet military service allegedly because "engineers were needed" and

SECRET

---

14-00000

SECRET

because, as a member of the MD, this was considered as equivalent to military service. Nonetheless, in response to my query, Subject admitted that this was unusual as his activities were a kind which were performed by old women particularly since during this period, from October 1941 to September 1942, all able-bodied Soviet males were drafted into the Soviet army. During this period Subject lived in comparative ease, being assigned to Suzdal and Klin, and other towns. According to Subject, he wore an MD uniform but wore no insignia. He admitted that "favored treatment" was bestowed upon him and his family when the MD assisted him in evacuating his first wife and son from Moscow in August 1941 to beyond the Urals. (His son by his first wife reportedly died on 11 October 1943 of diabetes.)

k. In September 1942, Subject received an appointment to the Moscow 2nd Military Infantry Institute from which he graduated in June 1943 and from which he was given the grade of Jr. Lt. in the Soviet Infantry. In response to my query, Subject again admitted that this appointment was highly unusual as his background did not lend itself to this, as appointments were made out of the various military branches, and as this implied that, as a foreigner (American), he was fully and completely trusted by the Soviet punitive organs who had cleared him both for this training and the institute and for promotion to officer status in the Soviet Army.

l. Initially he was sent to Alatyr on the Volga, then to Orel where he was assigned to the front lines in August 1943. He was given a platoon of infantry troops in the 415th Infantry Division of the Soviet Central Front. However, in October 1943 he was wounded; he was hit in the left forehead by a German bullet. He was operated on in a field hospital and then transferred to a Moscow hospital after he had recovered sufficiently. He was reclassified after his recovery and found suitable to continue in military service with the limitation that he should not serve on the front lines (goden vtoroi stepeni).

m. Because the wound failed to heal completely (he has a very obvious scar, with approximately a 1" depression, on his forehead), he "asked" to be assigned to a warmer climate. The Soviet authorities, he states, complied and in January 1944 dispatched him to Tbilisi where he was placed in a special officer's camp; he was hospitalized again, had osteomyelitis complications, and ultimately discharged from the Soviet military forces. However, Subject provided several contradictory stories as to the date of discharge which at various times he indicated occurred in May 1944, then in July 1944, and even in August 1944. (NOTE: This aspect of Subject's story bothered him as it was obvious to the undersigned that Subject had somewhere become confused in this aspect of his background.)

SECRET

---

14-00000

SECRET

-5-

n. Upon his discharge, he was returned to the Moscow area where he was placed in a rest home (although Subject admitted that there really existed no need for this as he had recovered already prior to his discharge). In continuing his narration, Subject indicated that the rest of his story "sounds very strange and unbelievable" but then averred that it was true. He states that, strange as it appears and despite the shortage of Soviet men at the time (1944) he could not "find" himself a job. He went to the MVD which did offer him a job in Veliki Luki on the highways with the SoyuzDorogProyekt; however, he was not given the job by the officials responsible for this. As a result, he appealed directly to the Minister of the MVD who "tried to intercede" in Subject's behalf. Allegedly after he was given a full physical examination, he was told that he could not be assigned to the highway units for reasons which were not spelled out to Subject.

o. Subject then "sought out" work with the Nauchniy Sovet with no luck. He ultimately obtained a job with the Moscow Soviet in the Moscow Soviet Senior Library (sic). In November 1944, at a salary of 900 rubles, Subject began working in the field of "information on municipal works-highway construction, architecture, sanitation, etc." His immediate supervisor was (fnu) LIESHEV, the head of information department of the Hydro-Energy Project. Subject admitted, in reply to the undersigned's query, that his work was "unusual" for several reasons. First, he was paid a salary which was unusually high and out of line with his qualifications. Secondly, though paid a salary for a full-time job and position, he actually worked on a part-time basis and was able to come and go almost as he wished. His work also included working on abstracts and translations from English to Russian, primarily in the field of dams, dam construction, and hydraulics.

p. In June 1949 Subject states that he was dismissed from the foregoing position after he was given the explanation that the flow of literature from the USA, which Subject was translating, had decreased. In actual fact, Subject states, he was being "purged" because he was a Jew. He then found a job as a laboratory assistant in a concrete plant where he worked from July 1949 to 23 February 1950. Because he did not like that job, Subject states he wrote to Stalin personally as a result of which, within less than 4 weeks, he was offered 4-5 different jobs. The positions were offered to him by the Moscow Committee of the CP to whom "Stalin had forwarded the letter". In reply to my query, Subject admitted that he was not concerned that, by writing to Stalin, he would come to the attention of the Soviet punitive organs, MVD/MGB, which would undertake to investigate his case. Accordingly, on 1 April 1950 Subject was given a job as an

SECRET

---

14-00000

SECRET

-6-

engineer with the Bauman District Road Department where he worked until February 1955.

q. After he lost his job in 1949 with the Moscow Soviet, he states that his relations with his wife went from bad to worse and ultimately culminated first in a separation and latter in a divorce in 1950. In the meantime, he was already living with

Eugenia VOLSOVA

an employee and a teacher of forensic medicine of the Moscow Medical Institute where she was studying for her PhD and where she was working in org as a pathologist. He married her either in 1950 or 1951. However, within less than one month of their marriage, Subject divorced her as he found out that she was a "bad person" and because he "had fallen blindly in love" with her. (NOTE: This aspect of Subject's story disturbed him very much. He was unsure of himself, was vague on dates, details, specifics, names, etc. It was again obvious that Subject was less than frank and open about this aspect of his background. His narration did not sound convincing to Subject himself when he began talking about "falling blindly in Love", etc.) In 1952 he began living with another woman,

Rose MINKINA,

whom he married only in late 1954 when their son was already well on the way. MINKINA's parents and family were very strongly opposed to the marriage because the parents held responsible party positions and because MINKINA's brother held a sensitive position with the Soviet electronics and aviation industries. A son was born to Subject and MINKINA on 5 April 1955.

r. In ca 1954 (dates vague) Subject entered the Institute of Marxism-Leninism and continued his studies for three or more years. Though he registered for the evening sessions, he devoted a good portion of his days to study. As a result, Subject again admitted to the undersigned that he actually was in a unique position of being able to do almost as he "wished and desired" although ostensibly he was a full-time employee of the Bauman District Road Department. While a student at the Institute of Marxist-Leninism, Subject and his wife began submitting applications for a visa to visit Subject's parents in the USA. In actual fact, Subject states, his real purpose in applying for the visa was to "defect" upon his arrival in the USA. In February 1955 Subject states that he was "fired" from his job with the Bauman District because of "political unreliability". However, Subject admitted to the undersigned that the real reason for dismissal

SECRET

---

14-00000

SECRET

-7-

must have been otherwise as, had he actually been dismissed for "political unreliability", he would not have been able to continue his studies at the Institute of Marxism-Leninism.

s. Because Subject had communicated to his father, using "hidden phrases" in their letters to each other, about his wish to leave the USSR, Subject's father arrived in the USSR in 1957 in order, Subject states, "to establish at first hand for himself" whether Subject really wished to "defect to the USA". Subject's father remained in the USSR for a total of 10 days. As a result of his father's visit, Subject changed his tactics and began to submit applications for "immigration" to the USA. As earlier, these applications were rejected; however, Subject states that he continued resubmitting them several times each year.

t. After he left the Bauman District place of employment in February 1955, Subject found work as a "free lance translator for the Moscow Torgovaya Palata. He earned ca 1100 rubles per month translating English language material related to the iron and steel plant which was being designed by the USSR for erection in India. In January 1956 Subject found work as chief of the translations bureau of the Nauchno-Issledovatel'skiy Institut Ministerstva MashinoStroyeniya; his functions consisted primarily of supervising the translation of English language manuals on technical equipment. Again, Subject admitted that his work was "unusual" as, in actual fact, he spent 1-2 days at work, spent the rest of his time at home, and devoted most of his time and energy to the studies at the Institute of Marxism-Leninism. His salary continued at 1100 rubles per month.

u. In August 1958 his work came to an end. Generally he provided a contradictory account in this respect. Initially he stated that the position had been eliminated but then changed this story to state that he resigned in August 1958 as he would have had to begin devoting his full time to the work. In any case, his resignation generally coincided with his completion of studies at the Institute of Marxism-Leninism. Thereafter, and until his immigration to the USA in 1962, Subject held no full time job. Nonetheless, he states that he succeeded in earning no less than about 1100 rubles per month by working as a free lance translator for the Torgovaya Palata of Moscow. He turned over to the undersigned a sample of his translation efforts--see the attached book. In response to my query, Subject admitted that his work again was of such a nature that he was a free agent, came and went as he pleased, and generally was responsible to no one. Apparently in order to

SECRET

---

14-00000

SECRET

-8-

forestall any further discussions in this regard, Subject then stated that "if you are thinking that I could have worked for the KGB at this time, then you are right because I had the time to do anything including engaging in intelligence activities." However, Subject then proceeded to deny that he had then or at any time, had any relationship with the KGB (or its predecessor organizations).

v. In July 1962 Subject's mother and father came to Moscow, this specifically for the purpose of getting Subject to return to the USA. They stayed in Moscow the entire time they wrote letters to REPUSEVSKY, to Nina PASHCHEVA, to ADZHUBEI, to the Supreme Soviet, to the K, and to other Soviet establishments in order to get Subject and his son permission for emigration to the USA. (Subject's wife, MINKINA, had died in 1961.) In August 1962, while vacationing in Sochi Subject was sought out by the local Inturist office and apprised by the local militia office that, "in view of your father's strong appeals", the USSR had granted Subject and his son permission to leave the USSR. Upon his return to Moscow, Subject proceeded to the American Embassy where he was advised that he had not been granted an exit visa by the Soviets. As a result, Subject applied for immigration to the USA twice, once in the capacity of a Soviet citizen using his Soviet passport, and the second time in the capacity of an "American citizen".

w. In September 1962 the application to travel to the USA as an "immigrant" was approved for him and his son. Therefore, without waiting to receive approval to travel under his claim of being an "American citizen", Subject left the USSR and entered the USA on his Soviet passport together with his son on 24 September 1962 via Idlewild. Upon his arrival in the USA, Subject immediately undertook action to have his "American citizenship" restored. This was initially denied as he had admitted that he had voted in the Soviet national elections. However, he then retained an attorney who appealed the case; the original decision was then reversed and both Subject and his son had their US citizenship restored to them in the summer of 1963, the reversal was based on Subject's claim that he had had no choice and was, therefore, compelled to vote in the USSR national elections.

x. Upon his arrival in the USA, Subject immediately applied for a position with the UN, however, he was rejected as he was "stateless" at the time. He then accepted a position with Stelling, Lord-Wood, and Van Suetendals, 36th Street, working on site-planning. His supervisor, one Frank McGowan, then recommended Subject to the

SECRET

---

14-00000

SECRET

Blauvelt engineering firm for whom he worked from January 1963 through July 1964. In 1964 Subject found work with Harold J. SELDIN, 60 Broad Street, Red Bank, New Jersey, as an engineer working on the planning and designing of sub-divisions, grading, construction developments, etc. His immediate supervisor is the township engineer of Marlboro Township, New Jersey. His present salary is $700.00 per month.

y. In April 1963 Subject married

Bella MINCBERG nee MILSTEIN

a Polish Jew who had come to the USA from Poland in 1949. She has been divorced from her prior marriage(s). Subject and his son now live in the home of his present wife.

4. Comments and Assessment:

a. Subject speaks native English and passes for a middle class American. His Russian is likewise native.

b. According to Subject, his objective in life now is to work for the US Government. He states that he has submitted Forms 57 to a number of the US Government agencies (he did not elaborate). In applying for the position under AXXPICER, Subject asked for $10,000.00 per annum which is his asking price for a position with the US Government.

c. According to Subject, his present position is excellent with great potential for going into partnership as soon as he becomes a licensed engineer. However, he states that he is not interested in making money (despite his request for a $10,000.00 salary) but in "fighting Communism" as an employee of the US Government.

d. Subject admitted that he was a firm and strong believer of Communism which, incidentally, was the reason why he remained behind in the USSR when his parents returned to the USA in 1937. He states that he continued to be a firm believer of Communism until approximately 1958/59 when he became "disenchanted with Communism". Subject denies that he was a member of the Komsomol or that he had to join the Communist Party, this despite the fact that he became an officer of the Soviet Army and despite the fact that he was accepted to study at the Institute of Marxism-Leninism. Despite his alleged "disenchantment" with Communism, Subject spoke in flattering terms about life in the USSR, about the "democracy", about equal opportunities, about the excellent "educational system", et cetera. Subject admitted that

SECRET

---

14-00000

SECRET

-10-

he had led almost a "charming existence" in the USSR and that neither life in the USSR nor the Soviet authorities mistreated him.

e. According to Subject, he was never arrested in the Soviet Union.

f. In reply to my query, Subject indicated that in 1958 the KGB tried to co-opt him into reporting a fellow student at the Institute of Marxism-Leninism. However, Subject states that he rejected the pitch. In reply to various queries which were posed to him about the fellow-student (name allegedly now forgotten), Subject states that he did render an unfavorable report on the person. Despite this, the particular Soviet was ultimately assigned abroad as an interpreter. Subject later heard that the Soviet worked and traveled both Japan and Italy.

g. In reply to a general query about life in the USSR, Subject indicated that life in the USSR has made him into "an accomplished prevaricator".

h. Subject was less than fluent in relating the story of his life to the undersigned. He made mistakes frequently, he contradicted himself, he altered dates to accommodate other aspects of his activities to correspond with that he had mentioned earlier, etc. Also, Subject repeatedly tried to digress from relating his story into presenting his views of life; it was a chore to keep him on substantive matters relating to his own background.

i. Subject's brother, Eugene, is now employed as an engineer of the Freehold Township, New Jersey. Additionally, he has a private office in Rockland, New Jersey, called the Civil Engineer Associates.

j. Subject's account of how he acquired Soviet citizenship--see above--is a very weak item in Subject's story. He will have us believe that he got Soviet citizenship "by default" as a result of his mother's application for Soviet citizenship for herself. He himself admitted to the undersigned that this is illogical as his brother, Eugene, whose status was no different from Subject's, never acquired Soviet citizenship "by default" though Subject did allegedly without any action whatever on his own part. Moreover, Subject admitted that he was legally of age (18) by this time and no longer a dependent as a result of which he would have had to apply for a Soviet passport and for Soviet citizenship of his own free volition rather than through his mother.

SECRET

---

14-00000

SECRET

-11-

k. Subject is aware that the story of his "immigration" to the USA is also weak. He tried to explain this away by stating that he "got out by mistake", that he was permitted to go to hide the Soviet shame surrounding the Cuban crisis", that "someone had committed an error", etc. He admitted that there exists no other explanation as to why the Soviet government would have permitted him to leave the USSR as, in the eyes of the Soviet government, he was a full fledged and responsible Soviet citizen who had no genuine or legitimate claim to American citizenship. As a result, Subject is unusually sensitive to this topic.

5. CONCLUSION:

a. In the opinion of the undersigned, Subject should not be considered for either ABSCREEK or AZEXPLORE despite the fact both his English and Russian are native.

b. On the basis of the interview, the undersigned feels that Subject is less than frank and that he is prevaricating. Moreover, there exist innumerable items in Subject's tale which are indicative both that he worked as a recruited agent of the KGB (and its predecessor organizations) in the USSR and that he left the USSR only through and with the intercession of the KGB.

6. It should be understood that because of the unique and sensitive cover used by the undersigned, no attempt was made to resolve the various contradictions, to challenge Subject on any of his statements, or to pursue certain points of their logical conclusion. The foregoing was obtained in the form of an interview and no real attempt could be made, given the cover, to delve more deeply into the suspicious aspects of Subject's background.

PETER P. KAPUSTA
Chief, SR/O/KC

SECRET

---

14-00000

DO NOT USE T-5 SPACE
FILLED BY

PERSONAL HISTORY STATEMENT

INSTRUCTIONS

DATE (Fill in)
July 5, 1964

1.  Answer all questions completely or check appropriate box. If question is not applicable write "NA". Write "Unknown" only if you do not know the answer and it cannot be obtained from personal records. Use blank space at end of form for extra details on any question for which you have insufficient space.

2.  Type, print or write carefully; illegible or incomplete forms will not receive consideration.

3.  Consider your answers carefully. Your signature at the end of this form will certify to their correctness. Careful completion of all applicable questions will permit review of your qualifications to the best advantage.

SECTION I GENERAL PERSONAL AND PHYSICAL DATA

1.  NAME (Last-First-Middle)

    AMRON IRVING

2.  AGE 3. SEX

    46 MALE FEMALE

3.  HEIGHT 5. WEIGHT 6. COLOR OF EYES 7. COLOR OF HAIR 8. TYPE COMPLEXION 9. TYPE BUILD

    6'0" 195 blue brown light heavy

4.  SCARS (Location) Deep scar (1"x2") on left part of forehead

5.  OTHER DISTINGUISHING PHYSICAL FEATURES

6.  CURRENT ADDRESS (Street, City, Zone, State and Country) AND PHONE NO.

    260 Marshall Court, Long Branch, New Jersey Tel: 201-222-5592

7.  PERMANENT ADDRESS (Street, City, Zone, State and Country)

    260 Marshall Court, Long Branch, New Jersey

8.  CURRENT PHONE NO. & EXT. 15. OFFICE PHONE NO. & EXT. 16. LEGAL RESIDENCE (State, Territory or Country)

    201-222-5592 LE2-0700 New Jersey

9.  ALIASES 18. OTHER NAMES YOU HAVE USED

    None None

10. INDICATE CIRCUMSTANCES (Including Length of Time) UNDER WHICH YOU HAVE EVER USED THESE NAMES. IF LEGAL CHANGE GIVE PARTICULARS (and by what authority).

    NA

SECTION II POSITION DATA

1.  INDICATE THE WORK OR POSITION FOR WHICH YOU ARE APPLYING 2. INDICATE THE LOWEST ANNUAL ENTRANCE SALARY YOU WILL ACCEPT (To be considered do not put lower)

    Russian language linguist $10,000 annually

2.  DATE AVAILABLE FOR EMPLOYMENT

    2 weeks after notification

3.  INDICATE YOUR WILLINGNESS TO TRAVEL

    OCCASIONALLY FREQUENTLY CONSTANTLY OTHER:

4.  INDICATE YOUR WILLINGNESS TO ACCEPT ASSIGNMENT IN THE FOLLOWING LOCATIONS (Check appropriate boxes)

    WASHINGTON AREA ANYWHERE IN U.S. CONTINENTAL U.S. CERTAIN LOCATIONS ONLY (Specify):

5.  STATE ANY RESERVATIONS YOU WOULD PLACE ON ASSIGNMENTS OUTSIDE THE WASHINGTON AREA:

    Possibility of schooling for children

FORM 444 USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

---

14-00000

SECTION III CITIZENSHIP

1.  DATE OF BIRTH 2. PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State, Country) 3. PRESENT CITIZENSHIP (Country)

    Dec. 4, 1917 Brooklyn, New York U. S. A.

2.  CITIZENSHIP ACQUIRED BY 5. DATE NATURALIZED 6. NATURALIZATION CERTIFICATE NO.

    BIRTH MOTHER (Specify): NA NA

3.  COUNTRY ISSUING NATURALIZATION CERTIFICATE 8. ISSUED AT (City, State, Country)

    NA NA

4.  HAVE YOU HELD PREVIOUS NATIONALITY? 10. IF YES, GIVE NAME OF COUNTRY

    YES NO U. S. S. R.

5.  GIVE PARTICULARS CONCERNING PREVIOUS NATIONALITY. He I was living in Moscow, the Russian government considered me as a Russian citizen, even though I had never handed in an application for Soviet citizenship. Due to this, and because I was in a rush to leave the country, I arrived xxxx on a Soviet foreign passport. In the U. S. Embassy in Moscow I filled in simultaneously two applications for entry into the U. S. A.: one as an immigrant and the other as an American citizen. I received a Nonquota K-2(1) visa dated September 10, 1962. After arrival the Board of Appeals of the Dept. of State reinstated my native-born citizenship.

6.  HAVE YOU TAKEN STEPS TO CHANGE PRESENT CITIZENSHIP? 13. GIVE PARTICULARS

    YES NO

7.  IF YOU HAVE APPLIED FOR U.S. CITIZENSHIP, WHAT IS PRESENT STATUS OF YOUR APPLICATION (First Papers, Etc.)

    NA

8.  DATE OF ARRIVAL IN US 16. PORT OF ENTRY 17. NAME OF WHAT COUNTRY

    Sept. 26, 1962 N. Y. U. S. S. R.

9.  LAST US. VISA ING. (Type Place of Issue) 19. DATE VISA ISSUED

    K-2(1), Moscow, U. S. S. R. Sept. 10, 1962

SECTION IV EDUCATION

1.  CHECK (X) HIGHEST LEVEL OF EDUCATION ATTAINED

    LESS THAN HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATE OVER TWO YEARS OF COLLEGE - NO DEGREE

    HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATE BACHELOR'S DEGREE

    BUSINESS OR COMMERCIAL SCHOOL GRADUATE GRADUATE STUDY LEADING TO HIGHER DEGREE

    TWO YEARS COLLEGE OR LESS DOCTOR'S DEGREE

    ELEMENTARY SCHOOL

2.  NAME OF ELEMENTARY SCHOOL 2. ADDRESS (City, State, Country)

    P. S. 32 Bronx, N. Y.

3.  DATES ATTENDED (From-and-To) 4. GRADUATE

    1928 to 1932 YES NO

4.  NAME OF HIGH SCHOOL 2. ADDRESS (City, State, Country)

    No. 327 Moscow, U. S. S. R.

5.  DATES ATTENDED (From-and-To) 4. GRADUATE

    1934 to 1936 YES NO

6.  NAME OF HIGH SCHOOL 2. ADDRESS (City, State, Country)

    NA NA

7.  DATES ATTENDED (From-and-To) 4. GRADUATE

    NA YES NO

8.  COLLEGE OR UNIVERSITY STUDY

    NAME AND LOCATION OF COLLEGE OR UNIVERSITY SUBJECT DATES ATTENDED DEGREE DATE MAJOR MINOR HOURS

    Moscow Automobile & Highway Institute Engineering 1936 1941 BS 1941

    Moscow, U. S. S. R.

SECTION IV CONTINUED TO PAGE 3

---

14-00000

SECTION IV CONTINUED FROM PAGE 2

5.  IF A GRADUATE DEGREE HAS BEEN NOTED IN ITEM 4 WHICH REQUIRED SUBMISSION OF A WRITTEN THESIS, INDICATE THE TITLE OF THE THESIS AND BRIEFLY DESCRIBE ITS CONTENT.

    NA

6.  TRADE, COMMERCIAL AND SPECIALIZED SCHOOLS

    NAME AND ADDRESS OF SCHOOL FROM TO MONTHS STUDY OR SPECIALIZATION

    Evening University of 1952 1954 Political Sciences

    Marxism-Leninism

    Moscow, U. S. S. R.

7.  MILITARY TRAINING (FULL