14-00000
104-10222-10001
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET
SECURITY INFORMATION
CT PERSONNEL
OF PERSONNEL
RETURN FILE TO SE-US NO
MASTROCOLA, Bruce G.
consolidated

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000
CONTRACT INFORMATION AND CHECK LIST
(INSTRUCTIONS: Complete all items. If items are not applicable forward original and one copy. See instructions for preparation of contract)

SECTION I
1. NAME (Last, first, middle)
MASTROCOLA, Bruce G.
4. HEADQUARTERS SUPPORT (Inventory)
9-3500-10-200

2. PRECEDING CASE OFFICER
I. Cobb
5. PRESENTLY ENGAGED OR HAS ENGAGED BY CIA OR ITS ALLIED
ACTIVITIES IN SOME CAPACITY
☑ YES ☐ NO (If yes, describe and
3. TELEPHONE EXTENSION
2056
6. DIVISION
WH/111/Carib
7. DATE
3 June 59
8. SLOT NO.

His business firm furnished cover for a CIA agent.
Personal friend and confidant of Der.

9. PREVIOUS CIA PSEUDONYM OR ALIASES
None
10. SECURITY CLEARANCE (Type and date)
PCA
C-11118, 28 May 59
11. CONTRACT IS TO BE KEPT IN STERILE FORM I.E., "U.S.
GOVERNMENT" ☐

12. INDIVIDUAL WILL WORK UNDER "CONTROLLED CONDITIONS," REGULAR OFFICE
HOURS AWAY FROM SUBJECT'S HOME AND PERFORMED UNDER THE SUPERVISION OF
A STAFF EMPLOYEE OR STAFF AGENT
SECTION II - PERSONAL DATA
11. CITIZENSHIP
USA
12. IF NOT U.S. CITIZEN, INDIVIDUAL IS A PERMANENT
RESIDENT ALIEN ☐ YES ☑ NO
15. LEGAL RESIDENCE (City and state or country)
New York, N.Y.
17. MARITAL STATUS (Check as appropriate)
☐ SINGLE ☐ MARRIED ☐ DIVORCED ☐ ANNULLED ☐ SEPARATED
18. NUMBER OF DEPENDENTS (Not including individual)
RELATIONSHIP
wife 1
daughter 1
(no others known)
SECTION III - U.S. MILITARY STATUS
20. RESERVE
Not Known
23. BRANCH OF SERVICE
21. VETERAN
Not Known
24. RANK OR GRADE
10. PROPOSED CATEGORY (Contract agent, contract employee, etc.)
Contract Agent
13. AGE
46
14. DATE OF BIRTH (month, day, year)
8 September 1912
16. CURRENT RESIDENCE (City and state or country)
New York, N.Y.
19. INDIVIDUAL IS RELATED TO A STAFF EMPLOYEE, STAFF AGENT OR
AN INDIVIDUAL CURRENTLY WORKING FOR THE AGENCY IN SOME
CAPACITY ☐ YES ☑ NO
RELATIONSHIP
22. IF RETIRED, INDICATE CATEGORY (Longevity, combat disability, service disability non-combat)
25. DRAFT ELIGIBLE ☐ YES ☑ NO
26. DRAFT DEFERMENT OBTAINED BY CIA ☐ YES ☐ NO

SECTION IV - COMPENSATION
27. BASIC SALARY
$50.00 per day
(not to exceed $265 per wk.)
28. POST DIFFERENTIAL
NA
29. OVERSEAS ALLOWANCE
NA

SECTION V - ALLOWANCES (NORMALLY GRANTED ONLY TO RESIDENTS OF THE UNITED STATES)
31. QUARTERS
NA
32. POST
NA
33. OTHER
NA
34. COVER (Breakdown, if any)
NA

SECTION VI - DOMESTIC OPERATIONAL TRAVEL
35. TYPES 36. WITH DEPENDENTS
☐ HOUSEHOLD EFFECTS TO BE SHIPPED ☐ YES ☑ NO
☐ PERSONAL VEHICLE TO BE SHIPPED ☐ YES ☑ NO
☐ FOREIGN OPERATIONAL TRAVEL
39. TRANSPORT VEHICLE TO BE USED FOR
OPERATIONAL TRAVEL

37. IF WITH DEPENDENTS STATE RELATIONSHIP, CITIZENSHIP, AGE AND DATE OF BIRTH
41. PAYMENT AND ACCOUNTABILITY WILL BE IN CONFORMANCE WITH
REGULATIONS
☐ COVER POLICIES AND PROCEDURES

SECTION VII - OPERATIONAL EXPENSES
42. PURCHASE OF INFORMATION ☑ YES
43. ENTERTAINMENT ☑ YES
44. OTHER
Operational Expenses
Representation Allowances
45. PAYMENT AND ACCOUNTABILITY WILL BE IN CONFORMANCE WITH
COVER POLICIES AND PROCEDURES

SECRET

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000
SECRET
CONTRACT INFORMATION AND CHECK LIST
(CONTINUED)
NOTE: SEE INSTRUCTIONS ON FIRST SHEET.

46. PRECEDING CASE OFFICER
I. Cobb
48. OTHER BENEFITS (See Part IIV of Confidential Fund Regulations or
categories of contract personnel.
EXTENSION
2056
DIVISION
WH/111/Carib
DATE
5 June 59
regulations. If medical benefits are requested, see R. 15-230 of
homelite Applicable to various regulations.)

SECTION IX
47. STATUS
(Check)
☐ PROPRIETARY
☐ SUBSIDIARY
☐ CULTURAL
☐ EDUCATIONAL
48. TYPE
(Check)
☑ COVER ACTIVITY
☐ COMPLETE
☐ PARTIAL
49. IF COVER PAYMENTS ARE CONTEMPLATED, THEY WILL BE EFFECTED ON BURSARLE BASIS
☐ Tourist
☐ OTHER
NA

SECTION X
50. OFFSET OF INCOME AND OTHER EMOLUMENTS DERIVED FROM COVER ACTIVITIES
(If less than total, justify in separate memo attached hereto.)
OFFSET OF INCOME
SECTION XI - TERM
51. DURATION
☐ DAYS ☐ MONTHS ☑ YEAR(S)
52. EFFECTIVE DATE
5 June 59
53. TERMINATION NOTICE (Number of days)
30

SECTION XII - FUNCTION
56. PRIMARY FUNCTION (FI, PP, other)
PP

SECTION XIII - DUTIES
57. FORFEITURE OF RETURN TRAVEL FOR RESIGNATION PRIOR TO CONTRACT TERMINATION
☑ YES

58. GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES TO BE PERFORMED
High level contacts with Cuban Government officials for political action purposes
(subsidiary FI-type reporting also expected from Subject).

SECTION XIV - QUALIFICATIONS
59. EXPERIENCE
Imminent authority on government, business, taxes, foreign trade.
High-level contacts in Cuban Government.

60. EDUCATION
Unknown
Check Highest
(Level
Level Attained)
☐ GRADE SCHOOL
☐ SCHOOL GRADUATE
☐ BUSINESS SCHOOL GRADUATE
☐ COLLEGE
☐ GRADUATE
61. LANGUAGE COMPETENCY
Unknown
(Check Appropriate
Degree Competency)
☐ SPEAK
☐ WRITE
☐ READ
LANGUAGE
(No degree)
62. AREA KNOWLEDGE
Frequent travel into target area.
63. PRIOR EMPLOYMENT
Executive secretary of a research institute (current employment)
Member of International Rescue Committee

SECTION XV - ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
64. ADDITIONAL OR UNUSUAL REQUIREMENTS, JUSTIFICATIONS OR EXPLANATIONS (Use other side if necessary)

APPROVAL
DATE
TYPED NAME SIGNATURE OF DIVISION OFFICER
R. N. DAHLGREN, C/WH/III

DATE
TYPED NAME SIGNATURE OF SENIOR STAFF OFFICER
P. B. ARNESON, C/WH/Support
SECRET

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000
SECRET

Mr. Bruce G. Mastrocola

Dear Mr. Mastrocola:

The United States Government, as represented by the Contracting Officer, hereby contracts with you as an independent contractor for the submission of certain information and related services of a confidential nature under the following terms and conditions:

1. Compensation. In full consideration for the submission of such information and services you will be paid a fee of $50 for any day or fraction thereof during which you are utilized under this agreement, not to exceed $265 per week. Payments will be made as directed by you in writing in a manner acceptable to the Government. No taxes will be withheld therefrom, but it will be your responsibility to report such income under existing Federal income tax laws and regulations. An appropriate Form 1099 will be furnished by the Government in furtherance of its tax reporting requirement.

2. Travel. You will be advanced or reimbursed funds for necessary expenses incurred in connection with such operational travel as may be directed or authorized by the Government. This may include per diem in lieu of subsistence in the course of such travel and while on temporary duty away from your domestic permanent post of assignment. Payment and accounting for such expenses will be in substantial conformance with applicable Government regulations.

3. Operational Expenses. You will be advanced or reimbursed funds for necessary operational expenses including, but not limited to, entertainment and the purchase of information, as specifically approved by the Government. Such funds will be subject to accounting in substantial compliance with Government regulations.

4. Execution of Documents. If, in the performance of services under this contract, you assume the custody of Government funds or take title of record to property of any nature whatsoever and wherever situate, which property has in fact been purchased with monies of the U. S. Government, you hereby recognize and acknowledge the existence of a trust relationship, either express or constructive, and you agree to execute whatever documents may be required by the Government to evidence this relationship.

5. Status. You are not an employee of the United States Government under this agreement and are not entitled to any benefits normally incident to an employee status.

6. Secrecy. You will be required to keep forever secret this contract and all information which you may obtain by reason hereof (unless released in writing by the Government from such obligation), with full knowledge that violation of such secrecy may subject you to criminal prosecution under the Espionage Laws, dated 25 June 1948, as amended, and other applicable laws and regulations.

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000
SECRET

7. Instructions. Instructions received by you from the Government in briefing or otherwise are a part of this contract and are incorporated herein, provided that such instructions are not inconsistent with the terms hereof.

8. Unauthorized Commitments. No promises or commitments pertaining to rights, privileges or benefits other than those expressly stipulated in writing in this agreement or any amendment thereto shall be binding on the Government.

9. Term. This contract is effective as of 5 June 1959, and shall continue thereafter for a period of one (1) year unless sooner terminated either:
(a) By thirty (30) days' actual notice by either party hereto, or
(b) Without prior notice by the Government, in the event of a breach of this contract by your violation of the security provisions hereof or by your otherwise rendering yourself unavailable for acceptable service.

Subject to the availability of appropriations, this agreement may be extended upon notice from the Government. Termination of this agreement will not release you from the obligations of any security oath you may be required to take.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
BY
Contracting Officer

ACCEPTED:
Bruce G. Mastrocola

WITNESS:

APPROVED:
C. A.
C. O.
Tim Cobb 12056
