```markdown
14-00000

104-10164-10112

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CHARLES, CLEMARD JOSEPH. BANKER,
PORT-AU-PRINCE.

OFFICIAL USE ONLY CIA-P-162573

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000
WARNING!
NOT FOR RELEASE
This photograph may be protected by Copyright
and related laws and is therefore limited to
OFFICIAL USE ONLY. Its use or publication
in unclassified documents may require a release
which can be granted only by the Copyright
owner. Users are warned that unauthorized use
of this material may subject the user to per-
sonal liability and jeopardise the source of this
63-4

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000
S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

BIOGRAPHIC SUPPLEMENT

HAITI

Clémard Joseph CHARLES

President and General Manager
of the Commercial Bank of Haiti

Clémard Joseph Charles, a man who has
insisted on numerous occasions that he will
be the next President of Haiti, has been
chronically involved, directly or indirect-
ly, in rumored plots against President
Duvalier which have never materialized.
In May 1963 Charles is reported to have
passed word to US officials through an
American journalist that he was in a
position to head a provisional govern-
ment after President Duvalier had been
CENTRAL REFERENCE
SERVICE
INTELLIGENCE
AGENCY
GROUP
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification
removed from power. In subsequent years, particularly in 1966
and 1967, Charles approached US officials both in New York
and Port-au-Prince with the apparent intention of enlisting
US support for a group of conspirators he claimed to lead
which was determined to topple Duvalier from power. None
of these plots materialized, however, and there was never
any evidence to suggest that any serious plans had been made.

In January 1969 Charles had a lengthy conversation with
an official of the US Embassy in which the former candid-
ate discussed his grievances against Duvalier and the plot he
claimed to be instigating to overthrow Duvalier and replace
him as President of Haiti. Charles stated that the group
supporting his efforts consisted primarily of soldiers, a
few militiamen, some professional men, priests, students,
and assorted other well-placed individuals. He claimed
that representatives of these groups had already agreed on
the essential elements of a constitution which would in-
clude a bicameral legislature and an operative political
party structure. The reporting official cautioned, how-
ever, that Charles' remarks should be viewed in light of
his previous history of relating such conspiracies.

When President Duvalier was reported to be seriously
ill in mid-May 1969, Charles' name was again mentioned in
connection with myriad rumors of imminent government take-
overs. According to a reliable source, a military junta
was formed to take power in the event of the death of
Duvalier. The junta purportedly included Gen. Gérard
Constant, Col. Octave Cayard, Col. Kuener Blain, Col.
Roger St. Albin, and Col. René Prosper. Charles was said

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000
S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

Clémard Joseph CHARLES (cont.)

to be aware of the identities of these men. Furthermore,
according to an official of the US Embassy, at one time
it appeared that Charles had originated the idea of the
junta, hoping to utilize it eventually to launch his own
candidacy for the Presidency. Subsequently, however,
Charles changed his statements about being "the next
President" to being "a future President," and he seemed
to be placing some distance between himself and the pro-
posed junta.

During Charles' aforementioned conversation with an
Embassy official in January 1969, he revealed other facets
of his personality as well as his penchant for plotting.
He conceives of his role in Haiti in grandiose, almost
messianic terms. He said that he had invested $2 million
in Haiti and had done more for the development of the
country than any other indigenous Haitian. He claimed,
for example, that the workers in the Artibonite were
passionate admirers of his because his tannery in Port
Sondé (now closed) provided needed jobs. He also claimed
the special allegiance of the chauffeur guides, the only
truly organized workers in the country, because when he
directed the compulsory Government Motor Vehicle Insurance
program, legitimate chauffeur claims were paid. He im-
plied that such claims were no longer honored.

Discussing the internal problems of his country,
Charles stressed the need for immediate steps to prevent
the total destruction of Haiti's land and resources, to
control the spiraling population growth, and to rejuvenate
the country's secondary cities. To achieve these goals
before current trends become irreversible, Charles believes
that it is essential to pursue relations with the United
States that would be conducive to massive assistance and
investment. In this respect he insists that Duvalier
has been grossly unrealistic and has done Haiti great
damage by his refusal to recognize the role the United
States must play in Haitian affairs.

DR:eab
May 1969

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000
CONTROLLED DISSEM C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
NO-DISSEM ABROAD
COUNTRY Haiti REPORT NO. 00- B 321/36801-68
SUBJECT Clemard Charles Statement That He Will DATE DISTR 28 DEC 1963
Attempt Duvalier Overthrow Feb-Mar 69/ NO PAGES 2
Charles Comment On No. 2 and 3 Men In REFERENCES C-DC8-54950
Duvalier Regime; Confirmation by UK (360)
Consul General/Weak Condition of Banque
Commerciale d'Haiti/Background On Various
Personalities and Their Present Location
DATE OF INFO. Dec 68
PLACE & DATE ACQ. Haiti/Dec 68
SOURCE THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION
US citizen; independent businessman who has visited in Haiti for extended
periods during the past four years. He is currently attempting to promote
private financial backing for installation of generating equipment at the
Barrage de Peligre dam and for educational television in Haiti.
[This report was developed and prepared by a US Army representative
assigned to the office of preparation.]
1. I recently spent approximately three days in Haiti (9-12 Dec 68) and
while there had extended visits with Clemard Joseph Charles, President,
Banque Commerciale d'Haiti, and also owner of a sisal plantation and mill.
Present during my visits with Charles was his personal assistant and con-
fidant, Ludovich Celestines. Charles, a devout Catholic, personally told
me that he intended to attempt to overthrow Duvalier. He has made specific
plans for this overthrow in late February or early March 1969. He claims
that he definitely has the Army and the Catholic Church with him, and
that the overthrow will be without bloodshed.
2. I had not intended to contact other officials or individuals in Haiti.
However, on the last day of my stay I was invited to visit with Clovis
M. Desinor, formerly Haiti's representative to the UN and currently Dr.
Duvalier's Minister of Finance. He is said to be the No. 2 man in Haiti
next to Duvalier. Present at the meeting with Desinor was his assistant,
Dr. Herve Boyer and reportedly the No. 3 man.
BACKGROUND
3. I first met the individuals mentioned above in 1965-66 while on an
extended stay in Haiti for business purposes. I was introduced to Charles
by Max Rowe, a driver assigned to me by the Haitian Government and whose
wife, Raymonde, was the personal secretary for Charles. Rowe continued
to drive for me on that first and subsequent visits to Haiti except on
this latest visit when he was absent in the US.
4. When I first met Charles he was President of the Banque Commerciale
d'Haiti, owned the Sisal plantation and mill, also owned a tannery
financed by West German interests, and was the President of the Haiti
Chamber of Commerce and Haitian correspondent for the First National
City Bank of New York. During the period approximately one year prior
to June 1967, Charles put into effect a system of Social Security (office
of National Assurance) which was working well and liked by the Haitian
INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT
YES
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
YES
The dissemination of this document is limited to civilian employees and active duty military personnel within the intelligence components
of the USIB member agencies, and to those senior officials of the member agencies who must act upon the information. However, unless specifically controlled
In accordance with paragraph 8 of DCID-1/7; it may be released to those components of the departments and agencies of the U. S. Government directly
participating in the production of National Intelligence. IT SHALL NOT BE DISSEMINATED TO CONTRACTORS. It shall not be disseminated to organisa
tions of personnel, including consultants, under a contractual relationship to the U. S. Government without the written permission of the originidar.
PRINTED ON

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000
people. He also devised an automobile insurance system and was financing
this through the Banque Commerciale d'Haiti.
5. In a period just prior to June 1967 Duvalier was convinced by Desinor and
Boyer that Charles was, or at least had been, plotting Duvaliers' over-
throw. Together with a large group Charles was imprisoned in Port-au-Prince
from June 1967 to June 1968.
6. Just prior to the arrest of Charles, Max Rowe's wife, Raymonde, took
US$200,000 out of the bank and hid it near Cap Haitien in the north and
advised Charles' wife of the location. In addition, Max Rowe claims
that in June 1967 he and his wife (Raymonde Rowe is in process of getting
US citizenship. Max is in the US on a visitor's permit) brought papers
incriminating Charles to the US and destroyed them.
BANK'S FINANCIAL CONDITION
7. Although Charles has the bank, his position at present is difficult.
I saw the bank balance sheet which shows assets of US$2.9 million but only
US$29,000 (as of 10 Dec 68) cash on hand. With this small amount of cash
he can no longer make loans. He says that he has found it necessary to
make sizeable loans to Haitians who have in turn made highly speculative
loans to others at exorbitant rates of interest. Very minor amounts of
these loans have been repaid to the bank and thus his current financial
position.
8. Charles is hopeful that when Duvalier's overthrow has been completed he
will be able to get private financial assistance from the US. According
to Charles, US financial organizations have almost completely stopped
their assistance because of the oppressive Duvalier Government.
9. Charles says that Max Rowe is aware of his plans to overthrow Duvalier
which were communicated to Rowe by a La Bonte Jean, who is also in the
US. Charles says that the Army is unhappy with Duvalier because of the
execution of fourteen officers after the abortive May 1968 invasion,
which included Major Toma, who was popular and powerful in his position as
a censor and in control of all foreigners coming into Haiti. Charles
maintains that the Ton Ton Macoutes are no longer a potent force - not
operational. They have no food and are receiving no pay.
10. John Pierre La Grand, UK Consul General in Haiti and Shell Oil General
Manager, agrees with Charles that Desinor and Boyer are Duvaliers closest
confidants. Fito Metales (alias Fritz Belmont) is said by Rowe and
La Grand to be Duvalier's hatchet man. He is manager of the Croupiera
at the Royal Cabaret. La Grand says that the "old man" (Duvalier) is
stronger than ever, both in health and power.
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000
DEPT OF STATE AIRGRAM (EXCERPT)
A-347
DATE: 3 AUGUST 1968
SUBJECT: HAITIAN FINANCIAL STATESMEN,
MID-1968
CLASSIFICATION: NOT KNOWN

--- Page 8 ---

14-00000
This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title
18, U S.C. Secs 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CONTROLLED DISSEM CONFIDENTIAL NO DISSEM ABROAD
COUNTRY Haiti REPORT NO. 00-6-324/21215-68
SUBJECT Clemard Joseph Charles Has Reportedly DATE DISTR 26 JUL 1968
Paid US$200 Thousand Ransom And Promised An NO PAGES 2
Additional US$400 Thousand in Return for REFERENCES
Release from Prison And Reinstatement As
President of Commercial Bank of Haiti
DATE OF INFO. Jul 68
PLACE & DATE ACQ. -/Jul 68
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION
Naturalized US citizen of Haitian birth, official of an import-
export company. Source maintains close contact with Haitians
in the US and with prominent business and political figures in
Haiti.
1. Effective 10 Jul 68, Clemard Joseph Charles was reinstated
as the president of the Commercial Bank of Haiti (BCH), as
announced in the Haitian public press. A stockholders'
meeting is scheduled for mid-Aug 68.
2. I have heard from previously reliable sources that Charles was
compelled to pay to the Government of Haiti (GOH) the sum of
US$200 thousand (not Haitian gourds) as the price of reinstate-
ment as head of the BCH. Charles has also promised, as part
of the price of reinstatement, to pay an additional US$400
thousand. This total of US$600 thousand closely approximates
the US$605 thousand cited earlier as the "ransom" for Charles'
release from prison. I understand that the US$200 thousand
has already been paid. Where Charles got this sum. I do not
know. He could have withdrawn the US$100 thousand which he
on deposit at the First National City Bank in New York
City; I do not know whether or not he has done so. It seems
clear that President Duvalier has decided that the possible
long-term benefits of allowing the bank to function (and thus
enabling Charles to raise the required US$400 thousand and also
possibly attracting foreign investment capital to Haiti) out-
weigh the benefits of refusing him permission to operate until
total "ransom" should have been paid.
INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT
The dissemination of this document is limited to civilian employees and active duty military personnel within the intelligence components
of the US18 member agencies, and to those senior officials of the member agencies who must act upon the information. However, unless specifically controlled
in accordance with paragraph 8 of DCID 1/7, it may be released to those components of the departments and agencies of the U. S. Government directly
participating in the production of National Intelligence. IT SHALL NOT BE DISSEMINATED TO CONTRACTORS. It shall not be disseminated to organiza
tions or personnel, including consultants, under a contractual relationship to the U. S. Government without the written permission of the originator.

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000
SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
24 July 1963
TO: Assistant Chief of Staff, Intelligence
Department of the Army
Attention: Source Register
FROM: Interagency Source Register
SUBJECT: CLEMARD, Joseph Charles
aka: CHARLES, Clemard Joseph
80-11612
1. Reference is made to your request for registration dated
3 June 1968 concerning Subject. You are referred to 00-E-324/
06349-66 dated 14 April 1966, subject: Clemard Joseph Charles
Believed to be President Duvalier's Personal Financial Manager/
Blographical Data on C J Charles; OO-A(S) 322/14068-68 dated May
1968, subject: Clemard Joseph-Charles Must Raise US $605 Thousand
Before He Can Resume His Banking and Other Activities; and 00-A(8)
322/14367-68 dated 22 May 1968, subject; Rearrest of Clemard
Joseph Charles/Charles Is Not Able to Raise US$605 Thousand Ransom/
Data Concerning Charles' US Bank Accounts/President Duvalier
Might Settle for US$100 Thousand Cash/Charles Has Credit of
US$300 Thousand in National Bank of the Republic of Haiti and Claims
an Additional US$100 Thousand. Copies are attached for your retention.
2. The Interagency Source Register has no record of a
current operational interest in Subject. DCS reserves the right to
contact Subject under the provisions of DCID 2/3.
HERM-28,910:
Encl. 3 attachments as stated above
RID/CE: JMA/JD/bdt
BASED ON: 201-357029
FILE IN: 201-357029*
SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
FILE IN 201 357029
SHOW 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification

--- Page 10 ---

14-00000
FROM
PRIORITY
TOI
TO
INDEX
FROM
RESULTS
SECRET (When Filled In)
1SR LOG
IMMEDIATE
SERVICE NO.
SECURITY
DATE
COVER
AREA DESK TOV Tier-13 VÆRT 968-
COMMENTS
No Present Contact
"No objection to registration. TCs reserved the
right to contact sublect under provistions of SCID 2,
"DCID 2-3 and 2-0/1
FORM 1797 IOLETE PREVIOUS
11.63
EDITIONS.
SECRET
DO NOT USE THIS SPACE
18RM NO.
DATE
28,910
7 JUN 68]
801-
(80-38)

--- Page 11 ---

14-00000
L
NAME
SECRET
(When Filled In)
WH
VINCENT A. DI BENEDETTO
FI/132
2-E-03
REGISTRATION REQUEST
Ext. 5045
CLEMARD, Joseph Charles
ALIASES AND/OR SPELLING VARIATIONS
DATE OF BIRTH
PLACE OF BIRTH
21 April 1923
Gonavives, Haiti
PRESENT ADDRESS
PRESENT EMPLOYMENT
TRAVEL
General Electric Co., Ltd, London
US, UK, France, Italy, and West Germany
ADDITIONAL PERTINENT IDENTIFYING DATA
201 held by 11/18.
14.
DO NOT USE THIS SPACE
ISRM NO.
DATE
28,910
20 NO.
468
357029
CITIZENSHIP
OCCUPATION
Sole representative of
MEMORANDUM COORDINATION
Date 1273178NITIALS
AT ANALYST T JHP
ON. ERANCH
TSK
WHSAHI
RIEDITOR
LOL TYPIAL
D-11612 Recheck
24 Jun 68
1800
SD 11612
PHORITY
11 41 AM '68
RID/IN
RECEIVED
1. Subject is being carried under FILE IN 201-
FILE IN 201-357029
-11612. BD-19022 is hereby cancelled.
SECRET
34!
The
12 JUN 1968
GROUP
Oncluded from oulsmellt
downgrading and
declauficalige

--- Page 12 ---

14-00000
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
(When Filled In)
TOTAL COPIES 2.
GROUP 1
EXCEED FACH AUTOMATE
SOGRADING AND
CLASSIFICATION
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED
INDEX:
AT:
VES
NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
A REF TO FILE NO.
2
*TING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY
P
с
8
4
D
S
10
بي
DISSEM BY.
ACTION
PER
INFO
WHO'
RID COPY
FILE.
FILE RID ☐ RET. TO
VR,
BRANCH ☐
WH/2068 RYAN C
PRIN"
SECRET 191640Z JUL 68 CITE PORT AU PRINCE $289
DIRECTOR INFO SANTO DOMINGO, JMCOBRA
DESTROY ☐ SIG.
CLOPS FL
19 JUL 68 IN 53746
HE'NRI SICLAIT DIRECTOR OF TOBACCO MONOPLY AND
INTRIGUER AGAINST CLEMARD JOSEPH CHARLES, AND WHO IS
NOW RUMORED IN DIFFICULTIES SINCE CHARLES RELEASE,
LEFT PORT AU PRINCE 17 JULY ON PANAM 234 PRESS
STATED PURPOSE TO VISIT WIFE'S SICK MOTHER.
SECRET
BT
d
AN
AB
א
☑
&
HID
CS COPY
SECRET
201-357029

--- Page 13 ---

14-00000
SECRET
16. July 1968.
MEMORANDUM FOR:
Director, Domestic Contact Service
Operational Support Stall
ATTENTION
'
Mr. George S. Musulin
SUBJECT
DCS Case 47540 - Contact
with Louis A. Brun
1. Reference is made to our memorandum of 12 April
1966 and subsequent communications on the subject of WH/7
Interest in the contact which had buen established by DC8 repre-
sentatives in New York with Louis A. Brun. This contact served
to monitor the activities of Chamard Joseph Charles, the Haitian
banker, who was plotting to overthrow the Duvalier regime in
Haiti.
2. In June 1967, Charles was arrested in Port-au-Prince
and has spent the majority of the time since then in jail. He is
released at various intervals by Duvalier apparently to give him
the opportunity to locate more money for the regime. Since
Charles foll from grace, it has become apparent that any hopes **
er plans ho may have had to overthrow Duvalier have long since
past. Accordingly, we wish to advise that WH/7 has no special
interest in DCS maintaining contact with Brun to cover Charles'
activities. Likewise, we do not fool that there are any special
requirements at this time which Brun could service regarding
Haitian matters.
Excluded
SECRET
WOWAgri... ON

--- Page 14 ---

14-00000
SECRET
3. We do not, however, wish to interpose any objection
to DCS maintaining contact with Brun for its own purposes and
we would appreciate being advised of any information of signi-
ficance on Haiti which may be produced through this contact,
Paul V. Harwood
Chief, WH/1
| DDP/WH/7/Haiti/RWBerg:klh (16 Jul 68)
Distribution:
· Orig & 1 - Addes
1 - WH/7/HE
Subj file
SECRET

--- Page 15 ---

14-00000
Director, Dometic Contact Service
ATTH 1 Operational Support Staff (Musulin)
Chief, New York Field Office
BY-529-60
15 July 1968
Lotter from Louis A. Ens to Clemard Josupt: Quarles (to be Porwarded
Via Robert C. Palder, United States Bubansy, Port-au-Prince, Haiti)
REFERENCES: (A) NY-467-68 (20 June 1960); (B) CONTACTS/MARKDROPOM `80548;
(c) Chae $7,540
1. Reference "A" forwarded to you a letter from Louis
A. Brun, B&B International Corporation, 134 Fifth Avenue, How.
York, York, to Cimard Joseph Chariss, Port-au-Prince,
Haiti. This letter was to be sent by State Departamit diplomtic
pouch to Mr. Robert C. Felder, United States Embassy, Port-au-
Prince, Haiti, and given by him to Charles. Brul had told us
that Folder had agreed to act as intermediary for correspondence
between himself and Charles and added that he and Charles Ind
already used the system. The letter in Reference "A" was the
first time ve bad besa approached in the miter.
2. Reference "B" stated that the letter had been dispatched
via No age Center Courier to the State Impartment on 24 June
1968.
or about 2. June 1968 Brún talephoned us and stated
that Charles had not received the letter. We telephoned Mr.
Musulin, who double-checked and assured us that the letter had.
gone to the State Department and that it should go out in the
next pouch.
On 10 July 1968, Brun Selephoned us and stated that
on 9 July 1968 he had received a telephone call from a Ray
Alvares. Alvares cantified himself as a State Department
employee in Washington and told Brun that he and the letter
destined for Curles. alvares then told Brun that he would
return the letter if run would tell him how it and reached the
Department. Brun refused to give Alvares any information
then telephoned Mr. Hamulin and relayed the foregoing in-
ormation. Mr. Musulin inquired into the matter and isermóð
the letter had gune to Misi in the State Department
not been delivered to Foldar and land boen returne
and we surműend that the State Depo

--- Page 16 ---

14-00000
1479-68
15 OUT 198
not wish to lay itself open to the charge di Voconing embroiled
in local Haitian politics and so had refused
letter to Falder. We reported this information
deliver the
Brun
On 11 July 1968 Brun telephoned us and tall us that
he had received a letter from Carles via the Falls? Wennol.
This letter bore a New York City postmark. He pie 3. '* for-
nation to Mr. Musulin. We told Brm that it is quite prob@b_•
that Felder has a personal arrangement with unknown parties
which permits him to use the diplomatic pouch facilities.
we do not, letters can go only from Charles to Brun and not
from Brun to Charles. Brun and ve agreed that he will not
henceforth attempt to use Fulder to send letters to Charles.
6. Mr. Musulin agreed to retrieve the letter from
State Department and to send it to us. We shall retuṁ is
forthwith to Brun.
Stace
JUHSchell;ch
TH: Louis A. Brun
B&B Int'l Corp.
234 Fifth Ave,
New York, NY
Qase $7,540
a.
...

--- Page 17 ---

14-00000
B. & B. INTERNATIONAL CORP.
134 FIFTH AVENUE
NEW YORK, N. Y. 10011
MME. Clemaid JOSEPH CHARLES
PORT, ALE PRINCE
HAITI
SECRET
BACKGROUND USE ONLY

--- Page 18 ---

14-00000
Mme Clémard Joseph Charles
Port-au-Prince
Haiti

Ma chère Sophie,

Cette lettre est pour t'accuser réception des tiennes des 17 et 26 mai
écoulés et du 4 juin en cours.

Si tu n'as pas eu de mes nouvelles depuis mon départ d'Haiti le 7 mai dernier,
c'est que premièrement, je me proposais de retourner voir Clémard la semaine
suivante. Le voyage a dû être différé lorsque j'ai su que Clémard avait, à
nouveau, été arrêté le 11 mai. J'ai même eu à faire un câble à un ami pour
lui annoncer mon arrivée et je suis sûr qu'il a dû t'en informer.

Dueièmement, l'arrestation de Clémard ainsi que les nouvelles der derniers
événements en Haiti on eu des effets négatifs sur les négociations en cours
que j'avais entamées pour Clémard et qui semblaient vouloir aboutir. Je n'ai
pas besoin de te dire combien j'en ai été bouleversé. Alors que nos amis
d'ici et moi pensions pouvoir aider Clémard que nous estimons comme un frère,
sa nouvelle arrestation est venue nous assommer avec une rigueur dont nous
nous remettons à peine.

Avant d'aller plus loin, je dois te dire que tu ne dois point douter de notre
dévouement pour Clémard. Il sait, et tu dois aussi le savoir, que nous ne
saurions jamais marchander notre concours à un ami pour qui nous avons à plus
grande affection et pour qui nous sommes prêts à consentir tous les sacrifices
personnels que les circonstances peuvent exiger. Je crois devoir to dire que
si, en dehors d'Haiti, je n'arrive à le tirer de l'impasse dans laquelle il se
trouve, je doute fort, sans fausse modestie, que quelqu'un d'autre puisse
réussir à le faire.

Nos puissants amis communs tant à New York, Washington, Miami et ailleurs ont
tous manifesté un désir sérieux de lui venir en aide dans les limites de leurs
possibilités respectives.

Depuis mon retour d'Haiti je me suis mis en action à cette fin et al personelle-
ment vu plusieurs personnalités du monde financier qui n'ont pas hésité à
consacrer une grande partie de leur temps précieux à la concrétisation des plans
que j'ai eu à envisager avec Clémard en vue de lo tirer d'embarras le plus
rapidement possible.
SECRET
GHLY
✓...

--- Page 19 ---

14-00000
Page 2

Nes espoirs de réussite ainsi que ceux de tous les amis contactés se sont
heurtés aux effets négatifs inévitables provenant tant de la nouvelle arres-
tation de Clémard que des derniers événements survenus en Haiti depuis le
20 mai écoulé. Je t'envoie, pour preuve, copie d'une lettre d'un de ces
grands amis, Mr. Howard Burris de Washington, D.C.. Je te demande de garder
cette lettre strictement confidentielle car je n'aurais pas aimé que le nom
de Mr. Burris soit mentionné à quiconque en Haiti. Si cela arrivait, nous
pourrions perdre un très bon ami.

Pour ton information, je te dirai que Mr. Burris est un colonel retraité du
Corps de Génie de l'armée américaine, ami personnel et conseiller du Président
Johnson et extrêmement influent à Washington tant dans le monde politique que
financier. J'ai eu à faire deux voyages à Washington entre le 8 et 11 mai au
cours desquels lui et moi envisagions les moyens d'aider Clemard selon le "modus"
envisagé. La copie de sa lettre du 7 juin en cours saura te confirmer ce qui
précède.

J'ai aussi vu personnellement et lui ai causé maintes fois au téléphone,
Joseph Dryer, qui devait se rendre en Haiti le 24 mai pour te vois mais qui a
du renvoyer son voyage après les nouvelles de la dernière tentative d'invasion.
Je lui ai encore causé récemment au téléphone et il a eu à me faire part des
résultats négatifs de ses efforts, toujours en fonction des mêmes circonstances.

Le lettres adressées aux autres amis de l'étranger, dont Dabinovick, par example,
sont restées jusqu'ici sans réponses. Je vais une nouvelle fois écrire longue=
ment à Dabinovick pour lui transmettre ta dernière communication avec l'espoir
d'avoir un mot encourageant de lui.

Comme tu dois le comprendre, ma chère Sophie, nos efforts, malgré toute notre
bonne volonté, ne sauraient se concrétiser à brève échéance, car les valeurs en
question qu'il nous faut trouver ne sont pas insignifiantes. Je te signalerai en
passant un point qui a été soulevé au cours des négociations et qui fait ressortir,
qua me ni nos numin neraient en mesure d'avancor à Clémard les valeurs nécessaires,
ils ont des doutes sérieux non pas sur la sincérité de Clémard à faire face aux
obligations qui devront être contractées, mais à la possibilité matérielle de ra-
patrior, en dollars américains, les valeurs avancés. J'ai personnellement nonisté
A doa cóntrelin avec dea bruiquioru d'ici qui offliment qu'avant longtemps, Haiti
niguu prvúque, plus de devinen-dollars pour solder sus comptes à l'étranger. Autant
d'obstaclus que je suis malheureusement obligé de te signaler pour que tu saches
à quoi t'en tonir.

Concernant maintenant le grand banquier noi dont j'ai eu moi-même à dire à
Clémard que je croyais pouvoir nous aider, celui-ci a ou à me faire comprendre
qu'il ne pouvait an l'occurrence intéresser son institution à une affaire de co
genre qui comporte trop de risques. De ce côtô là 11 n'y a donc pas grand espoir.
SECRET
BACKGROUND USE ONLY.

--- Page 20 ---

14-00000
Page 3.

Ceci dit, malgré tous ces obstacles qui sembleraient insurmontables, je n'ai
pas totalement perdu l'espoir de pouvoir t'aider à sortir, Clénard, sain et
scuf, de la prison où sa santé se détériore rapidement, je le sais. L'essentiel
est que le Chef lui-même soit persuadé que l'inhabilité que nous éprouvons à
satisfaire les exigences du moment, ne sont en aucune façon imputables à Clémard
mais plutôt à des circonstances totalement indépendantes de notre volonté.

Je prie Dieu Tout-puissant pour que l'on finisse par réaliser que Clémard, en
bon patriote haïtien, a eu foi en son pays et n'a pas cru bon d'expatrier, comme
plus d'un l'a fait, le fruit de ses durs labeurs et de son intelligence pro-
ductive.

Je me proposals d'écrire personnellement à Son Excellence le Président à Vie
d'Haiti, pour implorer sa clémence et sa générosité pour un ami qui nous est cher.
Je me suis alors demandé si c'était là un geste sage qui pourrait avoir la vertu.
de l'épargner et, dans le doute, j'ai préférer m'abstenir.

Pour revenir maintenant aux possibilités