104-10004-10143
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
Box 8

MEMO FOR THE RECORD:
1 June 1964
SX-2560
Discussion between Bomber SR Divisions and COS Helsinki concerning timetable of Oswald's stay in Helsinki.

1. At 0900 this morning I talked with Frank Friberg recently returned COS Helsinki re Warren Commission inquiry concerning the timetable of Oswald's stay in Finland in October 1959, including his contact with the Soviet Consulate there. Copy of the Commission letter of 25 May 64 and State Cable of 22 May attached.

Aberg gave me the following information:

*   It takes 15 minutes to drive from the US Consulate to reach the Soviet consulate.
*   There were no more than five Saturdays in 1959.
*   Passenger lists (manifests) at the US Consulate in Helsinki are retained for six months only and then are destroyed.
*   Mr. Robert Fulton (CIA) was U.S. consular official there at the time.
*   A copy of State's cable inquiry would go to the Helsinki Station and they would assist in preparation of the reply.

Mr. Friberg agreed that it would be worthwhile to cable the Station concerning points not covered by State in their inquiry. He suggested changes incorporated into the cable sent.

Document Number
716-838

For FOIA Review on:
SAME AS DOC
JUN 1976
RELEASED
340
RECORD COPY

Lee H. Wigren
C/SK/CI/R

TRAVEL PROGRAM:
1P/EDI ABSTRACT
INDEX
IP/FIS
PREPARE FOR FILMING
IP/PH
FILM
CODE NO. (2,3,4)
RYBAT REST CODE
ISO/DCU
CABLE IDEN (11)
NFD (8)
IP/FILES
FOR FILING
1 Jun 64
201-289248
