‘Tiiod-t0070-10296 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
18 January 1952

Washington
R. S. Travis 2268
New York
Secret-Security Information
TO LEA FROM ASHCRAFT BY SPECIAL SERVICES (TRAVIS) WA 8622
THIS IS SENSITIVE
THIS IS NET CASE 9145. REFERENCE MADE TO LEA'S CONVERSATION YESTERDAY
WITH TRAVIS AND ROSE REGARDING THE OPC REQUEST FOR CONTACT WITH THE RESEARCH
INSTITUTE OF AMERICA. AS (ROSE) INDICATED, HE WILL BE IN NEW YORK ON WEDNESDAY,
23 JANUARY, AND WOULD LIKE TO HAVE YOU MAKE ARRANGEMENTS TO MEET WITH THE
APPROPRIATE PERSON OR PERSONS IN RIA TO DISCUSS A COVER CASE. (ROSE) HAS ADVISED
THAT BOTH LEO CHERNE AND CARL HOVGARD HAVE BEEN GIVEN COVERT OPERATIONAL
CLEARANCES.

FOLLOWING IS THE BACKGROUND OF THIS CASE. THERE IS A MAN BY THE
NAME OF WILLIAM J. ACON, PRESENTLY WORKING FOR ECA IN WASHINGTON WHO IS GOING
TO RESIGN FROM ECA AND COME WITH CIA, AND WILL GO OVERSEAS FOR OPC. HE IS
GOING TO LEAVE ECA SOMETIME AROUND THE END OF THIS MONTH, AND MUST HAVE SOME
EXPLANATION AS TO THE REASON FOR HIS RESIGNATION. THEREFORE, CPC WISHES
TO LOCATE SOME FIRM WHICH WILL BE WILLING TO BACKSTOP (ACON'S)
RESIGNATION, IN THE FORM OF SUPPOSEDLY HIRING ACON. ACON HAS BEEN A RESEARCH
ANALYST ON ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL PROBLEMS IN ITALY, AND IT IS FELT THAT
PERHAPS, EMPLOYMENT WITH RIA WOULD BE A LOGICAL REASON TO
GIVE FOR RESIGNING FROM ECA. THE RIA COVER WILL NOT BE UTILIZED FOR (ACON'S)
COVER OVERSEAS. ABOUT ALL THAT WOULD BE REQUIRED OF RIA WOULD BE TO ACKNOWLEDGE.
SENSITIVE SECRET SECURITY INFORMATION

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000
SECRET TO WASHINGTON FROM NEW YORK
TO ASHCRAFT FOR TRAVIS FROM LEA - SECURITY INFORMATION
CITE NY 2392
CASE 9145.
THIS IS SENSITIVE.
RE W-8622. LEO CHERNE
IS THE MAN. WE HAVE SET UP AN APPOINTMENT FOR NEXT WEDNESDAY AT 3:30 PM
SO ROSE BETTER BE HERE IN THIS OFFICE BY 2:30 PM.
PLEASE CONFIRM.
GR-62

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000
R. S. Travis
New York
Secret-Security Information
TO LEA FROM ASHCRAFT BY SPECIAL SERVICES (TRAVIS)
RE CASE 9145 AND UR NY 2392. (ROSE) ADVISES THAT HE WILL BE IN YOUR OFFICE BY 2:30 PM ON WEDNESDAY,
23 JANUARY. THANKS MUCH.
SECRET SECURITY INFORMATION SENSITIVE

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000
April 6, 1921
Single
American
Education:
Amsterdam High School, Amsterdam, Netherlands
St. Louis University, St. Louis, Missouri (ASTP 6/43-2/44)
Georgetown Foreign Service School - 2 yrs. (6/47-8/48)
University of Chicago - MA in International Economic
Relations in 1951
Dutch, French and Italian
Thesis: "Post-war Economic Recovery in the Netherlands =
The Marshall Plan" (received honors)
Record:
1950-present International Economist, GS-7, in
(European Program Division of ECA). Mainly concerned
with Italian and Trieste economic affairs. Analysed
economic and financial position of Italy in light of
ECA aid program, and handled administration of the
aid program itself. Also prepared two, three and
four year forecasts designed to show expected
economic trends and developments in Italy. These
were included in the ECA congressional presentations.

Oct. 47 - June '48 Research analyst in Historical Division
(of Department of the Army. Engaged in selection
of and formulation of reports on German documents
which shed light on the West Europe campaign.

Oct. 46 - Feb. 47 Archivist in Office of Military Government
for Germany, Department of the Army. Served as
chief of the Documents Library, collected reports,
dispatches, cables, etc and developed an index system

Jan. 45 - Aug 45 Assistant to Food and Agriculture Officer
with Military Gov's Section of Hq. Twelfth Army
Group. Duties consisted mainly of availability and
requirements studies connected with food needs of the
German population

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000
SECRET TO WASHINGTON FROM NEW YORK
TO ASHCRAFT FOR TRAVIS FROM LEA SECURITY INFORMATION
SENSITIVE
CITE: NY 0478
THIS IS SENSITIVE.
CASE 9145.
THE MEETING TODAY WITH CHERNE WAS COMPLETELY SUCCESSFUL.
WHEN HE GETS BACK TO WASHINGTON, ROSE IS GOING TO SUBMIT TO US THROUGH
YOU ADDITIONAL BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON (ACON) WHICH WE WILL
TURN OVER TO CHERNE
WE WOULD SUGGEST THAT WHEN ACON MAKES HIS PITCH AT ECA AND TELLS
THEM THAT HE IS BEING OFFERED A JOB WITH THE RESEARCH INSTITUTE OF
AMERICA THAT HE STRESS THE NAME OF LEO CHERNE WHO ACTUALLY WILL BE THE
ONLY PERSON WHO WILL BE ABLE TO BACK UP THIS STORY.
Designed with Rose. He will
furnish data to us
Copy sent to Rant.

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000
SECRET
January 1952
SECURITY INFORMATION
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Backstopping of Cover by the Research Institute
of America

1. Pursuant to conversations between Mr. Rose and Mr. Engels of
CIA/OPC and Mr. Travis of 00/Contacts, an appointment was made for Mr.
Rose to see Mr. Leo Cherne, Executive Secretary of the Research Insti-
tute of America, 292 Madison Avenue, New York City, to explore the
willingness of Mr. Cherne to backstop the cover story of a proposed
agent in training. The appointment was made, and kept, for Wednesday
morning, 23 January 1952 in New York City in the presence of Mr. Clark
of the New York branch of the Contacts Division.

The proposed story of the agent in question, who had been employed on the economic research side of ECA specializing in Italy, was
that he wished to resign from ECA and take up an offer to be extended
to him in civilian employment. Since the Research Institute of America
seemed to fit in naturally with his background and activities in ECA,
Mr. Cherne was asked:

a. If he would backstop the agent's story that he was
quitting ECA to take employment with the Research Institute of
America during his three months period of training with CIA,
and

b. Whether he would in fact employ the agent and send
him as a representative of the Institute to Italy at the con-
clusion of his period of training.

Mr. Cherne replied that unfortunately the latter was impossible
inasmuch as his company did not send personnel overseas in any capacity.
As regards the immediate backstopping of the agent's story, however,
Mr. Cherne said that he would be happy to oblige for a period of train-
ing only, to wit, three months, after which other cover would have to
be sought. Mr. Cherne requested that he be furnished at an early date
with more complete information as to what was to be expected of him
in his role as a backstop and further stated that he would like to
meet the agent personally as soon as could be arranged. This has been
communicated to Mr. Engels, the case officer, who will oblige at the
earliest opportunity.
SECRET

3. This case

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000
SECRET
tion and
ay be referred to for further
mber C/101
OD/OP/BAR/TS
25 Jan 52
Distributions
OD/OP (Rose)
Lon/00
WE (Engels)
OD/OP
orig
- 3
SECURITY INFORMATION
(EDWARD A. ROSE
OD/OP
-20
SECRET
Lon and/or

--- Page 8 ---

14-00000
SECRET
Security Information
MEMORANDUM FOR
SUBJECT:
Edward A. Rose
7 February 1952
Cover Story for Research Institute of America

1. Mr. Acon, who has his MA in International Economic
Relations from the University of Chicago, has been working for
ECA. He has been hired by the Research Institute of America to
do economic research and writing for their weekly newsletter on
economic subjects having to do with Western Europe. (Mr. Acon
knows Dutch, German, French and Italian.) It could be admitted
that he would like eventually to do such writing abroad, but has
not yet found a way.

2. His hiring may be delayed for some time. Mr. Leo
Cherne will be informed when the story is to be used. By that
time, Mr. Acon will have called on Mr. Cherne.

DANIEL J. WHEALTON

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000
SECRET
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
Security Information
INSTRUCTIONS: Officer
should be used in the "TO" column. Under each comment a line should be drawn across sheet
and each comment numbered to respond with the number in the "TO" column. Each officer should initial (check mark insufficient)
before further routing. This Routing and Record Sheet should be returned to Registry.

FROM:
WE-4

NO. DATE COMMENTS DATE REC'D FWD'D OFFICER'S INITIALS
1. 7 Feb 52
2. Bob
3. OD/OP 1704 Feb 7 1952
4. 00/00 1704 Feb 7 1952
5. Mr. Rose
6. Mr Travis
7. Works you please
8. see that the new
9. Office gets this to pass
10. on to LC
11. as verbally
12. Case 9145
13.
14.
15.

U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
SECRET

--- Page 10 ---

14-00000
Chief, New York Office
Case 9145
Division
SENSITIVE
13 February 1952

1. When Rose of OPC was in New York on 23 January 1952 to discuss
cover with Mr. Leo Cherne, Executive Secretary of the Research Institute of
America, Mr. Cherne requested additional information as to what was to
be expected of him in his role as a backstop to the cover being established
for the OPC man. The following information has been forwarded by OPC,
and is quoted below. Mr. Rose requests that you pass this information
on to Mr. Cherne.

a. "Mr. Acon, who has his MA in International Economic Relations
from the University of Chicago, has been working for ECA. He has
been hired by the Research Institute of America to do economic
research and writing for their weekly newsletter on economic
subjects having to do with Western Europe. (Mr. Acon knows Dutch,
German, French and Italian.) It could be admitted that he would
like eventually to do such writing abroad, but has not yet found
a way.

b. "His hiring may be delayed for some time. Mr. Leo Cherne will
be informed when the story is to be used. By that time, Mr. Acon
will have called on Mr. Cherne."

2. We are closing this case. Should further action be required,
we will reopen.

E. M. ASHCRAFT

SENSITIVE

--- Page 11 ---

14-00000
SECRET
SECRET WASHINGTON FROM NEW YORK
TO ASHCRAFT FOR SPECIAL SERVICES (TRAVIS) FROM LEA -- SECURITY
INFORMATION
CITE NY 2315
CASE 9145.
JUN 2 12 51 PM 52
1. WILL YOU TELL (ROSE) RPT (ROSE) THAT THE APPOINTMENT WITH LEO CHERNE
RPT LEO CHERNE HAS BEEN SET UP FOR WEDNESDAY, 4 RPT 4 JUNE AT 11:30
RPT 11.30 A.M.
2. PLEASE CONFIRM
GR-58

Rose advised - he will
make appointment

--- Page 12 ---

14-00000
New York
R. S. Travis
Secret-Security Information
TO LEA FROM ASHCRAFT BY SPECIAL SERVICES (TRAVIS)
CASE 9145 AND UR NY 2315. (ROSE) ADVISES THAT HE WILL KEEP APPOINTMENT WITH CHERNE
AS SET-UP IN YOUR MESSAGE.
SECRET

--- Page 13 ---

14-00000
SECRET
Security Information
Chief Contact Division, 00
Chief, Cover Division, PLANS/OSO
Appointment with William A. BARRON, John E. TOULMIN
and Leo CHERNE
CS-1512 and CS-1337
19 May 1952

1. This will confirm Mr. Rose's verbal request that the
Contact Division/00 ask its Boston field office to arrange
appointments for Mr. Edward Rose of Cover Division, PLANS/OSO,
to see Mr. William A. Barron, Chairman of the Board, Gillette
Safety Razor Company, and Mr. John E. Toulmin, Senior Vice
President of the First National Bank of Boston, at their con-
venience on Wednesday May 21, 1952. The purpose of the visit
is to explore the willingness of these gentlemen to act as
ostensible donors of funds to support a current operation.

2. This will also confirm Mr. Rose's request that the
New York City field office of the Contact Division/00 arrange
an appointment for Mr. Rose to see Mr. Leo Cherne, President
of the Research Institute of America at Mr. Cherne's conven-
ience on Thursday May 22, 1952. Mr. Cherne, who has for some
time been backstopping the activities of an agent in this
country, has apparently expressed willingness to provide
cover for this agent abroad. The purpose of the interview is
to discuss more fully Mr. Cherne's proposal. Cover Division
would be happy to have an 00 field office representative
present to insure continuity.

3. As a result of the above requests, Mr. Barron found
to his regret that he was unable to cooperate with the Agency
at the present time. Mr. Toulmin, on the other hand, was
most cooperative. Mr. Cherne, unfortunately, was out of town.
The New York field office has been asked to try to arrange a
meeting with Mr. Cherne, as outlined above, for Wednesday
afternoon, June 4, 1952.
SECRET
Security Information

--- Page 14 ---

14-00000
SECRET
Security Information
Office Memorandum UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
TO : Chief, Contact Division, 00
FROM : Chief, Cover Division, PLANS/OSO
SUBJECT: Field Trip to Interview Leo CHERNE
Reference: CS-1357
CS-1337 (Rose)
DATE: 6 June 1952
Case 9145

1. On Wednesday, June 4, 1952, an interview was arranged
by the Contact Division, 00, for Mr. Rose of the Cover Division,
PLANS/OSO with Mr. Leo Cherne, President of the Research
Institute of America. The meeting was held at 11:30 a.m. in
Mr. Cherne's office at 292 Madison Avenue, New York City, and
Mr. Rose was accompanied by Mr. Clark of the New York field
office of Contact Division 00.

2. Mr. Cherne, who is currently backstopping an operation
within the United States, had expressed the wish to be provided
with some form of letter indicating that the Agency was request-
ing his cooperation, and the purpose of the interview was to
inform Mr. Cherne that this was against Agency policy.

3. This information was accordingly conveyed by Mr. Clark
and Mr. Rose to Mr. Cherne who accepted it with good grace. In
reply to a question by Mr. Rose he indicated that this refusal
would in no way mitigate his desire to be of service to the
Agency.
SECRET
Security Information

--- Page 15 ---

14-00000
Office Memorandum UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
DATE: MARCH 1954
FROM : Coleman
SUBJECT: Case 9145

On 3 March Ormond requested that a meeting be set up for him with Leo Cherne,
President of the Research Institute of America. Ormond said that he would not
need more than a half an hour. Called Connor who had Bob McCann set up meeting
with Cherne for Monday (8th March) at 3:00 p.m. Ormond will go to the New York
Office at 2:15 on Monday to meet McCann and take off for the meeting. This
meeting was requested as a Cat III, and McCann will have to go out after
introduction. Ormond is happy, New York is happy.

--- Page 16 ---

14-00000
COLEMAN
SUPPORT
MARCH 1954
SECRET
TO LEA FOR CONNOR FROM ASHCRAFT BY SUPPORT (COLEMAN)
ROUTINE
CASE 9145. PER COMMOR/COLEMAN TELECONS OF 3 MARCH. (ORMOND) WILL BE IN
YOUR OFFICE AT 2:15, MONDAY THE 8TH OF MARCH PRIOR TO THE CAT III APPOINTMENT
YOU HAVE ARRANGED FOR HIM WITH LEO CHERNE. THANKS.

--- Page 17 ---

14-00000
Office Memorandum UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
TO : Chief, Contact Division, 00
FROM : Chief, FI/Plans/Cover Division
SUBJECT: Requested meeting with Leo Cherne
00/C Case 9145.
CS-1337 (Ormond)
DATE: 4 March 1954

1. On 3 March 1954, Mr. Coleman of your office was requested
by Mr. Ormond to arrange a Category III meeting for him with Leo
Cherne of Research Institute of America, 292 Madison Avenue, New
York City. The identity of an agent, and the area in which he will
be stationed will be discussed. On the same date Mr. Coleman in-
formed that the appointment had been made for 3:00 PM on 8 March
1954. (Ormond) was requested to arrive at the New York 00/C office
between 2:00 - 2:15 PM to meet Bob McCann who will accompany him to
Cherne's office and make the introduction.

2. Cover Division appreciates the assistance rendered by your
office. Mr. (Ormond) will follow the above instructions.

--- Page 18 ---

14-00000
MEMORANDUM FOR : Chief, Contact Division, 00
FROM : Chief, FI/Plans/Cover Division
SUBJECT : 00/C case 9145
SECRET
17 March 1954

1. On 8 March 1954, pursuant to arrangements that had been made
by your office, Bob McCann of your New York office introduced Mr.
Ormond to Mr. Leo Cherne of the Research Institute of America, 292
Madison Avenue, New York City. As a Category III interview had been
requested, Mr. McCann departed soon after the introduction was made.

2. We would like to inform you that Mr. Cherne was cordial and
agreed to cooperate with the Agency as requested.

3. On 15 March 1954, Mr. Ormond again met with Mr. Cherne in his
office at New York City to discuss further the operational matter. You
were previously informed of Ormond appointment on 15 March 1954 and
while in New York on that day, he visited your New York office.

4. Your assistance in this matter is indeed appreciated by Cover
Division.

--- Page 19 ---

14-00000
COLEMAN
SUPPORT
2238
23 March 1954
NEW YORK
FOR CONNOR
LEA/FROM ASHCRAFT BY SUPPORT (COLEMAN)
SECRET
ROUTINE
CASE 9145. FOR YOUR INFORMATION, (OLIVER ORMOND) WILL BE IN NEW YORK ON 23 MARCH FOR
A 10:30 A.M. MEETING WITH LEO CHERNE. HE WILL COME TO THE NEW YORK OFFICE ABOUT
1 P.M. FOR THE PURPOSE OF DELIVERING A CHECK TO AMOS BELDER IN RE CASE 8417.

--- Page 20 ---

14-00000
Jan 56
Washington
R. S. Travis 2268
SECRET
CONNOR FROM SUPPORT (TRAVIS) WA 8244
CASE 9145 REOPENED
RAY MILLARD HAS REQUESTED THAT YOU TRY TO SET UP
APPOINTMENT FOR HIM WITH LEO CHERNE IN CONNECTION WITH THIS CASE
SOMETIME NEXT WEEK. PURPOSE OF THE MEETING WILL BE TO SEE CHERNE ABOUT
EXTENDING COVER ARRANGEMENT FOR ADDITIONAL PERIOD OF TIME. REQUEST
THAT THIS APPOINTMENT BE COORDINATED WITH ONE REQUESTED FOR MILLARD UNDER
CASE 18945 (COLEMAN). THANKS VERY MUCH.
SECRET

--- Page 21 ---

14-00000
CITE NYOR 1191
SUPPORT TRAVIS FROM MCCANN
CASE 9145 X 9145
SECRET
RAY MILLARD HAS APPOINTMENT WITH LEO CHERNE
ON THURSDAY 26 JANUARY AT 2 PM.
CHERNE'S ADDRESS IS 292 MADISON AVE.
APPOINTMENT UNDER CASE 18945 IS FOR SAME DAY AT 3 PM.
SUGGEST RAY MILLARD DROP BY THIS OFFICE AT 1:30 PM ON 26
JANUARY, BEFORE HIS MEETING WITH CHERNE.
PLEASE CONFIRM.

--- Page 22 ---

14-00000
R. S Travis 226
SECRET
MCCANN FROM SUPPORT (TRAVIS) WA 8456
CASES 9145 AND 18945. REUR NYOR 1191. MILLARD WILL MAKE APPOINTMENTS
SET UP BY YOU HE WILL CHECK INTO THE OFFICE BY 1:00 PM ON THE 26TH. THANKS
VERY MUCH.
SECRET

--- Page 23 ---

14-00000
CITE NYOR 135
SECRET
SUPPORT (TRAVIS) FROM MCCANN
CASE 9145 X 9145
Jan 28
MILLARD HAD SUCCESSFUL MEETING WITH LEO CHERNE WHO AGREED TO PROPOSITION
MILLARD WILL DRAFT A LETTER FOR CHERNE WHICH WILL BE FORWARDED TO

--- Page 24 ---

14-00000
SECRET
CS-1337 (Millard)
February 1956
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contact Division, 00
SUBJECT : Research Institute of America

1. On 26 January 1956, Mr. Millard of this office,
together with Mr. Robert McCann, New York 00/C Office, inter-
viewed Mr. Leo Cherne of the above captioned organization.

2. The results of this meeting were extremely satis-
factory for our purposes and we are deeply appreciative of
Mr. McCann's assistance in this matter.

3. Your cooperation is appreciated.

--- Page 25 ---

14-00000
DRAFT
Dear

I am happy to know that you are agreeable to assisting
on a continuing basis as set out in your recent communication.
However, this letter is being prepared to formalize our under-
standing and to make it a matter of record.

Effective April 1, 1956, you are appointed a Research
Consultant for a period of two years with an annual salary of
$5,000.00.

--- Page 26 ---

14-00000
SECRET
CS-1337 (Millard)
February 1956
MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Robert McCann
New York 00/C Office
SUBJECT : Research Institute of America

1. Attached is a suggested draft of the proposed Letter of Under-
standing between Mr. Cherne and his special employee.

2. In addition to the two paragraphs set out in the draft, it is
suggested that Mr. Cherne also include either: (a) a brief general state-
ment of the duties and responsibilities or (b) a statement indicating that
the employee will continue the agreed-upon functions.

3. Another paragraph might be inserted with reference to the
employee's past satisfactory performance.

4. For Mr. Cherne's information, the employee has had another arti-
cle published in the New Leader which was issued on 23 January 1956,
under the title "Poujadiste".

5. We appreciate your and Mr. Cherne's courtesy and cooperation in
this matter.

Raymond Millard
Central Cover Branch
Non-Official Cover

Attachment
As stated above

--- Page 27 ---

14-00000
SECRET
CS-1337 (Millard)
2 February 1956
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contact Division, 00
SUBJECT : Research Institute of America

This is confirm the verbal concurrence given to Mr.
Millard on 2 February 1956 by Mr. Travis for the hand-
carry of the original of the attached memorandum to Mr.
Robert McCann, New York 00/C Office.

Attachment
As stated above

--- Page 28 ---

14-00000
15 Feb 56
Washington
R. S. Travis 2268
SECRET
MCCANN FROM SUPPORT (TRAVIS) WA 9789
CASE 9145. MILLARD WONDERS IF YOU HAVE HAD ANY SUCCESS IN OBTAINING CHERNE'S
SIGNATURE OF THE LETTER FORWARDED TO YOU IN DRAFT FORM ON 2 FEB? WOULD
APPRECIATE YOUR COMMENTS. THANKS

--- Page 29 ---

14-00000
CITE NYOR 1685
SUPPORT (TRAVIS) FROM MCCANN
CASE 9145 X 9145
SECRET
CHERNE HAS WRITTEN AND DISPATCHED THE LETTER.
WE HAVE COPY OF THE LETTER HERE, WHICH APPROXIMATES PROPOSED DRAFT
BY MILLARD.

--- Page 30 ---

14-00000
Washington
MCCANN FROM SUPPORT (TRAVIS) WA 350
CASE 9145. MILLARD ADVISES THAT COPY OF LETTER WRITTEN BY CHERNE WAS
SENT TO HEADQUARTERS ABOUT TWO WEEKS AGO. LETTER WAS NOT RECEIVED YOUR NYOR
1685 INDICATED THAT YOU HAD COPY, BUT NO RECORD HERE OF A
COPY EVER COMING TO HEADQUARTERS. WILL YOU PLEASE FORWARD COPY. THANKS VERY
MUCH
SECRET

--- Page 31 ---

14-00000
Office Memorandum UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
TO : Chief, Contact Division
Attn : Support (Travis)
FROM : Chief, New York Office
DATE: 5 March 1956
SUBJECT: Case 9145
WA 0350

1. We mistakenly advised Mr. Raymond Millard, last week,
that we had forwarded to your division a copy of the
letter which Leo Cherne had dispatched to Mr.
2. As you pointed out in your WA 0350 we merely
advised you that we had a copy and did not forward it
to Headquarters.

3. Attached you will find a replica of the letter written by
Mr. Cherne.

Charles A. Lea

Attachment

--- Page 32 ---

CS-1337. Case 9145
McCann
Cherne is aware that
is
writing for a magazine
Editor of this magazine is going
by the area where our man is
located, but is not willing
know Editor and
is
going to tell Editor that he works

--- Page 33 ---

for two and other
the extent that the
Editor knows Leo, and should
Leo and mention the agent
and the writing relates, Cherne
is not to identify the agent with CIA
Ray will send in report
of his conversation
so that of conversation
with Editor
he advised of it
Leo Cherne

--- Page 34 ---

14-00000
14 Sept 56
Washington
S. Travis
New York
Secret
MCCANN FROM SUPPORT (TRAVIS) WA 8598
CASE 9145. RAY MILLARD HAS REQUESTED THAT YOU PASS SOME INFORMATION ON TO
LEO CHERNE. YOU KNOW, AS DOES CHERNE, THAT OUR MAN WHO IS DOING
WORK FOR LEO, HAS ALSO BEEN WRITING FOR THE "NEW LEADER" AS WELL AS
OTHER JOBS. IT IS UNDERSTOOD THAT THE EDITOR OF THE "NEW LEADER", S. LEVITAS
IS GOING TO TAKE A TRIP TO THE AREA WHERE OUR BOY IS LOCATED, AND WILL SEE HIM.
WHEN OUR BOY SEES LEVITAS, HE IS GOING TO TELL HIM THAT HE DOES SOME WORK FOR
LEO CHERNE, AND OTHERS, BESIDES SUBMITTING ARTICLES FOR THE "NEW LEADER". HE WILL NOT
OF COURSE, IDENTIFY HIMSELF WITH THE AGENCY. LEVITAS IS UNWITTING OF ANY AGENCY
RELATIONSHIP, AND IT IS DESIRED THAT IT BE KEPT THIS WAY. ON THE OFF CHANCE THAT
CHERNE MAY KNOW LEVITAS AND ON THE FURTHER CHANCE THAT UPON HIS RETURN TO THE
US, LEVITAS MAY SEE CHERNE AND TELL HIM THAT HE RAN INTO OUR BOY WHO INDICATED
THAT HE WAS DOING SOME WORK FOR CHERNE, WILL YOU TELL CHERNE THAT LEVITAS IS NOT
WITTING OF THE FACT THAT THE BOY IS CONNECTED WITH THE AGENCY AND THAT HE
SHOULD NOT INDICATE TO (LEVITAS) THAT OR ASSUME THAT (CHERNE) KNOWS THE AGENCY
RELATIONSHIP.
THANKS VERY MUCH.
SECRET

--- Page 35 ---

14-00000
SECRET
CITE NYOR 4854
SUPPORT FROM MCCANN
CASE 9145 X 9145
SEP 20
ON 19 SEPTEMBER WE ADVISED LEO CHERNE OF THE
CONTENTS OF YOUR WA-8598. CHERNE, AS IT TURNED OUT, KNOWS
S. LEVITAS AND CONSIDERS HIM TO BE A VERY HIGH-TYPE,
PATRIOTIC INDIVIDUAL.
WE EXPLAINED TO CHERNE THAT LEVITAS WOULD NO DOUBT SEE OUR
MAN ABROAD AND CAUTIONED CHERNE THAT HE SHOULD NOT ASSUME THAT
LEVITA KNEW OF ANY RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE MAN INVOLVED AND THE
AGENCY. CHERNE REPLIED THAT HE WOULD IN NO WAY INDICATE THAT
SUCH A RELATIONSHIP EXISTED.

RAY MILLARD WAS INFORMED DURING HIS VISIT TO
NEW YORK THAT CHERNE HAD BEEN SO ADVISED.

--- Page 36 ---

14-00000
PRIORITY
SECRET
PRIORITY
SECRET
A CITE NYOR 6845
THIS IS SENSITIVE
CASE 9145 X 9145
SENSITIVE
THIS IS IN REFERENCE TO A REQUEST MILLARD OF COVER DIV.
MADE TO LEA IN WRITING CONCERNING THE FEAR OF OUR AGENT IN PARIS
THAT HIS COVER MAY HAVE BEEN BLOWN BY HIS SISTER, MEETING MR. JOSEPH
ARDLEIGH OF THE RESEARCH INSTITUTE AND TELLING HIM
THAT HER BROTHER WAS IN PARIS WORKING FOR SAID INSTITUTE.
CHERNE WAS APPRAISED OF THE SITUATION ON 14 FEBRUARY
AND HE REQUESTS THE FOLLOWING:

--- Page 37 ---

PLEASE ADVISE HIM OF THE NAME OF THE SISTER WHO MET MR. ARDLEIGH.
(WE ASSUME FROM THE GIST OF HIS QUESTION THAT HE WANTS TO BE
ABSOLUTELY SURE WHICH AGENT WE ARE TALKING ABOUT)
HE REQUESTS THAT JOSEPH ARDLEIGH BE MADE WITTING OF THE OPERATION
FOR OBVIOUS REASONS.

WE WILL SEND BIO DATA ON (ARDLEIGH) AS SOON AS CHERNE MAKES
IT AVAILABLE TO US
PLEASE SEND US THE NAME OF THE SISTER SO THAT WE CAN MAKE IT AVAILABLE
TO CHERNE.

--- Page 38 ---

14-00000
SECRET
CITE NYOR 6870.
SUPPORT FROM MAJOR
REF. NYOR 6845
SECRET
THE FOLLOWING IS THE BIO INFORMATION ON JOSEPH D. ARDLEIGH
JOSEPH D. ARDLEIGH, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, RESEARCH INSTITUTE OF
AMERICA, INC., 589 FIFTH AVE., NEW YORK, NEW YORK.

HE WAS BORN (4 MAY 1914 AT SCRANTON PENN.
HIS PRESENT HOME ADDRESS IS ALDEN ROAD, GREENWICH, CONN.:
HE WAS PREVIOUSLY CONNECTED WITH THE LAW FIRM OF MILBANK, TWEED, HOPE
AND WEBB OF NEW YORK, THE HOOVER COMPANY OF NORTH CANTON, OHIO, HAD HIS
OWN BUSINESS WHICH WAS KNOWN AS (SALES METHODS INC., ROCKEFELLER PLAZA,
NEW YORK.

HE JOINED THE RESEARCH INST. 1939.
PLEASE ASSIGN CASE NUMBER TO THESE EFFORTS.

--- Page 39 ---

14-00000
Travis 2268
New York
Secret
FROM SUPPORT (TRAVIS) WA
CASE 9145. REUR NYOR 6845. MILLARD ADVISES THAT THE NAME OF THE SISTER WHO MET
MR. ARDLEIGH IS MRS. HELEN B. BLODGETT (MRS. HIGGINS). BIOGRAPHIC DATA ON ARDLEIGH
RECEIVED AND MILLARD IS INITIATING SECURITY CLEARANCE ON HIM. WE WILL ADVISE YOU
AS SOON AS IT IS RECEIVED.
SECRET

--- Page 40 ---

14-00000
August 1957
Travis 2268
CONER FROM SUPPORT (TRAVIS) WA
21187
RE CLOSED CASE 9145. MILLARD OF COVER HAS REQUESTED THAT WE TRY TO DETERMINE
WHEN LEO CHERNE WILL RETURN TO NYC. IT APPEARS THAT OUR BOY, TED FOR WHOM CHERNE
IS PROVIDING COVER, IS BACK IN THE STATES ON LEAVE, AND WHEN HE TRIED TO CONTACT
CHERNE, FOUND THAT HE WAS OUT OF TOWN. WILL YOU PLEASE SEE IF YOU CAN FIND OUT
DESIRED INFORMATION. THANKS.
SECRET

--- Page 41 ---

14-00000
SECRET
CITE NYOR 9236
SUPPORT (TRAVIS) FROM DAME
SECRET
CLOSED CASE 9145
REUR WA 21187
1. MISS KREUGER, LEO CHERNE'S SECRETARY,
ADVISES HE IS EXPECTED BACK IN NYC 19 AUGUST, EXACT HOUR UNKNOWN.
2. ANYTHING FURTHER?
SECRET

--- Page 42 ---

14-00000
19 August 1957
Washington
R. S. Travis 2268
Secret
DAME FROM SUPPORT (TRAVIS) WA 21593
CASE 9145 (CLOSED). REUR NYOR 9236 AND LEO CHERNE.
AT THE PRESENT TIME
THERE IS NOTHING FURTHER TO BE DONE. THANKS FOR YOUR ANSWER.
SECRET

--- Page 4