14-00000
104-10183-10331

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

FILE NO.
TO FILES.
FROM: DIRECTOR
INFO: JAWAVE, CARACAS
REFS: SANTO DOMINGO 2561 (NOT SENT)
SANTO DOMINGO 2554

PERSON IT NOTIFIES:
ACTIONS:
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

ADVANCE COPY
RD COPY

SLAYTED
UNIT
TIME

FILE: c/webess, c/88, cover, 4/385, 6/24, 9/05, 9/882, 4/222, Ekes NT2L, CSR 3
16-10
SECRET 2315422 CITE
16-17

8Ju7 73441
(!~73380)*
SAPOY DYVOUR PBRUMEN DESENSITIZED

OTHER TOPICS MENTIONED IN DISCUSSIONS BETWEEN CUBANS AND IM REPS, AND NOT INCLUDED IN REFERENCE DUE OPERATIONAL CONTEXT, WERE:

A. [PICHI NELLA CASE]. CUBANS TOLD DOMINICANS TO REVIEW ALL THE “COMPANEROS” WHO WERE IN CUBA WITH PICHI AND TO BE CAREFUL WITH AND "VIGILAT [TALL]". THEY ADD THAT [HELLA] MUST MOVE AND AVOID MEETING WITH THE "TIP" ANYMORE. NEXT SENTENCE SAYS, "IMPORTANTE: AJUSTICIAMIENTO DE VICTOR".

VICTOR ALSO REFERRED TO AS AGENT OF CIA AND TRAITOR.
DOMINICANS ALSO DISCUSS "GRUPO FRANCES" WITH CUBANS.
CUBANS SAY THAT THEY BELIEVE GROUP IS COLLABORATING WITH FRENCH AND YANKEES (CIA) BECAUSE OF THE EASE WITH WHICH THEY GET THINGS DONE. CUBANS ADD THAT THESE PEOPLE (GRUPO FRANCES) GOT IN TOUCH WITH HIM THROUGH LUIS GENAD AND FIDELIO DESPRADEL.

C. CUBANS SAY THEY ARE INVESTIGATING CONTACT THAT GENAD (NOT FURTHER IDENTIFIED) MADE A FEW MONTHS AGO IN NEW YORK.

PAGE 2 SANTO DOMINGO 2564 SECRET

WITH MEMBERS MAI (WIDOW. MINAYA). CUBANS ARE VERY WORRIED ABOUT PROBLEM OF GENAD AND WHO TO SUBSTITUTE FOR HIM IN ADIM.

NO INDICATION THAT THIS GENAD IDENTIFIABLE WITH LUIS ESPAILLAT.

FOR DIRECTOR SUGGEST YOU MAY WISH RELAY REFERENCE TO JAWAVE.

3. FOR JAWAVE: REFERENCE WAS LISTING AND DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENTS CONFISCATED FROM [DOMINICAN COMMUNIST COURIER FERNANDO DE LA ROSA BY VENEZUELAN SECURITY OFFICIALS

SECRET
