14-00000

104-10183-10267

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

BACKGROUND

DISSECTOR

FROM SCOIGI

ACTION, INFO: DDP, within, creatis, cotiza, Fi,

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET 342223Z

DIR CITE TEGU 5633

DYBOUR PERUMEN AMIUG

FOR: TEGU 5625 (MCCO)

(65(a)"

FOLLOWING FROM LANGOSCH

1. PESVING CHIEF AND LANGOSCH HAD PRIVATE MEET MORNING 4 SEPT WITH [CHIEF OF STATE COL. OSWALDO LOPEZ]. LANGOSCH BRIEFED ON DGI OPS AND ORGANIZATION, INCLUDING INFO ON MARIO SOSA NAVARRO, MAGLIO MORENO ESPINAL, LUIS BANECAS AND ANTONIO FERNANDEZ IZA BIRLE] WHO USES HONDURAN DOCS IN NAME [MIGUEL NANCIA MADRID] ALSO FURNISHED RECENT TRAVEL LISTS) AND COPY OF PGI (REQUIREMENTS ON

2. [LOPEZ] EXHIBITED KEEN INTEREST, REVIEWED ALL NAMES, SAID HE KNEW SOME PERSONALLY INCLUDING [SOSA], PROMISED PROVIDE ALL INFO ON ALL [PHOTOGRAMS] THROUGH PROVING CHIEF AND EXPRESSED WILLINGNESS LEND FULL COOPERATION. SAID GOVT HAS ABOUT 25 CONIES UNDER ARREST AND HAS HAD TO RELEASE OTHERS FOR LACK OF EVIDENCE BUT

SECRET

PRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

CAPABLE OF MAKING ANALYSIS OF PEOPLE LIKE IF THEY ENTER COUNTRY AND WILLING MAKE THEM AVAILABLE TO [COUNTRY STATIONER]. LOPEZ PRIED LACK OF SECURITY AND COMPETENCE IN HIS GOVT STATING:

A. HE MUST KEEP MATERIAL FURNISHED IN PERSONAL POSSESSION OR OWN HOME BECAUSE OFFICE IS NOT SECURE.

B. MOST PEOPLE IN GOVT INCLUDING THOSE IN INTEL AND POLICE ARE NOT SECURE EITHER BECAUSE SUSCEPTIBLE TO BRIBES OR NOT ABLE SAFEGUARD ANY CONFIDENCES.

C. NOBODY IN GOVT IS TRAINED TO COPE WITH DGI OPS.

D. GENERALLY GOVT PERSONNEL FAR LESS ASTUTE THAN [SOSA] AND OTHER CONIES.

3. [LOPEZ] MENTIONED FELIX OYUELA, CHIEF ARMY INVESTIGATOR, AS ONLY TRUSTED AND REASONABLY COMPETENT PERSON BUT ADDED OYUELA TOO BURDENED WITH OTHER DUTIES. THEREFORE, SEEK SUITABLE CANDIDATE WHOM [LC] WILL PROPOSE TO PESVING CHIEF SO SUCH PERSON COULD BE TRAINED AND DEVOTE TIME TO SUBVERSIVE AND ESPIONAGE MATTERS.

SECRET

CONCERNED LANGOSCH GETTING OUT OF LINE
SECRET
