```markdown
14-00000

(104-10164-10000) 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

19 April 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Bernard BARKER's Contract

1. Mr. Hudson of Finance Division called this date concerning his search for a copy of Bernard BARKER's signed contract with the Agency. He is unable to locate it. Mr. Hudson has talked with Jan in Contract Personnel Office and asked that I check with her re same.

2. I called Jan on X 9179 and asked that she request any information on Bernard BARKER available at Headquarters off in Archives either under his name or his pseudonym Spencer O. Tertiling. She is to make a request on priority basis. Any available information should be provided to this office by 22 April 1974.

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

SECRET

19 April 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Limited Release from Secrecy Agreement--Bernard L. Barker and Eugenio R. Martinez

1. In preparing the letter of 18 April 1974 (copy attached) from the General Counsel to Daniel E. Schultz in response to Mr. Schultz's letter of 9 April, I obtained from Ms. Chris Hopkins, WH/COG (x-1325), copies of (1) a secrecy agreement (in Spanish) by Eugenio Rolando Martinez dated 3 April 1965, (2) an unexecuted contract (an executed copy cannot be located) between the U.S. Government and Mr. Spencer O. Terteling (Bernard L. Barker) and (3) a termination secrecy oath signed by Bernard L. Barker dated 12 August 1966. Copies of those documents are attached.

2. After discussing the matter with Mr. David Phillips, C/WH Division, I prepared the 18 April letter adding the second sentence of the first paragraph at the request of Mr. Joe Skura, AC/WH/CCG (x-1948). After completing the latter, I coordinated it on 15 April 1974 with Mr. Skura and agreed to send him a copy of the final.

3. On 18 April I met with Mr. Schultz. I questioned him as to his intentions regarding the information he was seeking as, in the Agency's view, clearly there is no connection between the Agency's association with Messrs. Barker and Martinez and the subject case. Mr. Schultz explained that he, as the lawyer representing them, was obligated to know what they did for the Agency in order that he can make the determination as to whether it is relevant to the current trial--currently scheduled for 17 June. He mentioned that to date both Messrs. Barker and Martinez had been completely unwilling to discuss any aspect of their duties with the Agency. They had been reluctant to even acknowledge their association with the Agency.

SECRET

CL BY 058473

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

SECRET

their association with the Agency. I explained the Agency's serious reservations concerning the possibility of compromise of agents and operations that are still in being. I explained that the Agency continues to have associations with some of the individuals with whom Messrs. Barker and Martinez had contact during their Agency association. Mr. Schultz seemed to appreciate this problem. Thus, in order to attempt to protect those individuals, I explained that the Agency is currently not in a position to give Messrs. Barker and Martinez blanket authorization to identify individuals with whom they had contact during their Agency association. Mr. Schultz readily acknowledged those conditions.

4. I mentioned to Mr. Schultz that if, as a result of the discussions that are now being authorized, Mr. Schultz believes that certain individuals need to be identified he can make such a narrow request to the Agency at that time. I made no guarantee that we would approve such a request, only that we would consider it in view of (1) the rationale that Mr. Schultz would offer as to his needs, (2) the possibility of publication, (3) the damage to current operations, and (4) the precedent in terms of weakening the confidence of current and potential Agency relationships.

J. EDWIN DIETEL
Assistant General Counsel

OLC
D/Security
AC/WH/COG

SECRET

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

18 April 1974

Daniel E. Schultz, Esq.
Schultz & Overby
1990 M Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20036

Dear Mr. Schultz:

Re: Defendants Bernard L. Barker and Eugenio
R. Martinez, in the case of United States v.
Ehrlichman, et al., Criminal No. 74-116, U.S.
District Court for the District of Columbia

In response to your letter to me of 9 April, this letter will serve to authorize Messrs. Barker and Martinez, pursuant to their security agreements with this Agency, to discuss with you their employment with this Agency. This authorization does not include, however, the identification of individuals with which Messrs. Barker and Martinez had association or contact in conjunction with their duties for this Agency.

You recognize that during those conversations some information may be revealed that is classified. As a result, it is herein agreed that you will not reveal any information concerning the employment by this Agency of either Mr. Barker or Mr. Martinez without the prior written approval of the Central Intelligence Agency. I appreciate your cooperation in this matter and acknowledgment of the terms of this agreement.

Sincerely,

John S. Warner
General Counsel

ACKNOWLEDGED,
Daniel E. Schultz

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000

SECRET

18 April 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Request from OGC for Signed Copy of Bernard BARKER's Contract

1. On 18 April 1974 Mr. Dietl of OGC asked if I had been able to locate a signed copy of Bernard Barker's contract which we were unable to locate a few days ago. The answer was no. I took advantage of Pete Palmer's presence at Hqs. on TDY to ascertain whether a signed copy of BARKER's contract could possibly be at Station WH/Miami. Pete said with certainty there was no signed copy at Station WH/Miami since much of the material at the Station had been destroyed. Also, since BARKER was terminated in mid-1966, the Station file should have been transferred to Hqs. back then.

2. I passed the foregoing information to Mr. Dietl who simply asked that I double check with WH/Contracts and the Contract Personnel Division for same which I promised to do and advise.

Chris Hopkins
WHD Task Force
Watergate

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000

SECRET

15 April 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Information in re Watergate Passed to Mr. Dietl of OLC

1. On 15 April 1974 I gave to Mr. Dietl of OLC the following documents which he requested:

a. Copy of AMSNAP-3's Secrecy Agreement dated 3 April 1965, which I translated for him verbally at the desk.

b. Copy of Termination Secrecy Oath by Bernard Barker dated 12 August 1966. Also a General Release signed by Barker 12 August 1966.

Chris Hopkins
WH/COG/US

201-981689
801-280037

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED INTERNAL USE ONLY CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional) Beard Buhr. /Helms Statement

FROM: DDO

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)

1. Ju Scots Bore che

2. DDO

3.

4.

5.

6.

EXTENSION NO. DATE OFFICER'S INITIALS RECEIVED FORWARDED DATE

11 March 1974

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

1. We went through Buskers 201 again plus all other material provided to The 7th floor on their care and Cannot find any tati- mente hich could con- pore serve as Helms testimony in question

2. This is also being funt to Send Breckenridge,

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL USE ONLY UNCLASSIFIED

--- Page 8 ---

14-00000

11 March 1974

SUBJECT: Bernard Barker

1. POA granted 16 April 1959. Terminated amicably 31 July 1966. Review of Barker's file does not reveal that he had any association with gambling interests. Mr. Helms might have confused Barker with Frank Sturgis who allegedly had Mafia connections. Please note Mr. Sturgis was never associated in any manner with this Agency.

2. Miss Christine Hopkins has discussed Mr. Helms' testimony, which appeared in the "Washington Post" on 11 March 1974, with Mr. Fred Evans, Office of Security, Mr. Scott Breckenridge, Inspector General's Office, and Mr. Lyle Miller, Office of Legislative Counsel. Mr. Sturbitts received a call from Mr. Miller early on 11 March 1974 and referred Mr. Miller to Miss Hopkins who subsequently talked to him.

SECRET

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000

1407 Bredeword c

X 557 X-1407

Bernard Barker-

test. released - Kelvis sail Barker liftr mined connections! mid 60's because of crimin details

66 when he terminated anviably nice

Baker phoned last mite he say wildly indigutans re chemind. associations!

--- Page 10 ---

14-00000

SECRET

CONTACT REPORT

CASE OFFICER: Norris Z. Gervenoi DATE: 11 March 1971

PROJECT: AMABDUCT

AGENT: AMSNAP-3 PLACE:

NARRATIVE FUNDS PASSED: None RECPT RCVD:

1. AMSNAP-3 reported on 11 March 1971 that the charges of sale of narcotics levied on Jorge ALONSO, the son of Guillermo ALONSO Pujol (AMECRU-1), were dropped (no exact date given). Jorge was arrested 21 June, along with forty others and charged with being a top figure in the heroin and cocaine distribution racket.

2. AMSNAP-3 stated that he had talked with a friend of his, Ray BARKER, on the morning of 11 March. BARKER told him that he had spoken to Attorney Miguel SUAREZ. SUAREZ is a law partner of Fernando FREIRE. FREIRE told SUAREZ that Jorge ALONSO had been released because all charges stemming from the 21 June arrest were dropped by the authorities. Therefore, there will be no trial.

3. CO Comment: It is a sad day when justice can be bought by the likes of ALONSO. The little man loses again because if he were charged with an offense 1/10th the magnitude of Jorge ALONSO's, he would be behind bars for a long time, and to make it worse, Jorge ALONSO can now go back ruining lives.

--- Page 11 ---

14-00000

SECRET

10 April 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Personnel

ATTENTION: Mr. Paul Wilson

SUBJECT: Bernard L. Barker

1. Reference is made to our discussions regarding the letter written to this Agency by Mrs. Edwin T. Moffett in regard to her son's marriage to Subject's daughter.

2. As discussed with you, Mrs. Moffett was telephonically contacted and was advised that the Agency could not give her any information regarding Subject's possible employment with the Agency. Mrs. Moffett understood this and did not attempt to argue the point. Mrs. Moffett also was advised that her fears regarding the possible kidnaping of her daughter-in-law were not based on any known incident.

3. Mrs. Moffett was also advised that she should contact her daughter-in-law and son in order to get more information regarding the daughter-in-law's background. Mrs. Moffett said that she had only met the daughter-in-law for a brief time and was not able to ask all the necessary questions.

SECRET

--- Page 12 ---

14-00000

SECRET

4. Mrs. Moffett was satisfied with our call and there was no indication that she would pursue this further with any government agency or Congressman.

Steven L. Kuhn
Assistant Deputy Director of Security
for Personnel Security

SECRET

--- Page 13 ---

14-00000

24 MAR 1970

In response to your letter of March 10, we wish to advise we are unable to provide you with any information concerning the employment of Mr. Bernard L. Barker.

With regard to your concern for the safety of your daughter-in-law, we are unaware of any cases of a former resident being kidnapped and returned to Cuba. Furthermore, since it is assumed Mrs. Moffett is a U. S. citizen, such a possibility seems remote to justify the apprehension expressed by her family.

--- Page 14 ---

14-00000

PERSONNEL DEPT.
C.I.A.
WASHINGTON, D.C.

I CONTACTED THE FBI AND THEY SAID I SHOULD WRITE YOU FOR THIS INFORMATION.

HAS BERNARD L. BARKER OF HAVANA,CUBA, CHICAGO AND MIAMI, FLORIDA (5229 N.W. 14th St.) EVER BEEN IN THE EMPLOY OF THE C.I.A IN THE ABOVE PLACES?

OUR SON MARRIED HIS DAUGHTER (MARIAELENA) IN CALIFORNIA AND WE KNOW NOTHING OF BACKGROUND....ONLY WHAT SHE TOLD US.

IF YOU CAN CONFIRM ANY OF THE ABOVE OR GIVE US ANY INFORMATION ON HER FAMILY, I WOULD APPRECIATE IT. MARIAELENA SAID SHE CAME TO THIS COUNTRY AT AGE 13 TEN YEARS AGO.

IS SHE IN ANY DANGER OF BEING KIDNAPPED BACK TO CUBA AS SHE AND HER FAMILY BELIEVE COULD HAPPEN?

SINCE SHE SAID HER FATHER HAD BEEN WITH THE C.I.A, I FELT THIS WAS THE FIRST PLACE TO START TO FIND OUT ABOUT HER.

THANK YOU FOR ANYTHING YOU CAN DO FOR ME.

MARCH 10, 1970

SINCERELY YOURS,

MRS. EDWIN T. MOFFETT
2931 CANTER STREET
BETHLEHEM, PA. 18017

P.B. I 'M CONCERNED OVER MARIAELENA'S LARGE COLLECTION OF PRICELESS JEWELS. SHE TOLD US THEY WERE SMUGGLED INTO THE U.S.A. OF (OUT OF CUBA) WHICH ONLY REACHED HERE BECAUSE THE BALANCE WERE STOLEN (FROM THEM).

I UNDERSTAND THIS WILL BE COMPLETELY CONFIDENTIAL, AM I CORRECT?

--- Page 15 ---

14-00000

BARKER - MAR

Collazo

SRY
11/5/67

--- Page 16 ---

14-00000

FORM G 325 A (11-1-66)
BIOGRAPHIC INFORMATION
(FAMILY NAME)
Barker
ALL OTHER NAMES USED
None
SPOUSE (IF NONE, SO STATE)
Yes
(FIRST NAME)
Clara
(MIDDLE NAME)
Elena
MALE
FEMALE
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
Immigration and Naturalization Service
FORM APPROVED
BUDGET BUREAU NO. 43-R436
ALIEN REGISTRATION NO.
(IF ANY)
12 418081
BIRTHDATE (MO-DAY-YR) NATIONALITY SOCIAL SECURITY NO.
8-12-1917 Cuban 262-68-6012
CITY AND COUNTRY OF BIRTH
Havana, Cuba
(FOR WIFE GIVE MAIDEN NAME)
FAMILY NAME
Barker
FORMER SPOUSES (IF NONE, SO STATE)
FAMILY NAME (FOR WIFE, GIVE MAIDEN NAME)
Herrera
FATHER
FAMILY NAME
Jimenez
MOTHER (MAIDEN NAME)
FAMILY NAME
Collazo
FIRST NAME
Alberto
FIRST NAME
Cuban
BIRTHDATE CITY & COUNTRY OF BIRTH DATE OF MARRIAGE PLACE OF MARRIAGE
Bernard 3-17-17-Havana, Cuba 6/4/1945 Havana
DATE AND PLACE OF MARRIAGE DATE AND PLACE OF TERMINATION OF MARRIAGE
March 1935, NDI
FIRST NAME DATE, CITY AND COUNTRY OF BIRTH (IF KNOWN)
Amado
America 2-24-1895, Havana, Cuba
RESIDENCE LAST FIVE YEARS. LIST PRESENT ADDRESS FIRST.
STREET AND NUMBER
CITY
532 Westmored & Chicago, Illinois
5000 NW 5 St.
420 W. L7* Ave
Miami, Florida
EMPLOYMENT LAST FIVE YEARS. (IF NONE, SO STATE)
FULL NAME AND ADDRESS OF EMPLOYER
Housewife
00.370) A7 Holli
deko housewife.
PROVINCE OR STATE
FROM: MONTH YEAR
125 Cot.
Augusta, Ga. U.S.A.
TO: MONTH YEAR
U.S.A. 4 July 1966
U.3.4. 2 Sept. 1903
LIST PRESENT EMPLOYMENT FIRST.
CITY AND COUNTRY OF RESIDENCE
deceased
FROM
MONTH
YEAR
PRESENT TIME
1956 Mig:|
Aug. 17 1952
May. 16 1903
OCCUPATION
Bayer
TO
MONTH
YEAR
PRESENT TIME
Sept 196
July 192
LIST ANY FOREIGN RESIDENCE OF MORE THAN ONE YEAR (IF NOT SHOWN ABOVE):
COUNTRY
Cuba
FROM
YEAR
1946
TO
YEAR
1960
LAST OCCUPATION ABROAD (IF NOT SHOWN ABOVE)
THIS FORM IS SUBMITTED IN CONNECTION WITH APPLICATION FOR:
NATURALIZATION
2-8-1967
ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS OTHER (SPECIFY)
1. 1989
-10 MAR 1987
PENALTIES: SEVERE PENALTIES ARE PROVIDED BY LAW FOR KNOWINGLY AND WILLFULLY FALSIFYING
OR CONCEALING A MATERIAL FACT.

--- Page 17 ---

14-00000

FORM G.325 A REV. 1-1-67
BIOGRAPHIC INFORMATION
(FAMILY NAME)
BARKER
ALL OTHER NAMES USED
None
FATHER
(FIRST NAME)
BERNARD
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
Immigration and Naturalization Service
(MIDDLE NAME)
LEON
MALE
FEMALE
FORM APPROVED
BUDGET BUREAU NO. 43-R436
482-P
ALIEN REGISTRATION NO.
(IF ANY)
A 14 409 090
BIRTHDATE (MO.DAY-YR) NATIONALITY SOCIAL SECURITY NO.
(IF ANY)
3-17-1917 Cuban 213-07-0844
CITY AND COUNTRY OF BIRTH
HAVANA CUBA
(FOR WIFE GIVE MAIDEN NAME)
FAMILY NAME
BARKER
FORMER SPOUSES (IF NONE, SO STATE)
FAMILY NAME (FOR WIFE, GIVE MAIDEN NAME)
1-2-1890, COLUMBIA TENN.
MOTHER (MAIDEN NAME)
TERRY
SPOUSE (IF NONE, SO STATE)
CLARA
FIRST NAME
FERNANDEZ
FIRST NAME
ALICIA
BIRTHDATE CITY & COUNTRY OF BIRTH DATE OF MARRIAGE PLACE OF MARRIAGE
8-12-1917 HAVANA CUBA 6/4/1945 HAVANA
NONE
FIRST NAME
BIRTHDATE
DATE AND PLACE OF MARRIAGE DATE AND PLACE OF TERMINATION OF MARRIAGE
-201-251689)
APPLICANT'S RESIDENCE LAST FIVE YEARS. LIST PRESENT ADDRESS FIRST.
STREET AND NUMBER
CITY
9320 UN 20ST MIAMI
2552W.SU4452
44OON.W.5 ST
42 UNW WN AVE
10 MONTH
PRESENT TIME
YEAR
2-1.67
69
PROVINCE OR STATE
COUNTRY
FROM
MONTH
YEAR
U.S.A.
3-2.
CHICAGO the
6-1
7
66
HIGH
ELA
USA.
7-1
Mease
ELA
7-1
6-1
7-1
BARKER
APPLING ANELDIN
FULL NAME AND ADDRESS UP EMPLOYER
SELF EMPLOYED
BEANARD
#7-3-17)
AFLUVIRINT PINST.
OCCUPATION
MINTI
TO
YEAR
MARTH
PRESENT TIME
ME RAMANE Comp 2402W.NORTHAM CHILE Ass Week 7-18-66
1-15 40 7:15 66
LIST ANY FOREIGN RESIDENCE OF MORE THAN ONE YEAR AT SOVET
LAST OCCUPATION ABROAD (1
10
(Bentay
RIH) FOAR
SAVAGER
egonia
7 1946 /
MAVANA
Pro Pont A IN SELA184 WITH APLICATION FOR
NATURALIZATION
2-8-1967
1960 HAVANA
JAUJINTMENT OF STATUS OTHER (SPECIFY)
1. 1989
-10 MAR 1987
FOR IN AND WILLFULLY PALO
BR SONGBALING A MATERIAL PART,
EEL

--- Page 18 ---

14-00000

INDEX: YES NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
X-REF TO FILE NO.
FILE RID RET. TO BRANCH
DESTROY SIG.
FROM ImWave
ACTION WH/C8
INFO
ADVANCE COPY
RID COPY
ISSUED SLATTED TUBED
SECRET 1522352
AN
DIR CITE WAVE 9534
TYPIC
ABSTRACT
REF [UFGW] 4926
REQUEST AMCLATTER/1 POA BE EXTENDED THROUGH 1 APR 65. POUCHING PRQ PART II.

SECRET

--- Page 19 ---

14-00000

DISPATCH

Deputy Chief, WH/SA

Chief of Station, JMWAVE

SUBJECT Operational TYPIC

AMCLATTER/1 Progress Report for February 1965

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

Action Required: None, For Your Information.

I. OPERATIONAL CHRONOLOGY

A. During the period under review AMCLATTER/1 was transferred from the PW Branch to the CI Branch for future handling. Subject's files were turned over to CI on 27 January 1965 and he was informed by his PW case officer of his proposed transfer at a meeting on 2 February. A subsequent meeting was scheduled for 8 February with AMCLATTER/1 and the PW case officer at which time the latter introduced him to the CI case officer. Subject appeared to be pleased with this turn of events expressing the wish that he could be put to more frequent use and be given a heavier work load. He said that he enjoyed his 2½ year association with his previous case officer but looked forward to getting into a new line of activity, preferably some type of PM activity or investigative work which he claims to enjoy as a result of his previous police experience in Cuba. Subject was told by the CI case officer that his duties would remain essentially the same as they had been and that he should continue his coverage of exile activities with emphasis on any rumors of impending exile raids on Cuba.

B. On 18 February Subject was introduced to AMBLINK/1 and was told that AMBLINK/1 would keep in daily touch with him either by telephone or by personal meeting. Subject and AMBLINK/1 know one another from the time when they both were working in Cuba and both

Distribution:
A = DO/WH/BA

SECRET

--- Page 20 ---

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

SECRET

UFGA-20209

seem pleased with the current arrangement whereby they will be in contact with one another. In addition to this daily contact, meetings are held with Subject and (AMBLINK/1 about once a week by the CI case officer to discuss Subject's reporting, as well as any difficulties he may have encountered or guidance he may need. For all practical purposes, however, AMCLATTER/1 is being handled by AMBLINK/1 Subject knows nothing about AMBLINK/1's other operational duties and contacts, and the latter has been instructed to limit his discussions with AMCLATTER/1 to any mutual business at hand. AMCLATTER/1 knows AMBLINK/1 by true name (which he knew in Cuba) and has his home telephone number. During the absence of (AMBLINK/1 from the area the CI case officer will meet directly with Subject.

II. PRODUCTION

Subject provided a number of useful reports during the period under review mainly concerned with proposed MIRR bombing missions over Cuba and details concerning the ransacking of AMBIDDY/1's house. The following disseminations were made as a result of Subject's production:

A. UFG 6635 (WAVE 7900; 3 February 1965) from Frank Fiorini: Alleged abortive Air Raid over Cuba by the MIRR.

B. WAVE 8261 (Rybat; 13 February 1965): Ransacking of AMBIDDY/1's house.

C. (UFG-6710 (WAVE 8326; 16 February 1965) from Frank Fiorini: Planned Air Strike Against Havana by the MIRR.

D. WAVE 8419 (Rybat; 17 February 1965): Additional information on Ransacking of AMBIDDY/1's House.

E. UFG-6727 (WAVE 8394; 17 February 1965) from Frank Fiorini: Decision of Orlanda Bosch Avila to Use Cuban Pilot on MIRR's Air Strike of Havana.

F. WAVE 8521 (Rybat; 20 February 1965): Additional information on Ransacking of AMBIDDY/1's House.

G. UTG-8747 (WAVE 8618; 23 February 1965) from Frank Fiorini and Bill Johnson: Insistence of Orlanda Bosch Avila that the MIRR Bomb Havana.

III. FINANCES

Subject was paid his February salary in the amount of $433.77. (This amount is arrived at after withholding his income tax from $600.)

IV. FUTURE PLANS

AMBLINK/1 will continue to contact Subject on a daily basis either by telephone or by personal meetings and will see that Subject's reports are promptly relayed to the CI case officer. Subject has been instructed to continue his coverage of exile motivation in the area with emphasis on prompt reporting of any impending exile raids on Cuba. Subject will also continue to report in writing any conversations that he has with Cuban exiles who appear of operational interest and will explore his wide array of contacts for any information that may lead to the identification of Cuban intelligence assets operating in the area. In this connection Subject is currently exploring a lead involving two Cuban mulatto women who allegedly have hit the bolita numbers frequently (six or seven times) and for large sums of money. Subject, who has a theory that Fidel Castro may be using the bolita racket to fund agents in the U.S., is trying to learn the identities of the two mulattos.

SECRET

CONTINUED

--- Page 21 ---

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

SECRET

UFGA 20209

has been cautioned not to delve too deeply in this matter however since he may become involved with local underworld elements who may take drastic action against him in the belief that he is working for either the local ODENVY or the police. Subject said that he is well aware of this possibility and is making very discreet inquiries with the assistance of certain friends (Cuban ex-policemen) who are bolita runners and who know that he has no interest in their bolita activities per se except to learn the identities of the two Cuban mulatto women. Subject said that his friends, in addition to possibly helping him, would like to know the identities of the two women since they would then play the same number as the two women and make some money on their own.

Chester R. Men duik
ANDREW K. REUTEMAN

CONTINUED

--- Page 22 ---

14-00000

DATE
20 NOV 1970

TO DIRECTOR

FROM JMASH

ACTION: WH 9

INFO: DDP, COP, ADDP/A, S/C 2

BE Filing (check one):
No CS Record Value. Destroy.
RI e this copy as indicated
Branch copy filed as indicated
RE Indexing (check one):
Marked
None required

Signature:

PRIORITY DIR CITE MASH 1935

JAZNET

NO NIACT

REF TRAV 2158 (IN 48700)

1. STRUGGLE UNDERWAY BETWEEN CIVIL AND MIL ELEMENTS OF [AMRASP]. MARTIN ELENA HAS REJECTED [AMHANK] THESIS THAT ESTADO MAYOR IS SUBJECT TO [AMCIGAR], WHEREAS [TWICKER] FEELS NECESSARY ESTABLISH PRINCIPLE THAT MIL POWER DERIVES FROM CIVIL.

2. AS COMPROMISE WE MIGHT MAKE SELECTION ESTADO MAYOR SUBJECT TO [AMCIGAR] APPROVAL AND PERMIT SUBORDINATE NOMINATIONS, PROMOTIONS, ETC. TO BE FILLED BY ESTADO MAYOR ON INDEPENDENT BASIS.

3. [AMHAWK] POINTS OUT THAT EVEN MARTIN ELENA REFERS TO GOUDIE AS "MINISTER OF WAR" WHEREAS GOUDIE MAIN FUNCTION IS LIAISON BETWEEN MASH REPS AND MIL ELEMENTS. IN RECENT TALK WITH [ANGLATTER] SAN JEN19 ACCUSED GOUDIE OF "SABOTAGING MIL EFFORT" AND OF PUTTING LOYALTY TO [AMWAIL] ABOVE [AMRABP] IN KERESTS. WHETHER TRUE OR NOT FACT IS THAT AT LEAST ON CIVIL SIDE GOUDIE IS BECOMING HEATEDLY CONTROVERSIAL.

4. FIRM ESTABLISHMENT OF CIVIL ACCENDENCY IN [AMRASP] (PER USA PATTERN) WOULD GO FAR TOWARD RESTORING [CUNKSET] FOCUS. REQUEST HQS CONCUR.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

RIPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

--- Page 23 ---

14-00000

Things turned out very well for I was invited to a small dinner party last night. Ernesto was there, and he freely brought out the subject personally with me, as though he wanted me to know. He expects the NYT man--HARPER--to return from Miami this week (I do not know if he meant back to Washington or to New York). and something to appear in the paper some time after that.

As I told you, the NYT is convinced there are three related events:

a) The Watergate affaire.

b) The break-in at the Chilean Embassy.

c) An attempt to "heat up" Ellsberg on the Capitol grounds.

These three events, in turn, were carried out by a single group of Cubans either recruited or in the pay of the Agency. In fact, they think that Frank GONZALES is another one of the people that I mentioned to you who were actually in the Watergate, but managed to escape. In other words, this group have links not only with the Agency, but also with the GOP...perhaps separately, but with similar objectives. A very serious charge. That is precisely the connection that the NYT wants to establish. The NYT man claims--according to Ernesto--to have a photo of Manuel GIRERGA, a Cuban who is a White House assistant for Spanish-speaking affairs--and Bernard BARKER, who they think is the key man ("A CIA agent recruiter"), together.

HARPER also visited Felipe PAZOS, a well-known Cuban economist who, at present, is with the Inter-American Development Bank. Harper might have also seen some Chilean dips, but this is only an inference on my part.

The other birds on the list that I gave you were specifically tied to the Ellsberg case. They were brought up from Miami--armed--to physically disrupt Ellsberg's appearance before a Congressional Committee. The Cubans were unable to get to him, but did fight with some of his supporters, who were arrested. The Cubans were not. Official protection is what they are looking for in this particular case.

--- Page 24 ---

14-00000

John V. HANNON (T)

Harold V. KARABLY (P)

1971 - Retired as Staff employee

1971 - June - Picked up as contract employee by FR Division

1972 - June 30 - that contract terminated.

1972 - June 30 - retired under CIARDS.

1972 - June - new contract with FR Division as a retired annuitant. Came aboard as independent contractor.

1973 - 30 June - that contract was terminated.

FR Division has the following address for HANNON, but does not know the date of the info;
150 Ridgewood Drive
San Rafael, Calif 94901
Tele: 454-1322

--- Page 25 ---

14-00000

INDEX: YES NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
X-REF TO FILE NO.
FILE RID RET. TO BRANCH
DESTROY SIG.
FROM ImWave
ACTION WH/C-8
INFO
ADVANCE COPY
RID COPY
ISSUED SLATTED TUBED

SECRET 191802Z CITE JMWAVE 0947

MEXICO CITY INFO DIRECTOR

TYPIC AMCLATTER

REFERENCE: MEXICO CITY 7348 /IN 18355)

NO TRACES JMWAVE NOR LOCAL ODENVY NAMES GIVEN REF.

NAMM SECRET

--- Page 26 ---

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL
CONTROLLED DISSEM

Cuba
Photographs of Grain Silos at Ensenada de Guanabacoa, Regla, Havana

1962 - December 1965

9 March 1966

United States, Miami
(4 March 1966)
UFG-8016

Angel M. Maceda Sanchez (A 14 088 180) a Cuba refugee who was a welder and mechanic employed by the Cuban Ministry of Construction and participated in the construction of silos at Ensenada de Guanabacoa, Regla, Havana. Maceda departed by air from Cuba on 16 December 1965 and arrived in the United States that same day.

In 1962 the Government of Cuba drew up plans for the construction of a grain silo complex at Ensenada de Guanabacoa, Regla, Havana on property adjoining an edible oils manufacturing plant which had a daily capacity for processing 300 tons of soy beans. Actual construction of the silo complex started on 3 November 1964 following the September arrival of a number of Polish technical personnel who were to supervise the construction.

The silo complex consists of 36 silos, each 37 feet high and six feet (as received) in diameter. The complex is arranged into two groups of 18 silos each with a building to be built between the two groups. The top of the silos will be inter-connected by a railway. In addition a system of tubing and pipes will interconnect the silos at the bottom.

On deposit in the Graphics Register are four photographs of the silo complex under construction which were probably taken about December 1965. Copies of these photographs may be obtained by requesting the following control numbers:

Maceda, who is not a highly qualified technician,