104-10163-10066 - 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

Former Cominte Havana Station

able personal courage, good security and common sense. In my mind he is the ideal type of Latin American agent. It will be a real loss to the Agency if we lose sight or contact with Adolfo. I have set few men more dedicated and more loyal.

5. Ramon USATEGUI Lezama. AMFAN-3. Recruited by #PAN-2 and so close to each other that we referred to them as the "Gold Dust Twins." Ramon was in the shipping business in Havana and eventually had to leave. He lost his home, cars, furnishings, etc. His firm is now planning to send him to Nicaragua, and I have recommended him to the Nicaragua desk for rental. He has all the qualities ascribed to Adolfo SAN PELAYO (see above) except that he has never been an American citizen. He speaks excellent English. He is dedicated, courageous and most anxious to maintain contact with the Agency. It will be our loss if this is not done.

6. Bernard L. Barker. AMCLATTER-1. Wife: Clara. Barker is a Cuban-American. Ex-Captain in the U.S.A.F. See PRQ and 201 for full bio data. I recruited Barker in 1959, and he served faithfully until we had to exfiltrate him sometime in 1960. He recruited a number of valuable agents for the Station (including AMCLATTER-5, which see) and had an amazing encyclopedic knowledge of Cuban persons, events and contacts in all walks of life. He was a boxing manager and knew intimately all Cuban personalities engaged in the sporting industry. He had a puppy-dog loyalty to his case officers and to the Agency. His biggest weakness was his lack of discretion. He was such a loyal American (actually if not technically) that he would fight at the drop of a hat if anyone cast aspersions on the United States or its leaders. In the atmosphere of Castro's Cuba I might say that that was quite often. We are in the process of helping him recover his lost American citizenship. When the Station reopens I would certainly recommend that we continue to maintain contact with Barker. If nothing else he would make a wonderful leg-man for the Chief of Station. His wife is an attractive Cuban gal who is bi-lingual and as belligerently "American" as he is.

7. [Manolo VEGA Abril.] I met Manolo through Jorge ALONSO PROL (now a prisoner in Cuba as a result of the 17th of April invasion). Manolo is working for us now in Miami, and I presume we have full bio data on him. Manolo's family owned, along with Republic Steel, the big steel plant in Havana which was nationalized by the Castro regime (Cia. Antillana de Acero, S.A.). Manolo has a brother, Benigno, who would also be worth cultivating. Through his business and family connections Manolo knew a great many people of operational interest. One of his friends was David SALVADOR, although Manolo did not share SALVADOR's political thinking (extreme left and anti-American). Manolo was as objective a reporter as I have ever encountered among Latin American agents.
