AARAAN

104-10438-10071 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

(When Filled In)

FIP CONTROL NO. (Filled in by IP/CFS)
HM-788
204921

HOLMES, RUSSELL. B
CIVEXO
EXT. 1253

SECRET

INITIALS
RCD.
FWD.

TUBE CT5
E2 IMPDET CL BY 004108

DOCUMENT SERVICE REQUEST

DATE OF REQUEST 15 SEP 1977

BRANCH DT-6
ROOM NO.
PHONE NO.

TO:
IP/CFS

REQUESTER
IP/CFS
DT-6
DATE

INSTRUCTIONS

1. Use this form to request files and/or documents
from IP/CFS. (Not to be used in lieu of Form
362.)

2. Include badge number and tube station in "FROM"
block if gummed Label has not been issued.

3. Indicate type of charge:
☑ Temporary
☐ Permanent

4. Indicate source of reference:
☐ Document reference from IP/MI.
☐ Document reference from source other
than IP/MI.

SUBJECT (must be furnished)
DIMITROV, Dimitur Adamov

HQ FILE NUMBER

DOCUMENT SYMBOL AND NUMBER
ATHE 3200 (IN 46672)
ATHE 4821 (IN 30224)
ATHE 5150 (IN 36130)
FRAN 2910 (IN 36297)
ATHE 5205 (IN 37092)
ATHE 5282 (IN 37839)

DOCUMENT DATE
25.10.50
22.3.51
20.4.51
21.4.51
25.4.51
29.4.51

DISPOSITION OF REQUEST
(To be completed by IP/CFS)
☐ NO RECORD IN IP/FILES
☑ Copy May Be Obtained
In Cable Archives

FORM 2-77 1870
USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

SECRET
E-2, IMPDET CL. BY: 062147

CONFIDENTIAL
(When Filled In)
REQUEST FOR DISSEMINATION CHANGE OR CABLE REFERENCE SERVICE
16 SEP 1977

TO: CABLE SECRETARIAT BRANCH, OC
CABLE REFERENCE SECTION
IA-53 HQS. EXT. 6159, TUBE ES-6

HOLMES RUSSELL B HM-788
CI/EXO 204921
EXT. 1253 TUBE CT5

SECRET E2 IMPDET CL BY 004108

It is requested that the dissemination of

IN/DIR NUMBER STATION NUMBER

be changed as indicated.

☐ ADD:
☐ Recall copies from:
☐ Change action from: To:
Authorized by:
NAME (type or print) ext.
In coordination with:
NAME (type or print) EXT.

☑ Please furnish one copy of the cable described.
☐ I have ☐ have not ☑ made inquiry of the CS Records control system.

IN/DIR NUMBER STATION NUMBER DATE SUBJECT
IN 46672 ATHE 3200 25.10.50 KELLY
IN 30224 ATHE 4821 22.3.51
IN 36130 ATHE 5150 20.4.51
IN 36297 FRAN 2910 21.4.51
IN 37092 ATHE 5205 25.4.51
IN 37839 ATHE 5282 29.4.51

SIGNATURE

FORM 1604 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS
11-72 CONFIDENTIAL E-2, IMPDET CL. BY: 007622

13-00000
September 1944
After emerging briefly from hiding in September 1944, DIMITROV again went
underground engaging in anti-Communist activities, touring various towns
and cities (including sections of Yugoslavia and Macedonia) and urging
members of the Agrarian Party to take positive action against the Commu-
nists.
104 CAGWU, dated 4 October 1950; Memorandum for the Record, 9.5.51

13-00000
1943
DIMITROV claimed he began underground anti-Fascist activities in 1943 in
Macedonia and to have worked closely with Dr. George M. DIMITROV (who
headed the left-wing of the Agrarian Party known as Pladne) during this
time.
104 CAGWU, dated 4 October 1950; Memorandum for the Record, dated 9.5.51

13-00000
October 1946
DIMITROV arrested by the police. He believes the reason he was not exe-
cuted was that the communists wanted to use him as a witness against
Nikola PETKOV.
104 CAGWU, dated 4 October 1950; Memorandum for the record, 9.5.51

13-00000
23 July 1947
He escaped to Greece.
Memorandum for the Record, 9.5.51

13-00000
30 April 1950 (date of information)
The Bulgarians at Lavrion Camp established a new political organization
known as the "P. D. Petkov Organization". The member, who are listed
in the protocol (attached to the report), have deserted the Bulgarian
Agrarian Party in an effort to retain their "pure" agrarian character.
In the opinion of the Petkov Organization, the Agrarian Party has been
penetrated by the leftists. Protocol signed on 30 April 1950.
DIMITROV's name appears as a member of the Board of Control.
SO 48993, 16 September 1950

13-00000
October 1950
The QKSTAIR Field Chief learned of DIMITROV through the local peripheral
reporting officer and contacted him covertly. DIMITROV made six agents
immediately available for infiltration operations.
ATHE 3200 (IN 46672), 25.10.50; Memorandum for the Record, 9.5.51

13-00000
OCTOBER 1950
Early in October 1950, DIMITROV visited the Lavrion Camp where he met
with a number of his Bulgarian friends and advised them that he had been
given a "charter and instructions", by certain members of the American
Embassy, to form a committee of five members for the planning and execu-
tion of a fight for the liberation of Bulgaria. This committee, according
to DIMITROV, would be established in Athens and would cooperate with other
similar committees which have already been formed in France, Germany, and
other countries. The committee would later expand to 20 members and would
establish a so-called "Democratic Agrarian Bloc". Recruits would come from
among the members and sympathizers of the Bulgarian Democratic Party
(Moushynov) and from the Gichev Agrarians.
Eligible Bulgarian emigres
would come to Greece from Western Europe to assist in the work, and pro-

13-00000
minent members of the Gichev Agrarians and of the Democratic Party would
be assisted in escaping to Greece (presumably from Bulgaria) to join the
organization.
DIMITROV listed the organization's tasks as follows:
a. Intelligence activity in Bulgaria.
b. Organization of an underground resistance
movement in Bulgaria, and
c. Organization of sabotage activity against
Bulgaria.
DIMITROV revealed that he was the president of the organization.
DIMIRTOV took frequent occasion to mention that the
committee had its headquarters in the American Embassy where he has a
room assigned for his own use. He also stated that the commitee maintains
offices at 13 Patission Street, 7th floor, rooms 2-4, and there are already
working at this address eight Bulgarian-speaking Americans. He also stated
that his office has two Bulgarian typewriters and a car with US license
plates.
SODB 31992, 14 December 1950

23 October 1950
provisional
EE Division requests an operational clearance for DIMITROV.
Memorandum for II/OS, dated 23 October 1950.

13-00000
1 November 1950
DIMITROV again visited the Lavrion Camp to inform his recruits that they
would shortly be moved to a pleasant home in Athens which the Americans
were repainting for the purpose. On the occasion of this visit, the re-
cruits were divided into three groups, as follows:
a. a group of 10 men to specialize in intelligence;
b. a group of 6 men to be trained in radio in Germany
c. a group of 15 men to specialize in sabotage.
The source of the information contained in the SODB 31992 described
DIMITROV as "an unprincipled opportunist and Greek agent".
SODB 31992, 14.12.50

During this period of time, DIMITROV was the principal agent
in an ill-fated operation which resulted in a major expose and
trial in Sofia during 1951. The agents used were those selec-
ted by DIMITROV, at least one of whom was probably an
operative of the Bulgarian Militia and acted as the betrayer
of his colleagues.

ATHE 4788 (IN 29602), March, 1951

13-00000
23 January 1951
Chief of EE/1 requested that the attached Provisional Operational
Clearance be approved for Dimitri A. DIMITROV. He is
to be used as a contract agent in Greece for political, psychological,
and guerrilla warfare operations under Project QKSTAIR.
In view of the fact that recuritment of Bulgarian
agents who are scheduled shortly to begin covert training must be
accomplished through Mr. DIMITROV, his clearance is needed immediately.
Memorandum for EAD, dated 23 January 1951.

25 January 1951
Frank G. WISNER, ADPC, approved a Provisional Operational Clearance for
a period of ninety days subject to renewal if the full clearance has not
been granted.
Memorandum for EE/1, dated 25 January 1951

13-00000
3 March 1951
DIMITROV signed a memorandum certifying that he had received three hundred
dollars from Lawrence F. MacBRIDE, literary agent, representing a sum
paid for a complete and unabridged option on the use and possible publica-
tion of three books written by me and brought to Mr. MacBRIDE, in Greek
translation, by [ ] who acted in this instance purely informally and
as a friend. The option is effective as of this date for a period of
six calendar months.
Memorandum dated 3 March 1951 [attachment to SGAA 24772, n.d. not in
file]

13 March 1951
Operational Clearance issued to permit the use of DIMITROV's services
as "a contractual agent in Greece engaged in political, psychological,
and guerrilla warfare operations under project QKSTAIR.
Memorandum for Chief, EE/1, dated 13 March 1951

13-00000
22 March 1951
QKSTAIR reported that it was considering breaking off association with
DIMITROV because he had become too unpopular and dictatorial and self-
important. There were also indications of serious misappropriation of
funds (NB: This charge was later proven false - see document)
ATHE 4821 (IN 30224), 22 March 1951

13-00000
April 1951
Discussions held between ADAMSON and HAND of CIA and Colonels COVERDALE,
and CARLAN, Mr. TOD, and Captain VILLEMETTE of G-2. Points (given below)
the Army wants covered in a cable to OSO in Panama.
a. Fort Clayton hospital detention war considered best possibility.
b. Has this been discussed with G-2 USACARIB? If so, does it meet
their approval? Can it be worked without advising Provost Marshal,
Washington? (so leave in G-2 channels).
c. AC of S G-2 Washington concurred in principle with proposal of
assistance to CIA in this matter.
d. As soon as operational details worked out with USACARIB, cable ad-
vising generally that can be effected forwarded by G-2 USACARIB to ACos S
G-2 (personal for BOLLING). Details will come back through CIA.
e. Identification of KELLY (DIMITROV) case.
f. Detention period maximum of one year, relieve Army sooner if CAS

13-00000
facility available.
g. Transportation under escort via MATS to military base Panama proposed.
NB (included at bottom of page): ADAMSON reworked cable and read draft
to HAND, CARLAN, TOD, and VILLEMETTE who approved. HAND took draft in
order to have OSO get it out today.
Note dated 8 April 1951.

13-00000
12 April 1951
DIMITROV told (his handler - CIA) that he was to tell FLORIMOND by 13
April whether he would work with him. DIMITROV asked for instructions.
He was told that his answer was to be a definite and final no. He was
not to see the French again.
Memorandum, dated 18 April 1951

13-00000
13, 14, and 17 April 1951
DIMITROV saw FLORIMOND on Friday (13th), Saturday (14th) and on Tuesday
(17th). On the latter day he also saw a certain French assistant mili-
tary attache named PIRAY.
Memorandum, 18 April 1951

13-00000
18 April 1951 (date of memorandum)
Athens Station describes reasons for distrusting DIMITROV (see document)

13-00000
19 April 1951
According to Yani KOLOMONOS, DIMITROV's friend, stated that the latter
agreed to meet PIRAY at the French Embassy between 11 and 12 o'clock
on Thursday, 19 April. At this meeting DIMITROV will (1) give the
French detailed accounts of all United States operations of which he is
aware, with special emphasis on Radio Gorianin, and (2) receive for this
information the sum of 10 to 15 million drachmae.
KOLOMONOS suggests that this effort of the French might be/communist
inspired attempt to penetrate United States intelligence activities.
Memorandum dated 18 April 1951

13-00000
Circa 21 April 1951
Discussions concerning disposal of DIMITROV since he had full knowledge
of names of next infiltration teams and general knowledge of operations.
WASH 38789 (OUT 97616), 21 April 1951

13-00000
3 May 1951 (dt of memorandum)
W. G. WYMAN, ADSO, informs ADPC of a report from a fairly reliable source,
from an informant who knows DIMITROV from having worked with him, but who
may be somewhat biased:
See document.
Memorandum for ADPC, dated 3 May 1951

13-00000
ATHE 4821 (IN 30224), 22.3.51
ATHE 5150 (IN 36130), 20.4.51
FRAN 2910 (IN 36297), 21.4.51
ATHE 5205 (IN 37092), 25.4.51
ATHE 5282 (IN 37839), 29.4.51
ATHE 3200 (IN 46672), 25.10.50

13-00000
DST 18015
Athens 588
13.10.50
DIMITROV Dimiter Adamov
7 May 1924, born in the village of Medkovets
Bulgaria
1941-1942 finished high school
1942-1943 studied philology at Sofia Unversity
1942 joined a secret branch of the Bulgarian
National Agrarian Union.
1943 began underground activities; worked closely
with Dr. G.M. DIMITROV
2.9.44 emerged from hiding to begin works with the
Mushanov, Guitchev, Moravier Agrarians.
9.9.44 After events on 9.9.44 went into hiding
and began works against the communists.
27.10.44 accused by the government of sabotage be-
cause he lied agitated against the Russian
occupations troops.
During ensuing months arrested several time
in Ferdinand, Vratsa and Lom, when released
from prison, he continued his illegal activities
which seem to have consisted in travelling
from village to village, organizing loose-knit
groups of agrarians to withstand Comm
Pressures.
His activities often lead him across the
Yugoslaw frontier. Worked in Vaidas Ware
organizing Bulgarian sympathizers
for the cause
of Dr. G. M. DIMITROV, and upon the advice of
a catain General
KITCHHAROV.

13-00000
April-May 1945: In Sofia in contact with G.M. DIMITROV,
Nikola PETKOV, and Mara RAICHEVA.
obtained illegal identity card in name
of Boris Stoikov, a member of the 2nd
Belgrade shock Brigade. Toured south-
Western Yugoslavia, organizing Agrarian
ports". Captured by Yugoslav.
18 November 1945
authorities and sent back to Bulgaria; escaped during
16 August 1946
transfer reached Sofia where he was helped
by
Peter BELBASHKI, Colonel BAKELESS,
an American sergeant named "Bucky",
General Craig, and Mrs. Minnie BALA-
BANOVA. Travelled through Bulgaria
organizing "secret ports" - some 250.
during
elections, spoke at secret meetings
in Vratsa, urging people to defeat com-
munism.
captured by police in Sofia, 18 days
without bread; 12 days without water.
days on an electric torture machine. He
believes not executed because communists
wished to hold him as a witness in
preperation for the trial of Nikola PETKOV.

13-00000
13.10 - 11.11.46 tried in Vratsa Cant for having orga-
nized subversive groups all over
Bulgaria".
Sentenced on for counts I to death is years
6 years, and 3 years; jagded in solita-
ry confinement
2.6.47 tried and sentenced to death by Sofia
Military Court. Tried and sentenced to
death by the court in Lom.
June 1947 taken to a quarry in Vratsa.
8 July 1947 escaped from quarry; went to Mesdra.
from there to Zvereva, then Sofia, where he
received help from Biritish and Americans
Slept on one occasion in Sofia house of
Jack HORNER.
23 July 1947 crossed the Greek frontier south of Zlatogred.
24 July 1947 gave himself up at Shahim
admitted to Biritish hospital in Xanthis
c. August 1947 transferred to a British hospital
Salonika.
c. mid-September 1947 Sent to Athens, Greeks sent him
to refugee
camp at Lavrion. slayed 9 months.
June 1948 went to Athens where he obtained employment
broadcasting in Bulgarian on Radio
Athens.
See memorandum
dated 4.4/52.
Ulysse
worked for Prese FLORIMOND, Salonika
French vice consult
(Military Attache of the French Embassy, Athens, listed
Dimitra DIMITROV as an agent (Ulysses
further described as being in contact
with Ivan BAREV, two Bulgarians who may
have shill
working for with the British.
He is
DIMITROV
content of the Greels Aliens Directorate, His file
contained two reports, one dated & April 1949, containing
"the military situation" and the other dated 6 April
1949, containing an account of the Greek Government
