14-00000
104-10234-10155

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

AMLASH - Paris Station Aspect

Paris Station involvement with the AMLASH case began in 1962, after AMLASH/2 came to Paris after attending the Helsinki Youth Festival that year. In Helsinki, AMLASH/1 was contacted by UNRUMELE/2 (an asset of the Paris Station who attended the Festival for purposes of disruption) and by other KUBARK assets. It is not clear from our files just when AMLASH/1 was "recruited" but it appears that he was recruited during or shortly after the Festival.

In Paris he was in contact with Peter J. KIMINGHAM (probably in alias although I know that AMLASH/1 was at KIMINGHAM's home upon occasion). In 1962 AMLASH/1 was given training in explosives by XX (I believe) upon request of the Paris Station. He appears to have returned to PERINEN in late 1962. It is not known if other Paris Station personnel were in contact with AMLASH/1 during that period.

AMLASH/1 next arrived in Paris on 1 September 1963, coming from the International Games held in Porto Alegre, Brasil, where he was in contact with TYPIC officers. At this point AMSFORT/1 (now QUEFORT) was in contact with AMLASH/1 in Paris and AMSHIP/1 was another commo channel (the case being used primarily by Hqs.). The Headquarters TYPIC officer, ONTRICH (?), arrived in Paris on 3 October 1963 and picked up the contact with AMLASH/1 which was being maintained by AMBFORT/1 and KYMIHMM. The meetings with AMLASH/1 took place in KY's home as best I remember. These discussions concerned AMLASH/1's plans to assassinate AMEND and overthrow his regime.

ONTRICH returned to Paris in late October, after discussions at Headquarters on the case. ONTRICH and DAITHOLD, who was tdy in Paris at the time, met with AMLASH/1 in late October or early November. DAITHOLD's participation was due to AMLASH/1's strong desire to talk with some high-level ODYOKE official concerning his plans and to obtain ODYOKE blessing if possible. I am not aware of exactly what happened at these meetings but I received the impression from KYMMOHAN that such blessing was given.

AMLASH/1 returned to PN on 27 November 1963. It was during this visit to Paris

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

that STOCKWOOD met AMLASH/1 and UNIT/1, probably in alias but I do not know the details. It was also apparent by the time AMLASH/1 left that he knew UNSHAPE/5 was working for KUBARK and we assume that UNSHAPE/5 was aware to some extent of AMLASH/1's plans (UNSHAFT/5 had long been recruited by KUBARK at that time). It was agreed that AMLASH/1 would need the address of UNSHAFT/13's parents for a/w letters to KUBARK (UNSHAFT/13 is wife of UNBNAFU/9).

AMLASH/1 next arrived in Paris in late November or early December 1964. AMSHIP/1, STOCKWOOD and ONTRICH (tdy from Headquarters) met with him in Paris (this time in a safe house of the Station). AMLASH/1 left for PERUMEN from Madrid on 20 February 1965. During this stay in Paris AMLASH/1 met the following KUBARK staffers and agents:

STOCKWOOD, CLOADER, RODAMER
AMSHIP/1, BISKAFU/9, UHONAPU/3, UNSHAFU/13

You will recall that in December 1964 UNSHAFU/5 had a nervous breakdown and AMLASH/1 played an important part in convincing UNSHAFT/5 that he should agree to hospitalization. It was in this connection that GLOADEN and RODAMER met AMLASH/1. GLOADEN subsequently met with AMLASH/1 two or three times to receive reports for STOCKWOOD. These meetings were street meetings or in the home of UMBNAPU/5.

During this stay, AMLASH/1 traveled to Madrid at least once to meet with AMBIDDY/2 and AMBANG/1. I am not aware of results of these meetings except that AMLASH/1 was seeking the physical instruments to carry out his plan to eliminate ARTHUR.

There was no additional contact with AMLASH/1 in Paris subsequent to February 1965 but the Station (GLOAREN and HIRLETS) did have subsequent contact with UNSHAFU/5, UNSHAFU/9, AMLASH/2 and AMLASH/3. You will recall that it was AMLASH/3 who made the "joking" pitch to MINULIES on 6 July 1965. AMLASH/2 and AMLASH/3 were both aware of AMLASH/1's plans.

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

Paris Station personnel known to AMLASH:

Peter J. KIMINGHAM - not known what alias used. Some meetings were held in A's home in 1962/63. It is not known if other staff personal (other than ONTRICH) were met than by AMLASH/1.
Paul K. STOCKWOOD - alias not known for sure but believe he used "Roberts". AMSHIP/1 knew STOCKWOOD as embassy officer and called him there.
Peter H. GLOADEN - Known as "Dick". True name not used unless told to AMLASH/1 by USA or UNSHAFU/9.
Milton P. RODAMER - met AMLASH/1 only once, when transporting UNSHAFU/5 to hospital.
Dr. Lipsich - Begun to all T ...... (can't remember alias used). cleared Dr. at American Hospital, Paris. AMLASH/1 met Ha briefly when admitting UNSHAFU/5 to hospital.
Wallace A. GROWERY (from PAER) - met in 1968 during explosives training in Paris. Details not

Agents (involved to some degree)

UNSHAFT/5
UNSHAFU/13
AMLASH/2
AMLASH/3
AMSHIP/1
Peter M. GLOAREN
7 March 1966
