104-10130-10343 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

NAME: Boris D. Teresoff (FDD)
OFFICIAL STATION: Washington, D.C.
OFFICE PHONE:
GRADE: GS-11

☑ TDY
PCS
INVITATIONAL
EOD: 104887
TRAVEL ORDER
Office TRAVEL ORDER NO: 14-00000
SERVICE TRAVEL ORDER NO:

YOU ARE AUTHORIZED TO TRAVEL AND INCUR NECESSARY EXPENSES IN ACCORDANCE WITH REGULATIONS. THIS TRAVEL OR CHANGE OF OFFICIAL STATION, IF SO DESIGNATED, IS MADE FOR OFFICIAL PURPOSES AND NOT FOR YOUR PERSONAL CONVENIENCE.

ITINERARY, MODE OF TRAVEL AND PURPOSE

Washington, D.C. to Mexico City and return.
RETURN TO CIA
MODE: Air
PURPOSE: TII Replacement for Station Employee while on home leave. Do Not Reproduce
Background Use Only
Area Classified Category A.

TRAVEL DURATION
BEGIN
END
PER DIEM ALLOWANCE
DOMESTIC
FOREIGN
MAXIMUM
OTHER
(See below)
15 Aug '60

ALLOWANCES AND SPECIAL PROVISIONS WITH REASONS

90 days TDY
[Light State Cover ]

AUTOMOBILE ALLOWANCE
CENTS PER MI.
NOT TO EXCEED
COST-BY COMMON CARRIER
AS MORE
ADVANTAGEOUS
TO GOV'T.
CENTS PER MI.

DEPENDENT TRAVEL AUTHORIZED
NAME
DATE OF BIRTH RELATIONSHIP
PROCURE TRANSPORTATION BY
TRANSPORTATION REQUEST
CASH OR OTHER

ESTIMATED COST OF TRAVEL
$1400.00 (02)

DISPOSITION OF EFFECTS
AUTHORIZATION
SHIPMENT
NONTEMPORARY
STORAGE
SHIPMENT POA AUTHORIZED
EXCESS BAGGAGE AUTHORIZED
5¢ PM *60
CERTIFY FUNDS ARE AVAILABLE
OBLIGATION REFERENCE NO.
34
ACCOMPANIED
UNACCOMPANIED
LBS AND MODE
LBS AND MODE
CHARGE COST CENTER NO.
40 Air
1135-5700-3000
DATE
SIGNATURE OF B & F OFFICER
ACCOMPANY TRAVELER
FOLLOW WITHIN 6 MONTHS
ADVANCE RETURN
SIGNATURE
COORDINATION
TITLE & COMPONENT
CCI)
ADVANCE OF FUNDS REQUESTED
ACCOUNTING DUE DATE
YES
NO
DATE
7/1/6
#FIL
Dec. 1960 5 July 1960
TYPED NAME AND TITLE
SIGNATURECKING
REQUESTING
EMLEY OCE22ING BUTTHORIZING OFFICIAL A. Moore
TYPED NAME AND TITLE
COMPONENT
DATE
5 July 1960
COMPONENT
SIGNATURE
Chief, Oper
DATE
5 July 1960
FORM 540
3-59
MFG 5-59
OBSOLETE
PREVIOUS
EDITIONS.
(28-48)
