104-10105-10290

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY : CIA
RECORD NUMBER : 104-10105-10290
RECORD SERIES : JFK
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM : CHIEF, COVER & COMMERCIAL STAFF
TO : ACTING GENERAL COUNSEL
TITLE : MR. E. HOWARD HUNT - ALIAS BIRTH CERITIFICATE
DATE : 11/02/1973
PAGES : 7
SUBJECTS : TOURIST CARD, JFK ASSASSINATION
DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER
CLASSIFICATION : SECRET
RESTRICTIONS : 1A 1B
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/21/04
COMMENTS : JFK37 : F10 : 20040112-1033571

NW 64937 Docid:32357551 Page 1

ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10105-10290

---

SECRET

2 November 1973

MEMORANDUM FOR: Acting General Counsel

SUBJECT: Mr. E. Howard Hunt - Alias Birth Certificate

1. On 30 October 1973 I saw Mr. John S. Warner, Acting General Counsel, to discuss two outstanding requests from the Special Prosecutor's office in regard to U.S. passports which had been issued to E. Howard Hunt and a MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD on Mr. Robert Bennett's session with the U.S. Prosecutor Silbert in July 1972. I handed Mr. Warner a memorandum listing the type, number and dates of the 2 passports which Mr. Hunt was issued between 1950 and 1970. In reviewing the information in this memorandum, I mentioned Mr. Hunt's tour in Spain in the middle 1960's and the fact that I had been instructed not to include Mr. Hunt and his activities in my inspection of the Madrid Station in 1965. I also mentioned to Mr. Warner that I remembered two discussions with Mr. Skip Dunn late in 1972 during which he inquired of me whether CIA had ever issued an alias passport to Mr. Hunt. I said that as I recalled, CIA did not initiate the issuance of a U.S. alias passport, but that Mr. Hunt did have in his possession an alias travel document. This came as a surprise to Mr. Warner. He had not been previously aware that Mr. Hunt possessed a U.S. international travel document in alias. As a result he called Mr. John Richards, Office of the IG, and asked whether Mr. Richards was aware of this and whether Mr. Dunn's reports provided this information. After an interval, Mr. Richards called back and told Mr. Warner that I had provided information to Mr. Dunn that Mr. Hunt had a tourist card in alias. According to Mr. Richards, Mr. Dunn's memorandum quoted me as saying that my information came from an "A-1 source." At that moment, I could not recall having made such a statement.

NW 64937 Docid:32357551 Page 2

SECRET
E2 IMPDET
CL BY
059770

---

SECRET

2. Upon my return from Mr. Warner's office, I consulted with Mr. James W. Franklin, Chief, Official Cover Branch, CCS, with whom I had discussed Mr. Dunn's inquiry in late 1972. I asked Mr. Franklin whether he could refresh my memory. This he did immediately. He reminded me that a newspaper article (Tab A) had appeared claiming that one of the Watergate 5 had carried a U.S. passport in the name of Edward Hamilton. This newspaper article had been seen by Mr. Robert Johnson, Deputy Director of the U.S. Passport Office, who had had the U.S. Passport Office files examined with negative results. Mr. Johnson then determined from the FBI that the document involved was not a U.S. passport in the name of Edward Hamilton but a tourist card in that name. I then remembered that because the information came from the FBI via Mr. Johnson, I had not identified the source of my information. I immediately called Mr. Warner and advised him of the foregoing.

3. Later in the afternoon of 30 October 1973 Mr. Franklin came to my office with a number of documents. They consisted of a form memorandum signed by me which was addressed to Mr. Hunt dated 29 June 1970 (Tab B), a list of names numbering from 1 through 154, representing true names (Tab C), and a second listing similarly numbered, representing aliases (Tab D). Number 63 on the true name list reads E. Howard Hunt and on the alias list, Edward Joseph Hamilton. Mr. Franklin explained which I had forgotten - that we had obtained from TSD this list of outstanding alias birth certificates issued by TSD in an attempt to recall--if possible--as many of these documents, or to determine what had happened to them. (Most of these alias birth certificates were issued in connection with the Bay of Pigs Operation.) The memorandum was never forwarded to Mr. Hunt because by June 1970, he had been retired for 3 months. This memorandum had not been included in Mr. Hunt's cover file but had been kept with the working papers pertaining to the action trying to recall as many of the outstanding alias birth certificates as possible. As a result, the repeated reviews of Mr. Hunt's cover file had not yielded the information that an alias birth certificate had been issued to him. 97 of the 154 aliases were not previously recorded in the CCS central index and the indexing after the acquisition of the list had been overlooked. The surfacing of these documents at this time occurred because in re-discussing Mr. Hunt's possession of an international travel document in alias reminded Mr. Franklin of the 1970 CCS exercise of recouping outstanding alias birth certificates. Discussions on the same subject in December 1972 simply did not result in the same memory association.

NW 64937 DocId:32357551 Page 3

-2-
SECRET

---

NW 64937

4. In the late afternoon of 30 October 1973 Mr. Franklin and I saw Mr. Warner, reported the foregoing facts to him, showed him the documents, and agreed that we would ask Mr. Johnson to check the Passport Office files once more to confirm that no U.S. passport in the name of Edward Joseph Hamilton had ever been issued to Mr. Hunt. The result of Mr. Johnson's check is still outstanding at the time of this writing.

ERICH W. ISENSTEAD
Chief, Cover & Commercial Staff

4 Atts:
A: News Article
B: 29 June 70 Form Memo to Hunt
C: True Name Listing
D: Alias Name Listing
CC: IG via DDO

NW 64937 DocId:32357551 Page 4

-3-
SECRET

---

1. ASMIC, Gundars
2. AMSAL, Glenn
3. SHERWOOD, John
4. ADKINS, Natt
5. ADERHOLT, Harry Clay
6. RAGONA, Ferruggia
7. BARAKAUSKAS, Algirdas
8. BROWN, James W.
9. SPERD, Horace III
10. Amthrill-1 (Crypt)
11. ROSENBAUER, William
12. SEWARD, Major William A. Jr.
13. BEALE, W. H.
14. BINAS, Alis P.K.
15. BECERT, Jerome F.
16. ERICKSON, Paul
17. KINANDER, James F.
18. BARQUIN, Casimiro
19. BECKER, Alexander
20. BYZIK, Stephen Joo
21. BURKE, Paul J.
22. BRADFIELD, Tony Edward
23. SHERWOOD, John
24. MELBERG, Robert L.
25. SHACKLEY, Theodore
26. BRANTLEY, Herbert M.
27. BURKE, Paul J.
28. BLAIR, William
29. CUNNINGHAM, James Allen Jr.
30. CHAS, Peter
31. DALY, Vincent S.
32. BARTLEY, Cletus Winton
33. CAREY, William David
34. CARTER, William R.
35. CROCE, Andrew
36. FLORES, Thomas J.
37. DAIGA, Janis
38. DALEY, V. J.
39. CHIPMAN, Harold E.
40. DILLON, John
41. DE GARDER, Constantine
42. DEIGIONS, William H.
43. DUBOIS, Reno
44. ECAN, Frank J.
45. ENDERS, Rudolf A.
46. EDWARDS, William Monroe Jr.
47. None
48. HEATH, Donald R.
49. FUCHS, Robert H.
50. FRANKLIN, Lucian V. Jr.
51. FLICK, Charles E.

52. ASMIC, Gundars
53. AMSAL, Glenn
54. SHERWOOD, John
55. ADKINS, Natt
56. ADERHOLT, Harry Clay
57. Greene, Aubrey
58. BRICOLAT, Pedro González
59. GOUDIE, Cecil Mario
60. TISLER, Frantisek
61. GREENS
62. GRAHAM, Barber
63. HUNT, E. Howard
64. None
65. HAWKINS, Jack
66. HORN, Rufus A. Sr.
67. HILDALGO, Barney
68. HEWITT, Thomas X.
69. HECHT, Elmer Edward
70. IMASKIN, Andrij
71. JENCSOK, Stephen
72. JANCHUK, Nicholas
73. JAROSZEWICZ, Sigmund J.
74. JAUNZEMIS, Ulla
75. JOANSON, Ivar
76. JASUKOW, Nikolai
77. KYKIR, Benjamin Franklin
78. KAPUSTA, Peter J.
79. KARKLINS, Zigurds
80. KRYZANINSKY, Myron
81. KOCELA, Paul
82. KAPPES, G.
83. KURTZ, Walter
84. KIDA, Jack
85. KENNEDY, John W.
86. KRUTYHOLOWA, Walter
87. KREGZEYS, Joseph
88. LAMBERGS, John
89. LEE, Watson Hwa Shen
90. MAYERFELD, Ernest
91. KLEIN, Theodore
92. LOPUSZAUSKY, Kyroslaw
93. LUPU, Andrei Nicolao
94. Unknown
95. MAHONEY, Philip J.
96. CHIPMAN, Harold E.
97. MASLOVSKY, Sorge
98. MARTINEZ, Rubon
99. SMITH, Haviland Jr.
100. MOORE, Andrew F.
101. MARSAK, Frank
102. KRIESFELD, George
103. MULANE, Corrald J.

NW 64937 DocId:32357551 Page 5

---

TRUE

107. BARQUIN, Casimiro
108. MORALES David S.
109. NEWMASTER, Harry Richard
110. NASARENKO, Michael
111. PIEPER, Harry C.
112. PHILLIPS, William D.
113. GREENE, Harris
114. PASLAWSKY, Nicholas
115. PAWLYSZYN, Myroslaw
116. FRANK, Maryado
117. MOORE, Robert Butler
118. PRIBANYEC, Janos
119. None
120. RASTENIS, Jonas
121. REYNOLDS, Malcolm Eugene
122. RAUS, Juri
123. RIKAND, Enno
124. AMLFO-3 (Crypt)
125. RATCLIFF, Richard
126. REEVES, John M. Jr.
127. REYNOLDS, Robert E.
128. RUCKER, Lucian O. Jr.
129. SULLIVAN, Dennis B.
130. STAROSTENKO, Henry
131. IMLER, Norman C.
132. SLEEPER, Gordon
133. None
134. None
135. GONZALO, QUESADA Jr.
136. SAGER, John
137. SMITH, Edmund Gambri11
138. SLENYS, Lindas K.
139. SOLNZEFF, Henry
140. SOLER, Eva Diana
141. SATINSKAS, Henry
142. STEVENS, George A.
143. WALLIN, Jack
144. TASHEFF, Mary

TRUE

145. AIMAN, James Henry
146. STOIAKEN, Nicholas P.
147. TALLEY, Ulo
148. TURK, Leo L.
149. THOMAS, Edward
150. None
151. TRIANOSKY, Harry
152. VINING, James L.
153. VAN COURTNEY, Donald
154. HARVEY, William K.
155. BULIK, Joseph
156. WILL, Kenneth John
157. SHORTALL, John W. Jr.
158. WATTS, Roy Furniss
159. MERTZ, Richard
160. None
161. ZANKIN, Myroslaw
162. ALAGAZE-1 (Crypt)
163. LODY SENSHI

NW 64937 DocId:32357551 Page 6

---

OF THE WHICH MIGUING BIRTH CHITI

1. ACKER, Gerald
2. ADLAND, Glennon Edward
3. AHORN, Paul Rodger
4. AIVY, Matt
5. ASH, Howard Clay
6. AUDISTO, Mario
7. BARNAUD, James Winston
8. BARKER, Algis
9. BARNIR, Andrew Frank
10. BARRETO, John Raymond
11. BAKER, William John
12. BAUGH, William James
13. BELT, William Henry
14. BENTON, Alan
15. BENUCK, Karl Donald
16. BERGETHON, David Bjorn
17. BERGSON, William Kinander
18. BERTELLI, Charles Angelo
19. BEST, Alexander
20. BINSWANGER, Stanley Joo
21. BORDEN, Paul Thomas Aquinas
22. BRADLEY, Thomas Edward
23. BREITHEIM, John Albert
24. BRICK, Robert Leo
25. BRICKHAM, Tad S.
26. BRIGGS, Herb
27. BROOME, Paul Gregory
28. BRUTON, William Emmott
29. CANTBELL, James Alan Jr.
30. CARNEY, Peter
31. BOWTECK, Cletus Winton
32. CLINE, William David
33. CONRAD, WILLIAM Robert
34. CROWE, Andrew Paul
35. CURBELO, Eduardo
36. DAILEY, James
37. DEKANSKI, Vincent Joseph
38. DETAINE, William Alan
39. DELLAFIORE, James Earl
40. DE LONG, Constantine
41. DONATNE, William Henry
42. DRAKOS, Victor Samuel
43. DUBOTS, Rene E.
44. EIGLSON, Frank Joseph
45. ELFMONT, Rudolf Albert
46. ELLEGOR, William Monroe
47. EVANS, Arthur Hell
48. FARON, Charles Andrew
49. FILECCIA, Robert H.
50. FITSAMES, Lucian Charles
51. FLICK, Charles E.
52. MCADAM, George Thomas
53. MCGAVIN, Gerald Joseph

54. FORDACH, John Norman
55. FRYLINK,
56. FROST, Frank
57. GENISHA, Aubrey Lyle
58. GENGARO, Charles Harry
59. GONZALEZ, Pedro Francisco
60. CUDING-KARGAIN, Carlos
61. GREENS
62. GRAHAM, Barber
63. HABER, Frantisek
64. HALF, William Mark
65. HALLY, Roberta Shirley
66. HAMILTON, Edward Joseph
67. HARRISON, Louise
68. HASKING, John Martin
69. HEBERTEN, Roger Andrew
70. HILLARY, Bernard Norman
71. HODONICKI, Thomas Mark
72. HURLEY, Edward Elmer
73. IRVING, Andrew
74. JACOBS, Stephan
75. JAMES, Nicholas
76. JARECKI, Stanley
77. JEFFRIES, Uldis
78. JENKINS, Ivar
79. JUDD, Nicholas
80. KACKYAN, Benjamin Franklin
81. KARLQUIST, Paul
82. KASABIAN, Zigurds
83. KELLY, Myron
84. KENDALL, Paul
85. KERKSICK, Walter
86. KINEY, Jack Anthony
87. KINSLAW, John William
88. KOLA, Walter
89. KOSTIK, Joseph
90. LANSING, John
91. LEE, Watson Hwa Shen
92. LEITNER, Richard Ernest
93. LENART, Charles Edward
94. LOVE, Wron
95. LUPU, Andrei Nicolae
96. LYONS, George H.
97. MAGLIE, Philip Joseph
98. MALABRE, Howland Edward
99. MALOHOFF, Sorge
100. MARKSCHATT, Ruben
101. MARSAL, Karl
102. MASCHGAN, Andrew Frank
103. MASON, Frank

NW 64937 DocId:32357551 Page 7

---

-3-

107. MENICUCCI, Andrew Robert
108. MIRANDA, Diego S.
109. NACHBRUNN, Harry Richard
110. NASH, Mike
111. PANOCK, Harry Charles
112. PAPPS, William David
113. PARKER, Carl Frank
114. PASTOR, Nick
115. PAULSON, Marty
116. PEVER, Laura Jean
117. POLACEK, Henry Franklin
118. POLING, Janos

ALIAS

119. RAHILL, Richard Kent
120. RANALLO, Jonas
121. RATCLIFF, Matthew Edward
122. REED, Juri
123. REESE, Eno
124. REESE, Joseph Anthony
125. RESTELLER, Richard Lawrence
126. ROBERTS, John Martin Jr.
127. ROGERS, Robert E.
128. ROTTUM, Lowell Owen
129. SAKIN, Edmond Abel
130. SEALE, Henry
131. SEALY, Robert Ruben
132. SELFE, Gordon Dale
133. SHALER, Floyd A
134. SHIPLEY, Charles Joseph
135. SHOWCROFT, Richard E.
136. SIMPSON, John
137. SIROTA, Edward G.
138. SLATER, Lawrence
139. SNYDER, Gene
140. None
141. SORENSON, Henry
142. STANDARD, George Adam
143. STATEN, Samuel Addison
144. STEPHENS, Marina T.

ALIAS

145. STEVENS, James Henry
146. None
147. TANIER, Lester Lewis
148. TOGGITT, Edward J.
149. TORREY, Erasmus
150. TRABAN, Gregorio R.
151. VALCHIN, James Louis
152. VAN CHADDE, Donald
153. WALKER, William
154. WELK, Joseph Reinhold
155. WIDEGREN, Keith J.
156. WILLEMS, Brenton Wall
157. WISHFORD, Roy Furniss
158. WOLF, Frederick Morri
159. WONG, Lam
160. ZEAMAN, Myron
161. ZIMMER, Paul R.

NW 64937 DocId:32357551 Page 8
