14-00000
104-10169-10060

[2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

DISPATCH

SECRET

APPROVED FOR INDEXING

Chief of Station, JMWAVE

OPERATING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE

FROM

SUBJECT: TYPIC/OPERATIONAL

Headquarters traces

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

MICROFILMED
AUG 30 1966
DOC. MICRO. BER

ACTION REQUIRED: FYI

REFERENCE: UFGA-24799

1.  Headquarters traces on the Subjects of reference and the Hudson Institute follow:

A. Alberto LLERAS Camargo (201-102576) was born in Bogota, 3 July 1906. He left school at the age of seventeen to become a journalist. He traveled to Argentina and lived in Buenos Aires for three years (1926-29) writing for various Argentina periodicals. His political career began upon his return to Colombia in 1929, when he was appointed secretary of the Liberal Party (1930-33) and received tremendous impetus under the aegis of Alfonso LOPEZ, Liberal Party leader and former President of Colombia (1934-38 and 1942-45). Subsequently, LLERAS served in the National House of Representatives (1931-34). When Alfonso LOPEZ was inaugurated President in 1934, he took LLERAS into his government as Secretary General of the Presidency (1934-35), and later made him Minister of Government from 1943 to 1945. The latter year he was made Minister of Foreign Affairs, as well as First Vice President of Colombia. His public service culminated then in his accession to the Presidency on the resignation of President LOPEZ in 1945. After discharging the duties of Chief Executive for a year (1945-46), LLERAS was elected Secretary General of the Pan American Union in 1947, a post which he held until 1954. He then resigned and returned to Colombia to accept the position of Rector (President) of the University of The Andes (1955-56). Devoting himself once again to politics, LLERAS began writing a column in the Liberal Daily El Espectador. In his columns he strongly criticized the Rojas regime (1953-57) and called for the return of constitutional government in Colombia. In March 1956, he was elected President of the Liberal Party and shortly thereafter (June 1956) travelled to Spain and had conversations with Laureano GOMEZ, a leader of the Conservative Party and former President of Colombia (1950-53). These two political leaders signed a manifesto condemning the Rojas regime and

GROSS REFERENCE TO

CS COPY
B-201-102576
201-102576

(CONTINUED)

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: UFCW-6130

SECRET

DATE: 22 Aug 66

25 AUG 1998

HQS: 201-308736

GROUP: Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

OFFICE: WH/C/RR/OS

OFFICE SYMBOL: WH/C/RR

TYPIST: Avulia Top

OFFICER'S NAME: R. Ortman (phone)

EXT: 2621

WH/C/ESEC

201-308736

WH/C/RR/OS

WH/C/MO

WH/C/CA/P

OFFICE SYMBOL: C/WH/C

DATE: 7/8

03. Gonzales (draft)

DATE: 23

Flores

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

US PREVIOUS EDITION

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: UFGV-6130

calling for the establishment of a coalition government in Colombia through bi-partisan efforts. From November 1956 to February 1957 LLERAS served as a United Nations Observer to investigate the Hungarian situation.

LLERAS is described as a champion of the Pan American cause and as being very friendly to the United States and a firm believer in the Western type democracy.

Although he did not complete his education and has no formal degree, he has long been addressed as "doctor" as a matter of courtesy. He does, however, have honorary degrees from several Colombian universities as well as from the University of California. He speaks English and French, is married to the former Berta PUGA (daughter of a late President of Chile) and has four children.

On 24 February 1958 an Operational Approval was granted for the utilization of LLERAS in supporting a special operation. However, before the operation was implemented, LLERAS was elected President of Colombia. There has been no operational interest in him since.

B. There are no Headquarters or LNERGO traces on the Hudson Institute per se, however, LNERGO files contain derogatory information on several members of the institute which LNERGO will furnish WOFACT if we specify which of the members are of interest. If JMWAVE wished this done, please advise on which of the members information is requested.

C. There are no identifiable traces on the other subjects of paragraph 5 of reference.

2. Headquarters defers to JMWAVE regarding AMRAZZ/1's future association with the institute.

Distribution:
Orig. & 2 - COS, JMWAVE

HOWARD R. COLLEARY
25 AUG 1966

PAGE NO.
2

CLASSIFICATION: Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification
