14-00000
104-10527-10212

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
21 NOV.

FROM: DIRECTOR
INFO: 001, O/001, CDP, ADOP, CI, S, WH 1% (POUCH FRAN, CITO, FI, EE, WE)
ACC: MULTI-ADDRESSEE CABLE
TO: BONN 5, BRLN 5, AS, LOND, PARI, ROME, HAGU, COPE, STOC, BOKN, HAMB
CABLE SEC: XPLS (POUCH CABLE TO FOLLOWING:) (WRENCH POUCH)
FRAN, XIA, BRIN, MUNI, ATHE, BERN, CALE, BEIR, TEHE, TEL, RIOD, SAOP, SAGO, MONT, CARA, LAPA, LIMA, QUIT, SINTO, NELB, TOXY HOR HAVE, BARC, MILA, TRIE
2721 50Z

ROUTINE
65387
RERUMEN ZRPRIMA

RELEASING COORDINATING OFFICER

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

--- Page 2 ---

ORIG
9. FONIS: jd
6153
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
INDAY!
SE
NO INDEX.
21 NOV. 63
FILINGS FILE NO. 200-120-47

CERTAIN STATIONS AND BASES
FROM: DIRECTOR
ROUTING: S
22 Nov 63 17 832
SIG CEN
DEFERRED
ROUTINE
NO. MULTI-ADDRESSEE, CABLE INFO
RERUMEN ZRPRIMA
DIR 22218
CITE DIR 85387

RECENTLY CONCLUDED HOS REVIEW OF ZRPRIMA PROGRAM SHOWS THAT EUBA EFFORTS HAVE NOT ACHIEVED ANY SIGNIFICANT RESULTS AND CONTINUATION OF PROGRAM AS SUCH NO LONGER WARRANTED MAIN REASON FOR KUBARK FAILURE IS THAT CUBAN TECHNICIAN RECRUITING PROGRAM HAS BEEN MISERABLE FAILURE WHEN MEASURED AGAINST ORIGINAL OBJECTIVE OF 2000 TECHS FROM WESTERN EUROPE ALONE THOUGH OUR FIGURES NOT COMPLETE, ESTIMATE PROBABLY LESS THAN THIRTY WERD HAVE ACTUALLY MADE IT TO THE ISLAND.

FIDEL'S CANDIDATES HAVE RECEIVED CONTRACT APPROVAL AND WE ABLE CONFIRM KUBARE HAS SUCCEEDED IN INSERTING MAD TECHS INTO VARIOUS HIRING CHANNELS, BUT SO FAR ONLY TWO HAVE RECEIVED CONTRACT APPROVAL FROM HAVANA.

2. CUBAN FAILURE TO RECRUIT IN SIGNIFICANT NUMBERS APPEARS TO RELUCTANCE FOREIGN MINISTRY AND FOREIGN SERVICE OFFICERS PURSUE TECH RECRUITING MISSION AGGRESSIVELY, BUREAUCRATIC INCOMPETENCE IN HAVANA FEAR OF INFILTRATION OF HOSTILE AGENTS

CONT

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
Copy No.

COORDINATING OFFICE
SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000
FROM DIRECTOR
CONE:
INFO: 000.
NO INDEX
FILE IN CS FILE NO
P. A.G.
ROUTINE
CITE DIR 85387

AND PROBABLE LOSS OF INTEREST IN THE PROGRAM ON PART OF CASTRO HIMSELF THESE FACTORS WHICH EMERGE FROM OUR STUDY OF THE PERFORMANCE ACCOUNT FOR LACK OF RESPONSE FROM EMBASSIES ON HAVANA AND SMALL NUMBER OF TECHS ULTIMATELY APPLYING. LONG DELAY BETWEEN INITIAL APPLICATION AND ULTIMATE APPROVAL FROM HAVANA HAS COST CUBANS NUMBER OF TECHS WHO WERE INITIALLY EAGER BUT SUBSEQUENTLY LOST INTEREST OR TOOK JOBS.

IN FACE OF FOREGOING WE DO NOT BELIEVE IT WORTHWHILE TO CONTINUE INTENSIVE SEARCH FOR ZRPRIMA CANDIDATES FOR INSERTION INTO CUBAN HIRING CHANNEL. STATIONS WITH ACTIVE LEADS SHOULD STAY WITH THEM IN THE HOPE THEY MAY STILL BE HIRED, BUT CEASE EFFORTS TO GENERATE LEADS FROM SCRATCH. ON OTHER HAND, THERE ARE FAIR NUMBER NON BLOC TECHS IN CUBA AND IT LIKELY CUBANS WILL CONTINUE TO HIRE THEM ON LIMITED SELECTIVE BASIS AS THEY DID PRIOR ZAPRIMA PROGRAM. STATIONS THEREFORE ARE URGED TO CONTINUE ALERT FOR SUCH OPPORTUNITIES AND TO EXPLOIT THEM IN SAME MANNER ALL OTHER OPPORTUNITIES TO PLACE RESIDENT AGENTS IN CUBA.

GROUP 1
RELEASING COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000
INFO
PAGE THREE
INFO
3
ROUTINE
CITE DIR 85387

IN THIS CONNECTION WE NOTE THAT MOST PERUMEN OFFICIALS RESPONSIBLE FOR RECRUITING TECHS TEND TO RELY HEAVILY ON LOCAL CP STAMP OF APPROVAL OR OTHER STRONG INDICATION THAT CANDIDATE IS POLITICALLY ACCEPTABLE. LACKING THIS THEY MAY EITHER IGNORE THE APPLICATION OR REJECT.

RESPONSE OF HOST STATIONS IN IMPLEMENTING ZAPRIMA HAS BEEN MOST GRATIFYING WE PROVIDED CUBANS WITH GOOD NUMBER HIGHLY QUALIFIED ENGINEERS AND TECHNICIANS WHICH THEY FOR REASONS CITED UNABLE OR UNWILLING TO ACCEPT, KUBARK HAS MADE A RESPECTABLE EFFORT TO EXPLOIT THIS OPPORTUNITY AND FACT THAT WE HAVE NOT ACHIEVED SIGNIFICANT RESULTS IS MORE REFLECTION CUBAN CONFUSION AND INEPTITUDE WITH RESULTANT FAILURE ACHIEVE THEIR OWN GOALS.

DISCONTINUE USE ZRPŘINA SLUG AND FILE 200-120-

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT. *Cable pre-dates CS files. Copy may be seen in CIA reference file.

RELEASING OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFICE

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000
FROM DIRECTOR.
INFO: 000, 4001
FILE NO
PAG
INFO: SAS/TOB, SAS/HOB, WR/S, CATS, C/ES, RC Loebe, Alringile
ROUTINE
CITE 85387
