```markdown
14-00000

104-10209-10019
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: 201-289249
INCLUSIVE DATES:
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:
ROOM:
DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
---|---|---|---
Dec. 75 | Dec. 75 | Betsy Wolf | Betsy Wolf

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET
(When Filled In)

January 30, 1975
(date)

Review of 201 File on U.S. Citizen

In accordance with the DDO's notice of 9 December 1974, I have reviewed the 201 file on [redacted] (surname) (201 number indicated below), and have determined that it can most accurately be categorized as indicated below:

*   [ ] Should be closed. (If this category applies, affix Records Officer stamp.)
*   [ ] Unwitting collaborator. OI Code A7. Explanation:
*   [ ] Witting collaborator. OI Code A1.
*   [ ] Potential witting collaborator; date opened: OI Code A2.
*   [ ] Former witting collaborator (relationship terminated). OI Code A3.
*   [ ] Potential witting collaborator never contacted. OI Code A4.
*   [ ] Counterintelligence case (i.e., involving a foreign intelligence or security service). OI Code A5.
*   [x] All others. OI Code A6.

Signed: [redacted]
(name) (title) (component)

This assignment of category has been entered into STAR.

30 JAN 1975
(initials) (date)

This document is a permanent part of this file. 201-289249 VOL I FIL

CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET
(When Filled In) E2 IMPDET CL BY 061475

FBI doc.
21 Dec. 1961 (Wash)
RE: Semen Spiridon Pohorilyj
Bufile: 105-93295
DBF-96946

FBI doc.
30 Nov. 1961 (Buffalo)
RE: Semen Spiridon Pohorilyj
Bufile: 105-93295
DBF-95895

DISPATCH
TO: Chief of Station, Austria.
INFO: O/WE, O/SR, O/EE, COS/Paris, S/G, S/2/Germany
FROM: Chief of Base, Salzburg
SUBJECT: REDWOOD/LCONTROL/AFBSCM-1 Semen POHORILIW
ACTION REQUIRED
REFERENCES: Vienna, please make appropriate number of prints from attached negative.
EASA-5566
HEADQUARTERS FILE NO: 201-289249
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO: 29-6-106/3
DATE: 24 November 1961
RE: 43-3 (CHECK ONE)
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED BY QUALIFIED HQ DESK ONLY

a. DM-10664, 23 May 1961
b. DATA-20253, 19 July 1961 (not to Germany or Paris)
c. SAGA-155, 7 August 1961
d. EAVA-28594, 4 October 1961

1.  References b., c. and d. contain OMA's instructions to Salzburg regarding identifying Subject; our initial reply stating there was no information in CF files; and Vienna's permission to run unilateral police traces through GREY-1, respectively.

2.  GREY-1's initial report (received on 11 October 1961) states that Semen POHORILYJ - born 2 February 1910 in Cherkassy/Kiev, married, teacher, Ukrainian citizen, resided at the refugee camp in Siezenheim, Salzburg, from 13 July 1946 to 23 August 1950. Prior to 15 July 1946 he lived at the Hellbrunn refugee camp in Salzburg. According to police records Subject left Salzburg for the United States on 23 August 1950.

3.  Additional information in the form of a photographic copy of the official police registration card and a negative of an identification photograph of Subject, both dated 7 November 1947 reveals that Semen POHORILYJ - born 2 February 1910 in Przemysl, is a Polish citizen, married, teacher, 176 cm tall, gray eyes, blond hair, oval face, no prominent or identifying features.

    The date on the registration card presumably indicates the date on which Subject was first officially registered by the Salzburg police.

4.  We are returning to Vienna the photograph sent us under reference b. for their retention. We have also attached the identification negative noted in the preceding paragraph. Would Vienna please make prints for SR and Paris and attach them to their copies of this dispatch.

Attachments: H/W

Distributions:

*   2 - Vienna w/photo & negative
*   2 - SR w/photo
*   2 - EE w/o Att.
*   2 - Paris w/photo
*   2 - CARDG w/o Att.
*   2 - COS/G w/o Att.

MAXWELL E. UTTERIOR

SECRET

Att to EASA 5566
To: Chief SR
From: Chief of Base, Salzburg
201-289249
24 Nov 61

FBI doc.
24 Oct. 1961 (Wash.)
RE: Semen Spiridon Pohorilyj, aka
Bufile: 105-93295
DBF-92203

FBI doc.
18 Oct. 1961 (Philadelphia)
RE: Semen Spiridon Pohorilyj
Bufile: 105-93295
DBF 92487

SECRET

TO: Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Attention: Mr. S. J. Papich

FROM: Deputy Director (Plans)

SUBJECT: Semen Spiridon POHORILYJ also known as Semen POHORILIW Internal Security - R

1.  Reference is made to previous correspondence from this office regarding the subject and to your file number 105-93295.

2.  An official French liaison source reported in early September 1961 that Antin NYCZPORUK received a letter with the return address: (fru) DIALNAWSKY, 63/N. 7 SA. (sic) Philadelphia 23, Pa. The address was also received from an official U.S. source as 13/N 7 SA. but this is believed to be a typographical error. It has not been possible to verify the address as the envelope was not photographed but was passed routinely from the post office to NYCZPORUK. The letter was not tested for secret writing.

3.  The files of this Agency contain no identifiable information on DIALNAWSKY. It is possible the address should be 631 North Seventh Street, Philadelphia, which is the one used by POHORILIW, according to information from your Bureau. This is the home of Dmytro WASYLASZUK, Secretary of the Ukrainian Workingman's Association and the residence may be used for meetings of that organization.

4.  We would appreciate any information in your files on DIALNAWSKY.

CSCI-3/767,673

SR/CI/RED:LLyons:CH 11 Oct 61

Distribution:

*   Original & 1 - Addressee
*   1 - C/CI
*   1 - CI/R&A
*   1 - CI/Liaison
*   1 - SR/CI/P/DL
*   1 - RI/files (201-289249)
*   1 - Comeback
*   1 - SR/CI/RED

SECRET

DISPATCH

TO: Chief of Base, Salzburg
INFO: Chief, EE; Chief, SR
FROM: Chief of Station, Austria
SUBJECT: REDWOOD/LCTIMPROVE/AEDOGMA-1 Semen POHORILIW
ACTION REQUIRED

REFERENCES: EASA-5495 dated 7 August 1961

1.  The IRO files, we understand, have been moved to Germany (International Tracing Service) or are in the process of moving. This makes such a check inadvisable, if not impossible.

2.  A GREPPIGY-1 check would not be objectionable even though he, in turn, makes a police check.

DATE: 4 October 1961

Distribution:

*   2 - COB, Salzburg
*   1 - Chief, EE
*   1 - Chief, SR
*   1 - 201-289249
*   1 - Registry

MATTHEW H. CHUBB

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TO: DIRECTOR
FROM: PARIS
ACTION: SR 6
INFO: CI, CI/OPS, FI, WE 4, S/C 2

DIR CITE PARI 7937
REDWOOD LCIMPROVE
REF DIR 11988 (OUT97023) (IN 26002)

ADDRESS GIVEN IN PARI 6667 AS RECD FROM UNBOUND. BELIEVE HQS ASSUMPTION REF CORRECT. ADDRESS ALSO RECD FROM FEDERAL AS 13/N 7 SA BUT THIS BELIEVED TYPO ERROR. IMPOSSIBLE TO VERIFY AS UNBOUND DID NOT COPY PHOTO ENVELOPE WHICH PASSED ROUTINELY FROM P.O. TO NYCZPORUK.

C/S COMMENT: \*NO TRACES DIALNAWSKY.

DISPATCH

TO: Chief, SR
INFO: Chief of Station, Germany; Chief, EE
FROM: Chief, Munich Operations Group
SUBJECT: CAMOG/REDWOOD/LC IMPROVE/Operations Identification of Picture
ACTION REQUIRED

REFERENCE(S): EGMW-10664, 23 May 1961

Both AETRAPEZE and AEMERCURY-2 were shown the picture forwarded with the reference. Neither recognized the picture as being of anyone they had ever seen.

HADLEY B. ALLENSWORTH

APPROVED:

HOWARD E. TAPHORN

Distribution:

*   1 - SR
*   1 - EE
*   2 - COS/G

ORIG: LOUISE LYON
UNIT: SR/CI/RED
EXT: 1534
DATE: 11 SEPTEMBER 1961

TO: PARIS
FROM: DIRECTOR

INFO: CI, CI/OPS, FI, WE 4, S/C 2

REF: PARI 6667 (IN 26002)

1.  NO HQS TRACES. ASSUME ADDRESS IS 631 NORTH SEVENTH STREET, PHILADELPHIA ALSO USED BY POHORILIW, ADVISE. ACCORDING ODENVY THIS HOME OF DYMTRO WASTLASZUK, SECRETARY UKRAINIAN WORKINOMENS ASSOCIATION AND MAY BE USED FOR MEETINGS THIS FRATERNAL ORG. HQS OPINION ADDRESS MAY ALSO BE USED BY UKRAINIAN MEMBERS UWA.

2.  WILL ADVISE ODENVY WHEN CORRECT ADDRESS RECEIVER FROM FARI.

C/S COMMENT: Requested traces on DIALNIAWSKY, Philadelphia correspondent of Antin NYCZPORUK, Suspect RIS.

DATE: 8 SEP 61

TO: DIRECTOR
FROM: PARIS

INFO: CI, CI/OPS, CI/IC 2, S/C 2

REF PARI 2329 (IN 40864)

UNBOUND SURVEILLANCE ANTIN NYCZPORUK REVEALED RECEIPT LETTER WITH RETURN ADDRESS: DIALNAWSKY, 63/N.7 SA. PHILADELPHIA 23 PA. REQUEST TRACES.

C/S COMMENT: \*CABLE PRE-DATES CS FILES: COPY MAY BE SEEN IN SIGNAL CENTER ARCHIVES.

FBI doc.
21 Aug. 1961 (Philadelphia)
RE: Semen Spiridon Pohorilyj
Bufile: 105-93295
DBF 86583

DISPATCH

TO: Chief of Station, Austria
INFO: Chief, EE; Chief, SR
FROM: Chief of Base, Salzburg
SUBJECT: REDWOOD/LCIMPROVE/AZILARCHA-1 Semen POHORILIW
ACTION REQUIRED

We passed on your request concerning Subject to the local chief of USFP. He checked his files and found no traces. He suggested that the old IRO files might have something. Checks of these files are normally done by a local investigator of SR. We request permission to bury Subject's name in a short list of names which the local investigator would then be asked to check in the old IRO files. Also, please indicate whether we should try to check this out through GERMICIDE-1, who presumably would check with the Salzburg police.

DATE: 7 August 1961

Distributions:

*   2 - Vienna
*   2 - EE
*   2 - SR

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: SR/2/CE
Attention: R. I. Perkins
SUBJECT: Photo Identification Semen POHORILYJ
2 August 1961
C-61-1144

The photograph of Semen POHORILYJ was shown to Reino HAYHANEN, who stated he did not recognize the subject. The photograph is attached.

J. M. EVANS
C/CI/OPS/SCVSAT

Enclosure: Photograph

\* on 31 July 1961

FBI doc.
22 June 1961 (Philadelphia)
RE: Semen Spiridon Pohorilyj
Bufile: 105-93295
DBF 80925

DISPATCH

TO: Chief of Base, Salzburg
INFO: Chief, SR; Chief, RE
FROM: Chief of Station, Vienna
SUBJECT: REDWOOD/LCIMPROVE/AEDOGMA/1 ACTION REQUIRED
REFERENCE(S): EMBI-10664, dated 23 May 1961 See below

Chief of Base, Salzburg is requested to check USP and any other appropriate files on Subject of reference (a copy of which is herewith attached for Salzburg). The principal object of this exercise is to determine whether the person shown in the attached photograph is identical with Subject. As a minimum please ascertain the addresses at which Subject lived in Salzburg from 1945 to 1950. Depending on what you find, we can then derive some unilateral method of confirming the identity of the attached photo.

DATE: 19 July 1961

L. Pareer

Attachments:

*   A) Copy EMBI-10664, b/w
*   B) Photo (SC

Distribution:

*   2 - Salzburg, w/atts.
*   2 - SR, w/o atts.
*   2 - EE, w/atts.
*   1 - Reg., w/atts.
*   3 - File

LJF/ejn

LIAISON UNBOUND contact reports
SUBJECT: Antin NYCZYPORUK
OFFA 59215
13 June 1961

UNBOUND 11and JENTON's weekly meeting 9 June 1961

Gave him poop on Antin NYCZYPORUK. It was too late in the PM to get hold of UNSOUND 27 or anyone who would be in on the working level and he said he would take it up with them in the afternoon and that we could then get together and discuss means of action.

SECRET

TO: Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Attention: Mr. S. J. Papich

FROM: Deputy Director, Plans

SUBJECT: Semen POHORILIW

1.  Representatives of the FBI Laboratory have been previously briefed on the KEMPOTE TEST which was believed had been used when working on the POHORILIW letter and which established the presence of SW on the letter.

2.  We have now been advised by a field representative that a modified version of this process was actually used and it is possible that the SW is detectable by this version of the test, but not by the regular test of which your Bureau has the details.

3.  It should be noted that our work on known systems revealed two cases exhibiting the same type of fleeting detection as was noted on the POHORILIW letter. This, of course, does not mean that the POHORILIW letter is written in one of these systems, but merely that fleeting detections can occasionally be expected with this variation of the KEMPOTE TEST.

4.  Agency headquarters laboratory has not completed a comparison of the original and modified KEMPOTE procedures so as to confirm the finding of our field laboratory that the modified test is more sensitive. It is being provided to your Bureau at this time, however, since it is a technique which has been used successfully in a current case.

CSCI-3/765,739

Attachments: KEMPOTE TEST (Modified)

cc: TSD - Dr. Colin Reid (w/o attachment)
CI/Liaison/JARoman/nfr (2 June 61)

Distributions:

*   Orig & 1 - Addressee
*   1 - TSD
*   1 - SR/Rita Perkins
*   1 - RI
*   1 - CI
*   1 - CI/R&A

DISPATCH

TO: Chief, WE
Attention: Chief, SR
FROM: Chief of Station, Paris
SUBJECT: REDWOOD/LCIMPROVE/AEDOGMA ACTION: For Your Information
REFERENCES: OFPV 30647, 19 May 1961

1.  AEDOGMA was shown the photograph attached to Reference and said he did not recognize the face.

2.  AEDOGMA stated that he knew no one other than NYCZPORUK in contact with POHORILIW, when the subject was raised later, in another context.

WALLACE H. HAVEDON
1 June 1961

Distributions:

*   1-SR
*   2-WE

ORIG: RITA PERKINS
UNIT: SR/2/CE
EXT: 2080
DATE: 23 MAY 1961

TO: PARIS
FROM: DIRECTOR

INFO: CI, CI/OPS, CI/IC 2, CI/OA, FI, WE 4, S/C 2

RE: PARI 4365 (IN 34016)

1.  ODENVY HAS NO OBJECTION STA INFORMING UNBOUND POHORILIW CASE PROVIDING POHORILIW NOT IDEN BY NAME.

2.  PLS FORWARD FOR HQS PASSAGE ODENVY ANY UNBOUND INFO PEPRIME ASPECTS CASE.

C/S COMMENT: POHORILIW US RESIDENT WHO SENT LETTER CONTAINING S/W TO ANTIN NYCZYPORUK IN PARIS.

DISPATCH

TO: Chief, Munich Operations Group; Chief of Station, Germany; Chief of Station, Paris
INFO: Chief, SR
SUBJECT: REDWOOD/LCIMPROVE/AEDOGMA/1 ACTION REQUIRED: Show photograph to appropriate sources
REFERENCE(S): EMBI-10664

1.  Attached is a photograph of Semen POHORILIW, which we would like shown, without ID, to appropriate unilateral sources for possible identification.

2.  FYI: POHORILIW's name appears as the sender of a letter containing secret writing to Antin NYCZYPORUK in Paris, France. The letter was sent in care of Dmytro GNYP, other Ukrainian resident of Paris. GNYP, in November 1960, said AEDOGMA/1 to deliver the letter to NYCZYPORUK who was confined to a mental sanitarium near Paris. GNYP told AEDOGMA/1 that he (GNYP) and NYCZYPORUK had been involved with Vasiliy MYAKUSHKO (Soviet assigned to UNESCO and the case officer of the arrested emigre Grigory DEMYDCZUK), and therefore GNYP feared coming to the attention of the French police by delivering the letters to NYCZYPORUK. KROPAZ analysis revealed the presence of the s/w in the letter from POHORILIW, but failed in attempts to develop the s/w. ODENVY and Paris Station are now investigating this case; therefore, in your reply please send an information copy to Paris.

3.  The following in biographic information on Semen POHORILIW.

    a. dob: 2 February 1910
    b. pob: Czerkasy, Ukraine
    c. parents: Spiridon and Alexandra nee IUCZENKO POHORILIW
    d. education: seven years elementary school and one year teachers' school
    e. residence:
    USSR 1924 to 193
    Poland 1943 and 1944
    Czechoslovakia 1944 and 1945
    Salzburg, Austria 1945 to July 1950
    United States July 1950 to present
    f. physical description: c. 1951, 5'10", 175 pounds, grey eyes and fair complexion.

Attachment: Photo herewith

16 May 1961

Distribution:

*   2 - MOB, w/att.
*   2 - COS, Vienna, w/ ATT
*   2 - COS, Paris
*   2 - COS, Germany
*   1 - SR/3
*   1 - EE
*   1 - WE/3

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation

SUBJECT: Semen Spiridon POHORILYJ aka PORORILIV Internal Security - R

1.  Reference is made to memorandum from this office, CSCI-3/764,636 of 24 April 1961, and to your memorandum of 3 May 1961, file number 105-93295.

2.  As reported in referenced CSCI memorandum, a letter purportedly from Subject was tested for secret writing. Secret writing was seen by one technician and its presence confirmed by another technician. However, the message had disappeared before a third technician could observe it. The technician who tested the letter has said that only one line of hand-printed secret writing was distinctly visible. There were traces of S/W on other parts of the letter but this was very indistinct. The cover letter was in longhand. The disappearance of the writing did not permit photography or recording of any part of the S/W message.

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR (PLANS):

CSCI-3/765,321

Distribution:

*   Orig & 1 - Addressee
*   1 - C/CI
*   1 - SR/RISB/DL (dummy copy)
*   1 - CI/Liaison (dummy copy)
*   1 - CI/R&A (dummy copy)
*   2 - SR/2/CE

SR/2/CE/Rita Perkins:bbh 19 May 1961

DISPATCH

TO: Chief of Station, Paris
FROM: Chief, EE via Chief, WE
SUBJECT: REDWOOD/LCIMPROVE/AEDOGMA ACTION REQUIRED: Show attached photo to AEDOGMA/1.
REFERENCE: OFPW-30103, 17 March 1961

1.  In answer to our request of ODENVY to compare the handwriting of Semen POHORILIW with that attributed to him in the letter to Antin NYCZYPORUK, ODENVY has informed us that at this time they do not have sufficient specimens of POHORILIW's handwriting to reach any conclusion.

2.  ODENVY has furnished us with the attached photograph of Semen POHORILIW. We suggest that this photograph, unidentified, be shown to AEDOGMA/1 for possible recognition. We are sending this photograph to MOB, also, for showing to appropriate sources.

Attachment: b/w Photograph

Distribution:

*   3 - COS, Paris (w/att.)
*   2 - WE/3
*   2 - SR/2/CE

DATE TYPED: 12 May 61

FBI doc.
11 May 1961 (Wash.)
RE: Semen Spiridon Pohorilyj, aka
Bufile: 105-93295
DBF 76343

FBI doc.
3 May 1961 (Wash.)
RE: Semen Spiridon Pohorilyj, aka
Bufile: 105-93295
DBF 75098

FBI doc.
21 April 1961 (Philadelphia)
RE: Semen Spiridon Pohorilyj
Bufile: 105-93295
DBF 75201

TO: Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Attention: Mr. S. J. Papich

FROM: Deputy Director (Plans)

SUBJECT: Semen POHORILIW Internal Security - R

1.  Reference is made to your memorandum of 28 February 1961 on Subject.

2.  We plan to discuss with French Liaison the receipt by Dmytro GNYP and Antin NYCZYPORUK of the letter containing secret writing from Subject, who will be identified to the French only as a resident of the United States. We believe such a discussion is desirable in view of its pertinence to the current investigation of the intelligence activities of Vasiliy MYAKUSHKO (member of the Soviet delegation to UNESCO from April 1957 to August 1960). If such a discussion would adversely affect your interest in POHORILIW, please advise us as soon as possible.

CSCI-3/765,058

SR/2/CE/Rita Perkins:bbh 20 April 1961

Distribution:

*   Orig & 1 - Addressee
*   1 - CI/R&A
*   1 - CI/Liaison
*   1 - CI/OG/SOV
*   1 - 201-289249
*   1 - 29-6-106/3
*   1 - SR/RISB/DL
*   2 - SR/2/CE

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TO: DIRECTOR
FROM: PARIS
ACTION: SR 6
INFO: CI, CI/OPS, CI/IC 2, FI, WE 4, S/C 2, CI/OA

REF: DIR 33187 (OUT 91903)

1.  STA WISHED EXPLORE TELLING UNBOUND THAT GNYP AND NYCZYPORUK HAD RECEIVED S/W MAIL FROM UNNAMED SOURCE IN PBPRIME. SINCE UNBOUND STILL INTERESTED MYAKUSHKO CONTACTS, MIGHT PROFITABLY PUT MAIL COVER ON G AND N

2.  STA THEREFORE ASKED ODENVY REP OPINION WHETHER ODENVY HAS INVESTIGATION OF POHORILIW WOULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED IF ABOVE INFO RE G AND N GIVEN UN BOUND.

3.  ODENVY REP STATES HE CABLED QUERY TO HIS HQS RE ABOVE.

RE REF:

A. "PBPRIME ANGLE REFERS TO INVESTIGATION OF POHORILIW WHICH IS ASPECT OF CASE MOST DIRECTLY TOUCHING ODYOKE INTEREST.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

PAGE 2 IN 34016 PARI 4365

B. MADE NO REF "LIVE LETTER DROP".

C. LOOSELY REFERRED TO KUBARK'S "PENETRATION OF CORRESPONDENCE CHANNEL". THIS INACCURATE AND MAY HAVE BEEN TAKEN MEAN WE INTERCEPTED MORE THAN ONE LETTER IN POHORILIW-NYCZYPORUK CORRESPONDENCE. ODENVY REP AWARE OF SECOND LETTER (FROM USSR TO N WHICH NOT FOUND CONTAIN S/W) INTERCEPTED BY AEDOGYA, BUT DID NOT MENTION IN HIS CABLE.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: "ODENVY REQUESTED CLARIFICATION FOLL POINTS.

A. WHAT MEANT BY WORD ANGLE IN STA QUERY WHETHER DISCUSSION CASE UNBOUND WOULD INTERFERE WITH PBPRIME ANGLE.

B. STA ALLUSION LIVE LETTER DROP PBPRIME.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TO: PARIS
FROM: DIRECTOR

INFO: CI, CI/OPS, CI/IC 2, FI, WE-4, S/C 2

RE DIR 26906 (OUT 77202) OFPW 30103

1.  ODENVY ASKS FOR CLARIFICATION FOLL POINTS CONFUSION ARISTEG PROM ODEHVY PART REPORT MEETING WITH STA CH POHORILIN CASE:

    A. WHAT MEANT BY WORD ANGLE IN STA QUERY WHETHER DISCUSSION CASE WITH UNBOUND WOULD INTERFERE WITH PBPRIME ANGLE;
    B. STA ALLUSION LIVE LETTER DROP PBPRIME;
    C. REP TO MORE THAN CHE LETTER.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: \*RECOMMEND NO ACTION PARI THIS TIME. (RE POSSIBLE REPATRIATION NYCYPORUK).

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: Semen POHORILIW - Internal Security R

FROM: CSCI-3/764,636

TO: Officer designation, room number, and building

1.  CSR/2/CE
2.  CSR/2
3.  SR/RISB/DL
4.  SR/COP/SI
5.  CI/OG/SOV
6.  C/CI/OG
7.  DC/CI
8.  CI/Liaison
9.  RID/FI
10. D/SAN
11. RID/MIS

COMMENTS:

*   In view of FBI investigation of subject believe FBI should have this info.
*   This is case on which I sent you memo re TDS/whandling.

TO: Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Attention: Mr. S. J. Papich

FROM: Deputy Director (Plans)

SUBJECT: Semen POHORILIW Internal Security - R

1.  Reference is made to the following correspondence:

    a. Bureau report of 14 February 1961, made at Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and Subject as above;
    b. Memorandum from Deputy Director (Plans), Subject as above, dated 9 January 1961, and numbered CSCI-3/763,211;
    c. CIA Teletype, Subject as above, dated 16 November 1960;
    d. CIA Teletype, Subject as above, dated 17 February 1961.

2.  We would appreciate being informed whether or not you have had an opportunity to compare the hand writing of Semen POHORILIW and that of the letter bearing his name and address, which we sent to you with reference 1.b..

3.  In a review of our files we note that the lack of elaboration in our earlier correspondence might cause your Bureau some difficulty. Our statement in reference 1.c. that the POHORILIW letter bore indications of secret writing was based on the findings of our technical staff. One of our technicians applied a test that permitted him to see writing which, although it was not legible, could be seen to be other than that of the overt text. This writing remained visible long enough for another technician to confirm its presence. There have been reports that our source is considered by the Soviets to be American controlled. Thus it was considered that, if this letter were a Soviet intelligence communication, it was likely the Soviets would consider the operation compromised when our source's possession of the letter was reported. For this reason, we decided it was best to forge a copy of the POHORILIW letter and make every attempt to develop any secret writing it contained. Unfortunately, we were unable to do so, and the original letter was destroyed in the process. As we reported in reference 1.d. on 8 or 9 January 1961 our source delivered to Antin NYCZYPORUK the forged copy of the POHORILIW letter. To date there has been no report of any reaction to NYCZYPORUK's receipt of the forgery.

CSCI-3/764,636

SR/2/CE/Rita Perkins:bbh 29 March 1961

Distribution:

*   Orig & 1 - Addressee
*   1 - CI/R&A
*   1 - CI/Liaison
*   1 - C/CI
*   1 - RID/FI
*   1 - SR/RISB/DL
*   2 - SR/2/CE

DISPATCH

TO: Chief of Station, Paris
INFO: Chief, SR via Chief, WE
SUBJECT: REDWOOD/AEDOGMA ACTION REQUIRED: FYI
Reference: DIR 26906

1.  ODENVY has informed us that neither the release of Antin NYCZYPORUK from the mental sanitarium nor his repatriation would affect their investigation of Semen POHORILIW.

2.  CDURGE files contained following information on Subject: He was born 2 February 1910 at Cherkasy, Ukraine. His parents, now deceased, were Spiridon and Aleksandra nee IUCZENKO. Subject attended elementary school for seven years and teachers' school for one year. He resided in the USSR 1924 to 193; in Poland, 1943 and 1944; in Czechoslovakia, 1944 and 1945; and in Salzburg, Austria, from March 1945 to July 1950. His last residence in Salzburg was at Camp Hellbrunn. In July 1950 he was granted a visa to the United States as a displaced person. At that time he stated his destination in the United States was the home of Pavlo KLYKHEKO in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He entered the United States in September, 1960. In July 1951 he filed a Declaration of Intention to become a United States citizen. At that time he was residing at 933 North 7th Street, Philadelphia, and was employed as a polisher. His physical description in 1951 was 5'10", 175 pounds, blond hair, gray eyes and fair complexion.

3.  According to ODENVY in January 1961 Subject was residing at 931 North 7th Street, Philadelphia, in a home owned by Dmytro WASYLASZUK and Paraska CLEKSIUK. WASYLASZUK is a member of the Supreme Council of the SP163 Ukrainian Workers Association.

FBI doc.
28 Feb. 1961 (Wash.)
RE: Semen Spiridon Pohorilyj
DBF 69970

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TO: PARIS
FROM: DIRECTOR

INFO: CI, CI/OPS, FI, TSD 4, WE 4, S/C 2

RE: PARI 3664 (IN 46263)

INFO AND ASKED IF RELEASE AND OR REPATRIATION HYCZYPORUK WOULD AFFECT POHORILIN CASE. ODENVY INTERIM REPLY NON COMMITTAL BECAUSE DELAY THEIR INVESTIGATION. THUS RECOMMEND NO ACTION PARI THIS TIME.

C/S COMMENT: REF ASKED IF HQS DESIRED ART PARI ACTION RE POSSIBLE REPATRIATION NYCZYPORUK.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TO: DIRECTOR
FROM: PARIS

INFO: CI, CI/OPS, WE 4, S/C 2

REF: OBCI 3/763, 211

1.  LETTER DELIVERED NYCZYPORUK 8 OR 9 JAN. NYCZYPORUK READ LETTER IMMEDIATELY AND GAVE NO INDICATION HE SAW ANYTHING