14-00000

104-10109-10320 [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

22 APR 71

NC 149

TO : HDRS

FROM : SAC MFG

PRIORITY

SUBJ: SUPPORT IN PINSIST SEAL - LINDERMAN KEY. (LIAR'S LAIR) - 219 000 F 50/11

ATTENTION: MR. ENE

RE: Contact with William Losner on 22 APR 71.

1. ABOUT 0630 HRS ON 22 APR 71, MR. WILLIAM LOSNER, SENIOR VP, BANK OF PERRINE AND A CLEARED AND WITTING CONTACT OF THIS AGENCY FOR MANY YRS, RPTD A LONG DISTANCE PHONE CALL FROM LES WHITAKER, ASSOCIATE OF JACK ANDERSON. WHITAKER INQUIRED AS TO LOSNER'S ASSOCIATION WITH THIS AGENCY AND RECENT ALLEGED ACTIVITIES OF AGENCY AT LIAR'S LAIR OF LINDERMAN KEY, LOCATED ABOUT EIGHT MILES SE OF HOMESTEAD AFB ACROSS BISCAYNE BAY.

2. LOSNER DENIED KNOWLEDGE OF AND ASSOCIATION WITH THIS AGENCY. RPTD HE IS OFFICER IN CORP WHICH LEASED LIAR'S LAIR FROM UNIV OF MIAMI SEVERAL YRS AGO. (THIS IS TRUTH AND EITHER SITE FOR CORP HAS PRESENT ASSOCIATION WITH THIS AGENCY). HE ALSO RPTD THAT ONLY ACTIVITY THERE WAS CORP WORK FORCE REBUILDING AT OLD PIER DURING LAST WEEKEND.

3. LOSNER SPECULATES THAT WHITAKER MAY HAVE OBTAINED HIS INFO FROM STATE CORP ROLLS. ALSO, SOMEONE WITH PAST KNOWLEDGE OF AGENCY

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

PAGE TWO OF NC 149
219 000

ACTIVITIES AT LIAR'S LAIR MAY HAVE OBSERVED THE WORK FORCE OVER THE PAST WEEKEND AND FALSELY ASSOCIATED ACTIVITY WITH THIS AGENCY. INFO FEELS ANDERSON AWARE OF AGENCY'S PAST INTEREST IN KEY THROUGH DISCLOSURES OF CAPT BRAD AYRES.

4. THIS INFO PASSED TO VENON. SUGGEST HDQS PASS TO WH.

END OF MESSAGE

THANKS

PRIORITY
