104-10308-10054
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASSIFIED
ACTION:
INFO

SAS NOTIFIED AND COPY
DOP, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/II 3, CAVE 2, S/CA

SECRET 221152Z
OPEN DIR INFO PRITY HAVE FRAN HALL CITRINGO TO
RYBAT TYPIC CALL
IN22657

1. ALEB 29 NET (IN ROTJ BY VARKBOLD AND ARLE 1 ON 23 APR
HE EXPLAINED THAT HE DID NOT RECRUIT IDEN AS PLANNED BECAUSE,
WHEN B TOLD HIM IDENA IS NOW BEING WATCHED CLOSELY DUE HIS RECENT
ATTEMPTS TO DEFECT FROM MILITARY. A 29 HAD NO FREE TIME TO GO
AND MAKE AN ASSESSMENT (DUE SERIOUS ILLNESS MOTHER
AND HIS REQUIRED PRESENCE ABOARD SHIP DURING REPAIRS).

2. TUFO IN REF OBTAINED BY AHLEB 29 FROM IDEN C. REQUEST,
TRACES, SHE IS FORMER GIRL FRIEND OF ARLEB 29 AND PARENTS ARE
NEIGHBORS. SHE VERY ACTIVE IN RESISTANCE GROUP WHOSE NAME SOUNDS
LIKE FRENTE LIBERACION NACIONAL FRENTE LIBERACION ESCAMBRAY
A 29 SEES HER IN HAVANA EACH TIME HOME ALTHOUGH SHE SPENDS CIRCA
TWO OF EVERY THREE WEEKS WITH GRANDPARENT IN MATANZAS.

3. A 29 CERTAIN IDEN C WOULD ACCEPT RECRUITMENT BY HIM TO
WORK WITH ODYOKE VARKBOLD SEEING HIM AGAIN EVENING 23 APR.
REQUEST OPIN PERMISSION PRIOR NEXT MEETING WITH A 29 TO INSTRUCT
HIM TO RECRUIT IDEN C. TRAIN AND GIVE HER SV AND ACCOMMODATION
ADDRESS PREVIOUSLY PLANNED FOR IDEN

SECRET
GROUP

13-00000
ACTION:
INFO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE.
SECRET
STALT
(SAS NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT: 1035, 22 APR LIG)
DOP, ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/EE 3, C/II 2, S/CA 2
SECRET 221152Z
XE DIR INFO PRITY HAVE FRAN HALS CITE (HABU 3696
RYBAT TYPIC CALL
HAGU 3695 (22657)

2. IDEN AS ANTONIO CONCEPCION.
IDEN B: 22 APR 1953 IN22624
MANUEL JUSTO MUINOS, BROTHER-IN-LAW OF ANTONIO
CONCEPCION. SEE PREVIOUS INFO OR (MUINOS) FROM ANLEB 29.

IDEN C. NORMA FLORES, DOB CIRCA 39, RESIDES WITH MOTHER AND
FATHER AT CALLE NO. 18332, ENTRE PRIMERA Y SEGUNDA, RESIDENCIAL
MONTERREY, SAN MIGUEL DEL PADRON, GUANABACOA, HAVANA.
RESIGNED
FROM JOB AS TEACHER IN (UNIVERSITY OF VILLANOVA IN HAVANA IN 62.
HAD PBPRIME VISA PRIOR BLOCKADE BUT BLOCKADE NULLIFIED CHANCE TO
LEAVE.

FATHER FORMER SERGEANT IN BATISTA ARMY NOW GARDENER.

SISTER, (NANCY FLORES, DOB CIRCA 36, IS OFFICE CLERK IN LA ISLA DE
CUBA DEPARTMENT STORE, HAS APPLIED FOR PBPRIME VISA.
GRANDFATHER
AND UNCLE LIVE IN MATANZAS.

SECRET
14/12/
GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN-
