‘it04-10070-10009] (2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CROFILMED
PIR 3 1968
MICRO. SER.

9 March 1968
TO : COS/Mexico City
FROM : Douglas J. FREAPANE
SUBJECT: Status Report, Project (LIOGLE/LIMIX) Covering Period
1 February thru 29 February 1968

A: Mexico

I. ACTIONS TAKEN: (1) LIMIX-1 prepared and published 5,000 copies of the monthly LIMIX political newspaper for distribution in offices of the PRI in Mexico City and to selected officials in the provinces. Copies are included as Attachment A to this report. This issue contains good photographic coverage of the national convention of the PRI; an article on page 3 which is based on previous speeches by the new President of the PRI; Alfonso MARTINEZ Dominguez; a series of interviews with political and intellectual figures regarding MARTINEZ Dominguez on page 4; an article boosting the future leader of the federal workers union, Prof. Edgar ROFLEDO Santiago, on page 13; and, a "plug" for the Olympics on the back page, in addition to other serious and light features of general interest. (2) LIMIX-1 also prepared the monthly ideological magazine supplement (see Attachment B) which contains the inaugural speech of the new President of the PRI and the new PRI "oficial mayor", Fluvio VISTA Altamirano, and which is included as an insert with the Attachment A newspaper. (3) LIMIX-1 provided the Station with information from very reliable sources on the reasons for the dismissal of Lic. Francisco GALINDO Ochoa from his post in the Presidency and on what the government expects of MARTINEZ Dominguez in the PRI. (4) (IDENTITY A and LIMIX-1) continued a close relationship with ex-Deputy Salvador PADILLA of Flores who is supposed to be a good friend of the new President of the PRI. (5) The representative of the Municipal Government of Mexico City (in Atzcapozalco Ing. Raul GARZA Montemayor) provided (the IDENTITY A group with a second office, also located in a building owned by the Municipality. (6) The (IDEN A group continued, now with official support, to organize athletic events, show motion pictures provided by QKFLOWAGE and the West German embassy and activities related to organization of PRI youth activities in this zone of Mexico City (Atzcapozalco). (7) The (LIMIX "Ateneo" headed by IDENTITY B suffered a "temporary loss" of its TV programs and (IDEN B) was busy trying to find governmental contacts with sufficient power to force Channel 11 to return the TV time to the "Ateneo". (LIMIX-1) believes the loss was caused by the dismissal of GALINDO Ochoa from the Presidency (GALINDO) had given (IDEN B) un-official support in his relationship with the TV Station management. It is believed that (Ateneo) time can be recovered; however, (IDEN B) is also investigating the possibility of obtaining time on a commercial TV channel and a radio station. (8) (IDEN B) and (LIMIX-1) continued cultivation of Lic. Esteban RUIZ Ponce who is employed as a "secretario adjunto" to Lic. Joaquim CISNEROS of the Private Secretary of the President of Mexico. (LIMIX-1) also had several meetings with Private Secretary of CISNEROS, Lic. Rafael MINOR.

-2-

(9) (LIMIX-1) prepared, published and distributed 3,000 copies of the (Attachment C) monthly IPN student publication which included an interview with the new President of the Federación Nacional de Estudiantes Técnicos (FNET), Jose CEBREROS, on page 6, several articles provided by QKFLOWAGE and the West German embassy as well as other material of interest to IPN students. The CEBREROS interview was an "exclusive". (10) (LIMIX-1) was able to obtain one of the 2,000 "tickets" available for the national convention of the PRI, and attended both day's meetings. (11) (LIMIX-1) provided the Station with a report on the FNET Congress and his participation therein. As a result, a close friend of (LIMIX-1) (Ramiro AGUIRRE Garin) was named (Private Secretary of) the President of the FNET, and (LIMIX-1) was named one of the advisors of the FNET President. (12) (LIMIX-1) continued contact with a variety of political personalities with the objective of being able to penetrate the new PRI headquarters.

II. ACTIONS PENDING: The major pending action is the establishment of a penetration and/or friendships within the PRI once the situation in PRI headquarters has solidified to some degree. For example, Lic. Juan MALDONADO sits in a sort of "limbo" at this date, neither out of his job, nor confirmed in a job. However, it would appear that the LIMIX mechanism has at least five channels into the new PRI national executive staff which are being developed for appropriate utilization. A separate report will be prepared on these channels into the PRI national. Other channels exist to provide contacts within the PRI Regional headquarters for Mexico City, but nothing can be done until current officers are retired and the new men appointed.

III. INDICATIONS OF EFFECTIVENESS: As reported in paragraph I, #3, 5, 10 and 11.

IV. ADMINISTRATIVE NOTES: Nothing new to report.

V. SECURITY SITUATION: No security problems were encountered.

VI. AGENT MEETINGS: Meetings between FREAPANE and LIMIX-1 were held on a weekly basis in a restaurant.

VII. REMARKS: While student operations are no longer the priority of operations of this project, FREAPANE continues to encourage LIMIX-1 contact with the IPN student politicians because of the continuing, and even increasing political problems caused by far left student agitation, thus providing WOFIRM with a continuing possibility for intelligence gathering and political action in this field.

Prepared on 9 March 1968 by:
DOUGLAS J. FREAPANE
