14-00000
104-10169-10265 [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE: FEB 15 2347Z 61

FROM: WAVE

TO: BELL

INFO: COP, ADDR/A, WH 3, BELL S/C

PRIORITY

PRITY BELA CITE WAVE 3691
GNZIP/AMDIP-3/ANHAZE

1. AMDIP-3 COURIER ARRIVED WAVE AREA FROM HABANA 14 FEB.
INFORMED A-S HE ON WANTED LIST AND DUE TO SECURITY INCIDENT HIS RADIO
LINK TEMPORARILY CUT OFF.

2. SEVERAL DAYS AGO A-S S/H RAIDED BY G2. HOUSE LOCATED NEAR
13TH AVE AND 198 ST, BILTMORE, HABANA AND OCCUPIED BY [ADREA,
"LQUISA" GIQUEL]. [GIQUEL] PICKED UP AND DETAINED 48 HOURS. HOUSE
CONTAINED ONE VIKING II RADIO, 2 HAND GENERATORS-GN58, A-3 CODES
AND MSG FILES; NONE FOUND DURING SEARCH WHICH APPARENTLY ACCOUNTS
FOR [GIQUEL] RELEASE.

3. AGENT 2515 DISPATCHED TO HABANA LEGALLY ON 12 FEB WITH
ORDERS TO CONTACT [GIQUEL] ABOUT 14 OR 15 FEB AND JOIN A-S MOVEMENT
LINE TO ESCAMBRAY AS W/T OPR FOR OSVALDO RAMIREZ GROUP.

4. DUE [GIQUEL] INCIDENT ZABOTH INSTRUCTED AGENT 2517, WHO
DEPARTED WAVE LEGALLY FOR HABANA ON 14 FEB, TO CONTACT 2515
ON ARRIVAL AND WARN HIM AVOID CONTACT A-S GROUP AND LAY LOW UNTIL
HE GIVEN FURTHER INSTRUCTIONS BY S/W.

5. WAVE AND A-S CONSIDER IT ESSENTIAL ESTABLISH SECURE COMMO
BETWEEN WAVE AND A-S GROUPS. PROPOSE DISPATCH AMJAVA-4 BY BLACK
SEA INFILTRATION TO CUBA FOR THIS PURPOSE. INFILTRATION PLANNED

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.
4/20

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
WAVE 3591
PAGE 2

BETWEEN 17-19 FEB. JAVA/2 AND 3 TO ACCOMPANY A-S SOONEST SECURE
RECEPTION ARRANGED.

END OF MESSAGE
SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
