```markdown
14-00000

[104-10187-10003] [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

COMMERCIAL PLACEMENT AT HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: KDBADGER Vol. III
Support
KDBADGER
50-6-75/2
SUPPORT

INCLUSIVE DATES: 25 Jan 1962 - 13 Nov 1964
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: LA/000
ROOM: 3634
DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE
RECEIVED
RETURNED
REVIEWED BY
(PRINT NAME)
SIGNATURE OF
REVIEWING OFFICIAL

6/26/75
6/27/75
11/15/6/26
11/20/78
HARDWAY
Dawn Hardway
D. HARDWAY
D. HARDWAY
HARDWAY
HARDWAY

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.
LIENVOY SUPPORT
JANUARY 1962 - DECEMBER 1964
50-6-75/2

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000
FORM 2-65
2593

NOTICE

THIS FILE HAS BEEN PROCESSED AND RETIRED. DO NOT
ADD ANY DOCUMENTS TO THIS FOLDER. FORWARD CS
DOCUMENTS THAT SHOULD BE INCLUDED IN THIS FOLDER
TO IP/RPU GE-58.

NOTICE
CONFIDENTIAL

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000
ORIG: C. Bustos-Videla
UNIT: WH/1
EXT: 4506
☐ INDEX
☐ NO INDEX
MESSAGE FORM
SECRET

DATE: 13 NOVEMBER 1964 FILE IN CS FILE NO. 50-6-75/2

TO: MEXICO CITY
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: WH 8
INFO: DDP, ADDP, CI/IPS, OS 2, VR, FILE

ROUTING
SIG CEN

TO PRIORITY
MEXI
INFO
LITEMPO
REF: MEXI 1538 (IN 20864)

CITE DIR
64003

1. ONLY POSSIBLY IDENTICAL TRACES MRS SHAPIRO ARE IN HMM 191
AND HMMA 2525. ODIBEX REPORTS 1948 WHICH CANNOT BE LOCATED (BELIEVED
ONLY REPORT TRAVEL BETWEEN MEXI AND US) REPORTSON ROSA ACKERMAN DE
SHAPIRO BORN BOZALIA RUSSIA ON 8 MARCH 1909 (MEXI GOVT SHOULD HAVE
FILE ON HER).

2. ONLY PROBABLY IDENTIFIABLE TRACE LIPPMAN WAS KUTWIN CENSORSHIP
REPORT 1942 WHICH LISTS HIM AS CONNECTED REAL ESTATE AND CONTRACTING
FIRMS NEWARK NEW JERSEY. HE WAS CONNECTED WITH INDUSTRIAS DE DEFENSA
IN HABANA CUBA WHICH WAS DESCRIBED AS UNDERTAKING PROMOTIONAL SCHEMES
INVOLVING SHIPBUILDING, DOCK FACILITIES, AND DEFENSE WORK.

3. KUSODA IS MAKING LOCAL CHECK. AFTER OBTAINING HUSBAND'S
FIRST NAME AND SOME BACKGROUND WILL CHECK VOLUMINOUS FNU
SHAPIRO TRACES RI AND CARDS ON HUSBAND. UNLESS ADVISED CONTRARY DO
NOT PLAN CHECK ODENVY, ODURGE OR ODIBEX. IF THESE AGENCIES WOULD
HAVE INFO WE WOULD HAVE TO REQUEST SPECIFIC PERMISSION PASS TO
MEXI OFFICIALS.

END OF MESSAGE

COORDINATING OFFICERS
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER

SECRET
Lienvoy
GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy No.

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000
ORIG: C. Bustos-Videla
UNIT: WH/1
EXT: 4506
☐ INDEX
☐ NO INDEX
DATE: 13 NOVEMBER 1964 FILE IN CS FILE NO.

MESSAGE FORM
ROUTING

TO:
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: WH 8
INFO:

CITE DIR
64013
PAGE TWO
TO
INFO

WH COMMENT: *LITEMPO-2 requested info on SHAPIRO and LIPPMAN
who reside New Jersey and who are suspected espionage
agents.

RICHARD HELMS
DDP
C/WH
JOHN HORTON
C/WH/POA

COORDINATING OFFICERS
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER

SECRET
GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification

REPRODUCTION OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy No.

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000
ORIG: C. Bustos
UNIT: WH/1
EXT: 4506
DATE: 31 AUGUST 1964
MESSAGE FORM
☐ INDEX
SECRET
☐ NO INDEX
☐ FILE IN CS FILE NO.

TO: MEXICO CITY
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: WH8
INFO: CCS3, OP2, VR

ROUTING
CITE DIR
46309
INFO:
MEXI
REF: DIR 44882

1 SEP 64 IN 15792
RUTSAY ETA 8 SEPT EAL FLIGHT 305. NO NEED MEET, REQUEST
RESERVATIONS. WILL PHONE AREHART DIRECTLY.

END OF MESSAGE

WH COMMENT: *Ref gave AREHART instructions for Hqs contact re
his travel to U.S.

DESMOND FITZGERALD
C/WHD
W. J. KAUFMAN
C/WH/1

COORDINATING OFFICERS
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER

SECRET
GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy No.

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000
DATE: 14 AUGUST 1964
MESSAGE FORM
☐ INDEX
SECRET
☐ NO INDEX
☐ FILE IN CS FILE NO. 7506, C1/1c2, VR Bustos

TO: MEXICO CITY
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: WH
INFO: C1/1c2, VR

ROUTING
DEFERRED
MEXI
LIENVOY/TECHS
REF: HMMT-4748

CITE DIR
42430
NEWTON T. RUTSAY AVAILABLE FOR TDY 10 TO 23 SEPT. ETA FOLLOWS.

END OF MESSAGE

WH/Pers/Benthall (by phone)
C/TSD/AOB/Yoch (by phone)

DESMOND FITZGERALD
C/WHD
J. KAUFMAN
C/WH/1

COORDINATING OFFICERS
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER

SECRET
GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy No.

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000
10 August 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Technical Services Division
ATTENTION: Chief, TSD/AOB
SUBJECT: Request for TDY Replacement for Arnold F. AREHART.

1. WH Division requests your cooperation in providing a
TDY replacement for Arnold F. AREHART as Case Officer and
technician for the LIENVOY tap center in Mexico City. AREHART
has requested three weeks home leave, from 10 to 23 September,
to drive his older son to the States to enroll him in his
freshman year of college. AREHART has kept his leave plans
to a minimum so that his TDY replacement will need to be on
loan from Headquarters for as short a time as possible.

2. The Division had offered to provide an operations
officer as a TDY replacement but Mexico City Station has re-
quested that a technician be sent instead since the burden of
AREHART's job is the maintenance of equipment along with the
protection of CIA's interests inside the LP. WH Division sug-
gests that your release of Mr. Charles Deck for this assign-
ment would be ideal if he is available, as no overlap would
be required since he is already knowledgeable of this opera-
tion. The Station was also very pleased with the work done
by Mr. Deck on his last TDY to Mexico.

3. Because of the critical role the LIENVOY Project
plays in the Station's whole operational picture, and because
of the importance the smooth-functioning of the LP is to our
liaison with top-level Mexican officials, your assistance is
requested. If Mr. Deck is not available, any other suitable
candidate would be acceptable. Please inform Mr. Bustos,
WH/1/Mexico, X-4506, -4507 of your decision, as we would like
to be able to inform Mexico as soon as possible as to whether
a TDY replacement will be available.

Desmond FitzGerald
Chief
Western Hemisphere Division

--- Page 8 ---

14-00000
DDP/WH/DF/CBustos:kte (10 August 1964)

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee
1 - WH/Registry
1 - WH/1/Mexico
1 - WH/1/Mexico (LIENVOY/Support)

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000

DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

Chief of Station, Mexico City
Chief, WHD
PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING

SUBJECT: Replacement for Arnold F. AREHART (NP)
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
Reference: HMMA-12750 dated 1 July 1964

1. Arnold F. AREHART (NP) would like to depart from Mexico on 10 September
1964 for home leave and return about 26 September 1964. He does not wish further
delay since it will be necessary to take his younger son out of school. His older
son will be entering college in the United States which is the reason AREHART
requested leave at this time.

2. A technician would be preferable to an operations officer as a temporary
replacement for AREHART.
In view of the importance of the smooth functioning of the
LP and the protection of our interests with top-level Mexican officials,
it is requested that Headquarters release a technician. If a technician is not
available, it is requested that Headquarters release a operations officer with some
Spanish; this, however, will be better than no replacement at all.

3. It is requested that Headquarters be advised as soon as possible whether
a replacement will be available for AREHART.

Distribution:
2 - C/WHD
Willard C. Curtis

CROSS REFERENCE TO
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
DMT-4743
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
ORIGINATING
DATE
28 July 1964
HOS FILE NUMBER
53-6-75/2

--- Page 10 ---

14-00000

DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
Chief of Station, Mexico City
Chief, WHD

SUBJECT: Replacement for Arnold F. AREHART during Home Leave
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
Reference: HMMA 23522

1. Referenced dispatch which reflected the Station's apprecia-
tion of Newton T. RUTSAY's high level of performance during his
recent TDY in Mexico and requested his return TDY was brought to
the attention of the appropriate KURIOT officials.

2. Unfortunately, RUTSAY will not be available to replace
AREHART during the latter's home leave period in the fall of 1964,
and KURIOT has no one else they can release for a prolonged period
this fall. Since the leave probably will only be about two months,
Headquarters wonders whether a technician is absolutely required.

Does the Station believe that an operations officer, with some
Spanish and who could merely take over the administrative work and
make the Station contacts, could fill in during this period?

3. We are not sanguine that a replacement can be made avail-
able particularly since the man will of necessity need to be
"exposable" to liaison, but will try our best to find one. In the
meantime, please forward the exact dates it is desired the hoped
for man should be in Mexico to allow for adequate overlap.

Chester P. DAINOLD

Distribution:
2 - COS, Mexico City

CROSS REFERENCE TO
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
HAMW-12741
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
ORIGINATING
C. Bustos-Videla: KTF
DATE
17 JUL 1964
HOS FILE NUMBER
50-6-75/2

DATE
COORDINATING
RELEASING
OFFICER
TSP/AOB
INITIAL
Du
WH/1
PREVIOUS EDITION
53 USE
DISPATCH

--- Page 11 ---

14-00000

DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
Chief of Station, Mexico City

Chief, WH Division
PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING

SUBJECT: LIENVOY SUPPORT
ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

MICROFILM
1. Arnold F. AREHART asked that his TDY replacement
inquire at Headquarters regarding the status of his request
for equipment which the Station forwarded to Headquarters as
Requisition No. 359-19-64. Headquarters has shipped to
Corpus Christi the items he requested in connection with
the Revere (shipped 20 April), and the Heath and Allied items
were shipped on 7 May. The Ampex and B-10 items have not yet
been received at Headquarters from the supplier. Headquarters
will pouch all items from these that weight and size will
permit, the remainder will have to be shipped to Corpus
Christi. In view of the equipment listed in LGIS 6020,
18 May 1964, which is also awaiting pickup at Corpus Christi,
perhaps there will be a flight soon.

2. It is requested that the above information be
passed to AREHART.

Chester D. DAINOLD

Distribution:
0&1 - COS, Mexico City

CROSS REFERENCE TO
CS COPY
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
HMMW-12611
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
ORIGINATING
WH/3/Mexico/C. Bustos:chk
DATE
27 MAY 1964
HOS FILE NUMBER
50-6-75/2

OFFICE
OFFICER
TYPIST
INITIAL
Distribution:
ROUTING
RID/
CFFICE SYMBOL
DATE
C/WHD
P. Pike (draft)
EXT.
5940
RELEASING
OFFICER'S
NAME
Desmond FitzGerald
FORM
53 USE PREVIOUS EDITION
1 DISPATCH

--- Page 12 ---

14-00000
SECRET
26 May
26 May 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, TSD/AOB
SUBJECT: LIENVOY TDY Report

1. TDY support of the LIENVOY operation in Mexico
City was provided by this office during the period 23 April to
15 May 1964. The Staff Agent, ARNOLD F. AREHART who manages
this operation underwent surgery for a hernia on the 24th of April.
The undersigned assumed the responsibilities and performed the
duties associated with the LIENVOY operation during AREHART's
convalescence. He was incapacitated for duty from 23 April until
12 May. His operation was successful and recovery was normal.
AREHART returned to work on 12 May in a weakened condition and
three days of overlap was allowed to provide assistance with
the more strenuous and tiresome chores.

2. The LIENVOY Installation was found to be in
excellent condition. The operating personnel were well disciplined
and their procedures were well organized. The daily work was
being accomplished in a business like and efficient manner.
AREHART has done a commendable job in establishing and main-
taining this highly productive operation.

3. The equipment in this installation has been in use
fifteen hours a day for over four years. As the result of good
maintenance practices it is in good shape and functioning well.
The minor difficulties encountered during the shake down period
have been overcome and equipment maintenance and repair pose
no significant problem There was no loss of coverage on any
line during the three week TDY.

4. The following observations and recommendations are
included herein to improve KURIOT services to the Field and to
acquaint responsible officers with technical discrepancies.

A. Pertinent technical information is not being
communicated to AREHART.

--- Page 13 ---

14-00000

B. The drying up of the ball point pens in the B-10,
Dial Recorder has been a constant nuisance since
the beginning of this operation. The pressure
sensitive tape was the obvious answer to this
problem, but the first ten rolls of pressure
tape were received after nearly four years of
struggling with the defective pens. It is
recommended that pressure sensitive tape be
supplied to this operation for future use.

C. The ten rolls of pressure sensitive tape
received during this TDY were wound back-
wards on their spindles.

D. The tires on the idler wheel of the B-10 are
drying and cracking and fail to obtain adequate
traction on the flywheel. This causes tape
feed problems. It is recommended that three
dozen new idler wheels be pouched to AREHART
immediately. Several of the defective idler
wheels are available in this office for
inspection.

Charles O. Deck
TSD/AOB

Distribution:
Original & 1 - Addressee
1 - TSD/AOB/OSS/WH
1 - WH/3/M 3B0003/Charlotte Bustos
1 - TSD/LOG
1 - TSD/AOB/TRO
Charles O. Deck/3330/jlm

--- Page 14 ---

14-00000
559-19-64
B/10 Parts
12 each K-2 Feed Solenoids - Electric
SH-) Bianoply icon ratifiord, fo
IN 1695.
12 each K-2 Feed Solenoids 1970- Viview composed to live.
Small Springs for Drive Motor Special.

AMPEX PARTS,
12 each R-107 Central 5-011-121
Alignments Tapes--lart 1 6 3.3
prox. 2 wichs &
Ada Spack.
Spock.
Trying
for
24 May, but not phim.
C-203 Motor Capacitors, Linctrelylic 2,3, 220 V.
R-202 Resistors. 20k pho
2 each
4 each
J-201-8 lge
54 each
PF-101-P Plug
4 each
ench
P-102-s Plug
J-202-P Pluge
'6 each
+6 each

REVERE PARTS
36
Spare pressure pads TR-2601.
16 each
12 each
12 each
TEST EQUIPMENT:
Instant Stop arm (ne type
olen i no guid
Tape counter drive bolts --11101
Take up belts 74-7809
Heathkit Catalog
Fall and
Inter 1962-1963
oathkit Transistor teste
- Capacitor Checker
Visual-Aural Signal Tr cor
Oscilloscope
>Scope Demodulator prob kit
Low Capacity scope Prob
Harmonic Distortion uter
Resistance subsitution Box
> Condonner Subsitution 0x
Allied Catalog # 220--1963
Page 197
3 each TS-AJ Tipo Splicers
12 oach TS-45 TapaSplicers
6 each splicing Tape
Splicing Tape
beach
Page 323
Cat # R280-195
Put BOK-107
"
BOR-203 18-377 3/2 Jach
80K-155 ST-500--1/2 Inch
Resist-0-Chest 2M-788 mfd type number 43
"
"
May
Tago 394.
Cable Spincing cord
59491-246
1/2 lb.
Leaning
22
Jan-44

--- Page 15 ---

14-00000
TO: DIRECTOR
FROM: MEXICO CITY
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
ROUTING

ACTION: WH 8
INFO: DDP, SOD 6, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CA/O 4, CI, CI/OPS, CI/OA, FI,
FI/INT 2, SAS 8, VR

SECRET 1519242
DIR INFO CARA CITE MEXI-7782
REF EMBTEL 1583 DATED 14 JAN 64 IN 99238

1. NOTE CHARGE BOONSTRA REPORT OF VICENTE SANCHEZ GAVITO (MEXICAN
AMBASSADOR TO OAS) CONVERSATION IN WHICH SANCHEZ GAVITO SAID
"VENEZUELAN PROBLEM IS CRITICAL FOR GOVERNMENT OF MEXICO. ALTHOUGH
FONOFF HAS NOT SEEN ANY OF THE EVIDENCE ON ORIGIN ARMS CACHE,
SAID FONOFF HAS RECEIVED RELIABLE INFORMATION TO THE EFFECT EVIDENCE
OF CASINO ORIGIN IS CONVINCING."

2. BELIEVE “RELIABLE EVIDENCE" LIKELY THAT GIVEN TO LITENSOR
BY SAMUEL K. CASTELON IN DECEMBER BRIEFING.

SECRET
Support
Lienvoy
SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
Copy No.

--- Page 16 ---

14-00000
CONTROL AND COVER SHEET
FOR
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TIME REC'D CABLE SECI
1700
ROUTED
TO
DCI
D/DCI
AD/CI
DD1
AD/NE
DOP
ADOP
CISAS
C WH
LIMIT DISTRIBUTION-S/S TELEGRAM OR LIMIT DISTRIBUTION MEMORANDUM
DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION:
DEPTEL 1071 to Mexico City

ATTENTION ALL RECIPIENTS: THE STATE DEPARTMENT HAS FURNISHED TO THE DIRECTOR, CENTRAL
INTELLIGENCE, ONE COPY OF THE ATTACHED DOCUMENT. REPRODUCTION IS PROHIBITED. THE CABLE
SECRETARIAT HAS ROUTED THIS DOCUMENT AS SHOWN TO THOSE WHO HAVE A NEED TO KNOW. EACH
INDIVIDUAL WHO SEES THIS MESSAGE SHOULD SIGN AND INDICATE THE DATE OF HANDLING. THIS
COVER SHEET MUST BE KEPT ATTACHED TO THE DOCUMENT UNTIL THE DOCUMENT IS DESTROYED. THE
COVER SHEET MUST BE RETAINED BY THE RECIPIENT FOR 30 DAYS AFTERWHICH IT MAY BE DESTROYED
WITHOUT ANY RECORD OF DESTRUCTION.

SIGNATURE OF PERSON SEEING TELEGRAM
DATE
18 Dec 63
CS/RF
file
RETAIN COVER SHEET FOR 30 DAYS
EXP FORM BY
CABLE SEC, O/OCI, 17 Apr 63

SECRET
GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN
GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

--- Page 17 ---

14-00000
326
SO TELEGRAM Department of State
INDICATE COUR
☐ CHARGE TO
33
Origl
SS
ACTION:
AMEMBASSY MEXICO CITY
AMEMBASSY RIO DE JANEIRO
AMEMBASSY CARACAS 577
IMMEDIATE 1071
IMMEDIATE 829
IMMEDIATE
DEC 17 63
LIMIT DISTRIBUTION S/3
CARACAS PASS WARD ALLEN
035
FYI. 1. In connection Venezuelan complaint to OAS,
discussions in Standing Group of NSC have identified two
alternatives for cooperative system surveillance and interception
of vessels and aircraft engaged in transporting arms for subversive
purposes to Latin America (especially Caribbean area) directly
or indirectly from Cuba. Difference between alternatives centers
on need for OAS authorization for use of force in international
waters.

2. Alternative A would require OAS authorization use of
force in connection with visit-and-search in international waters
against selected Cuban vessels and selected vessels OAS countries.
It would be a cooperative system of surveillance and interception
involving visit-and-search in international waters on a selective
basis, with force to be used if necessary.
Visit-and-search and,
if resistance met, force would be applied by naval units of US
or of cooperating OAS countries against selected vessels suspected
of transporting arms from Cuba, directly or indirectly.

Drafted b
ARA/CCA: JHCrimmins: or/ars 12/12/63
Man
Clocramon
FORM
0-03
DS-322
clication approved by
White House Mr. Bundy
S/S:Mr. McKesson
SECRET
REPRODUCTION FROM THIS COPY IS
PROHIBITED UNLESS "UNCLASSIFIED"

--- Page 18 ---

14-00000

Page 2 of telegram to AMEMBASSY MEXICO, RIO AND CARACAS

3. Alternative B would not require OAS authorization
use force inasmuch as visit-and-scurch would take place only
within territorial waters. It would be a cooperative system of
surveillance and interception involving visit-and-search only
within the territorial waters of an OAS country, with force to be
applied, if necessary, by that country's forces or by forces of
another OAS country acting under a bilateral agreement. Control
of suspect vessels destined for non-OAS country or territory
(e. g. British Guiana) would depend on cooperation that county.

4. In both alternatives interception or seizure of
suspect aircraft would be carried out only in territory of OAS
country of destination by forces of that country or of another
OAS country acting under a bilateral agreement.

5. Comparison of alternatives:
(a) Alternative A would be much harder to sell to
OAS countries than Alternative B because authorization for use
of force required.

(b) Alternative A would be somewhat more effectiv
both in fact and as deterrent than Alternative B, although both
can be circumvented.

(c) Alternative A would constitute harassment of
Castro whereas Alternative B is purely defensive.

(d) Alternative A would incur substantially
greater risks of escalation than Alternative B.
SECRET

--- Page 19 ---

14-00000

Page 3 of telegram to Ambassies MEXICO CITY, RIO
INFO: CARACAS

(e) Alternative A would be more expensive in terms of US units
required than Alternative B.

6. Kind and number of tional measures which we would seek in
OAS would vary with choice between alternatives. For example, our
tentative thinking is that minimum OAS package acceptable to US under
Alternative A would be: authenation use force; condemnation Castro
regime; and reaffirmation & à invigoration anti-subversive measures.
Under Alternative B, mini package now estimated to be: defensive
system with search enn seizure within national territory; condemnation;
reaffirmation anti-subversion; and obligatory break in air
and surface communications between OAS countries and Cuba.

7. We consider attitude Mexico and Brazil critical. OAS vote
authorizing use force in which one or other did not join would be
politically undesirable. END FYI.

8. Action requested
Chief of Mission should take first opportunity of conversation
with FonMin on other matters to explore discreetly and informally
indicating he acting personally and without instructions the probable
receptivity of COM (COB) to an OAS resolution authorizing use force.

Ambassador should proceed on assumption report OAS investigation committed
strongly
SECRET

--- Page 20 ---

14-00000

Page 4 of telegram to Amembassies MEXICO CITY, RIO: INFO: CARACAS
SECRET

strongly confirms Venezuelan charges and will be basis propaganda
campaign to alert OAS governments and public opinion.
Report soonest.

GP-3
END
SECRET
BALL

--- Page 21 ---

14-00000
PRED
MEXICO
12 December 1963

TELLO SCORES OAS POLICIES, CUBA EXCLUSION
Havana in English to Europe 2020 GMT 11 December 1953--E
FBIS

(Text) Mexico City--Mexican Foreign Minister Manuel Tello criticized
the Organization of American States, saying that it is in a state of
crisis. Tello also criticized the exclusion of Cuba from that
organization. In the interview with the Mexican daily NOVEDADES,
Foreign Minister Tello said that Cuba's exclusion from the OAS is not
in conformity with the OAS charter. He said that the charter does
not contemplate the exclusion of any member state.

Referring to the present international situation of the OAS, Tello
emphasized that an organization which does not base itself on friendship,
cooperation, and tolerance is likely to face a crisis. The Mexican foreign
minister stated that in the present state of the OAS, the elements or
bases for the organization to strengthen democracy do not exist. He
pointed out that contrary to agreements adopted at Chapultepec and
Bogota, almost all the present Latin American representatives to the
OAS are also their countries' ambassadors in Washington.

JAUREGUI INTERCEDES FOR BOLIVIA HOSTAGES
Lima AFP in Spanish 2337 GMT 11 December 1963--
(OFFICIAL USE ONLY)
(Excerpts) Mexico City--Arturo Jauregui, secretary general of the
Regional Inter-American Workers Organization (Organizacion Regional
Interamericana de Trabajadores--ORIT), sent a personal request to Bolivian
Vice President Juan Lechin on behalf of the foreigners held at Catavi
as hostages.

The cable says: "I appeal to your labor union principles in the name of
the 28 million ORIT member workers in favor of the hostages. These
persons are well known as democrats working in favor of the spirit of
humanity and social economic progress. The Bolivian revolution," the
message adds, "demands that its prestige and vindication be held high."

-0-

DIPLOMAT'S RETURN--Swiss Ambassador to Mexico Fernand Bernoull returned
to Mexico after several months' absence. (Mexico City Radiodifusora
Comerciales Spanish 2033 GMT 10 December 1963--P)

PUEBLA BUDGET--The Puebla municipal budget for 1944 shows an increase
of 51 million pesos over that of the current year. (Mexico City Ra-
diodifusora Comerciales Spanish 2033 GMT 10 December 1963--P)

--- Page 22 ---

14-00000
FERR 1

PANAMA
12 December 1963

PLAN OF TERRORISM IS UNFOLDING
David La Voz del Baru in Spanish 2100 GMT 11 December 1963--P
(Station commentary)

(Text) It appears as if a preconceived plan of terrorism, not known
before in Panama, has been unleashed since members of our armed forces
were at Fort Gulick. The barbarous death of labor leader Aguilar,
beaten and kicked in Puerto Armuelles; the beating of Indian labor
leader Palacios Salines; the denunciation through a newspaper of a
labor leader who was hanged and beaten in Colon; another case in
Boquete; and many other known cases constitute pathetic proof of the
plan.

If the objective of the wave of persecution is to attack the ideas of
men with bullets, sticks, imprisonment, and other similar measures,
it is a stupid move, because ideas are fought with ideas. If some
of the humble class try to protest in defense of their rights, they
are called communists. The privileged classes have used frequently
this pretext against the working classes. If we analyze the situation
we will see how the privileged classes have maintained their own
monopolistic organization.

The oligarchic groups have greatly increased. Yesterday they could be
represented in the two or three existing parties which were directed
and governed by them; today, they have seen the need to increase the
number of political parties, as much as 20 in a small country, in order
to control the public administration. Each party is formed by a
privileged family whose only wish is to continue its life of leisure
and luxury. This kind of life calls for plenty of money, so in order
to obtain the money they need they increase each day the taxation
of the poor, who must pay and thus sink deeper into poverty, disease,
and ignorance.

If the people do not have work, they cannot earn money; and if they
do not have money they cannot pay taxes. If the people try to
organize in self-defense, they are accused of being communists,
and they are fought with sticks. If the cause of all the evils
of democracy is communism, the solution is obvious. We all know who
invented communism, and who is living according to it and upholding it.
The way to fight communism is to open sources of work to build schools,
hospitals, and better roads.

--- Page 23 ---

14-00000
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
FROM: DIRECTOR
ACTION: C/WH 5 (TEMPO FOR WH SLOTTED AT 2050-16 DEC 63)
INFO: ADOP C/CI, C/FI 2, VR

ROUTING
SECRET 173113Z.
PRIORITY DIR CITE MEXI 7418
RYBAT
ATTN GALBOND
REF MEXI 7400 (IN81653)
NO NIGHT ACTION
16 Dec 63 IN 8 18 18

1. PEAK AND COS MET WITH LITENSOR ALONE AND WITHOUT SINGLE
INTERRUPTION FOR ONE HOUR.

2. MEETING AT LITENSOR HOME.

3. LITENSOR INTENSELY INTERESTED, PEAK DID EXCELLENT PRESENTATION
OF ENTIRE STORY.

4. LITENSOR SAID HE HAD VERY LIMITED KNOWLEDGE OF STORY
FROM VENEZUELANS" PRIOR TO THIS BRIEFING. HE WAS CONVINCED REPEAT
CONVINCED THAT CASTRO GUILTY AND SAID AT END "CUBAN COMMUNISTS
WILL NOT STOP WITH THIS DEFEAT".

5. LITENSOR BEING GIVEN COPIES OF PAPERS AND PHOTOGRAPHS BROUGHT
BY PEAK; HE INDICATED WISHED TO USE THESE.

6. NO MENTION OF ANY BRIEFING OF TELLO BY ANY OF THREE.

7. BOTH PEAK AND COS BELIEVE BRIEFING SUCCESS.
SECRET

Lienvoy
SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
Copy No.

--- Page 24 ---

14-00000
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
FROM: DIRECTOR
MEXICO CITY
ACTION: C/WH 5 (WH CD NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT 1615-16 DEC 63)
INFO: ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, VR

ROUTING
SECRET 162007Z
PRIORITY DIR CITE MEXI 7406
RYBAT
REF: MEXI 7391 (IN80849)
ATTENTION: GALBOND

1. LITENSOR RETURNED MEXI LATE MORNING 16 DEC.

2. COS AND PEAKE HAVE APPOINTMENT WITH LITENSOR 1645 HRS
MEXICAN TIME ON 16 DEC "FOR AS LONG AS YOU WISH".

3. WILL ADVISE.
SECRET