14-00000
104-10237-10120
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

16 June 1964

SYNOPSIS

Per his request, 2nd Lt. Oliverio Antonio TOMEU Vasallo was recontacted 8 June 64 at his place of residence. He provided additional details on (Carlos) and (Ana Gloria de VARONA). He identified Osiel GONZALEZ and one "COCO" as possible leads to Jose LLARUZA Gobel.

14-00000

SECRET

15 June 1964

CONTACT REPORT

SUBJECT: Recontact of Oliverio A. TOMEU Vasallo. (201-283206)

1. At 1730 hours, 8 June 64, the undersigned was advised at his residence that a Mr. TOMEU (Subject) had called the security number given him (351-6161) and left the message that he would like to talk again with Paul Stroud (the undersigned) anytime after 1800 hours, 8 June.

2. Upon arriving at TOMEU's apartment (Apt. 303, 1028 Vahler Place SE, High Point Apartment House, Washington, D. C.), 1830 hours, 8 June, TOMEU indicated to his two daughters he would like to have some privacy and they and his wife, Caridad, left the apartment.

3. TOMEU apologized for not having recalled the name as "VARONA" as that of Ana Gloria de VARONA. He reiterated that, while in hiding to escape capture by the Cuban Government subsequent to his infiltration, he knew only the first names of the persons with whom he came in contact, but then added he knew Ana Gloria de VARONA, in whose house he was hiding, because she was the sister of Carlos de VARONA, one of his infiltration team members. (This Carlos de VARONA may be identical with one Carlos Manuel de VARONA Segura, 201-289383; or one Carlos Arturo Arjona, 201-283209.)

4. On several occasions, according to TOMEU, he was seated at the table in Ana's house with several other people. One of these individuals, known to TOMEU only as "COCO," was described as the secretary to Jose LLARUZA Gobel. There were not, however, any discussions in which TOMEU recalls LLARUZA or his political sympathies having been discussed. According to TOMEU's recollection it was "COCO" who was associated with LLANUZA, and he was not aware of any relationship between "COCO" and LLARUZA. Although TOMEU had no information as to what finally happened to Carlos de VARONA, his infiltration team mate, he suggested that if Carlos or Ana were available they may be able to identify "COCO" and provide data on his accessibility for contact.

5. One Carlos GONZALES, former Chief of the Havana Fire Department, was identified by TOMEU as another possible lead who would know LLANUZA. TOMEU affirmed Osiel was previously with MENOYO Gutierrez in the Second Front of Escambray. Osiel was under asylum in the Brazilian Embassy (sic, Argentine Embassy?), when TOMEU gained political asylum. When Osiel finally received his safe conduct from the Embassy, he went to Puerto Rico and, TOMEU postulates that Osiel is now again with MENOYO in either the United States or Puerto Rico.

6. Two snap shots (to be returned) were provided by TOMEU of himself and six other individuals who were in asylum at the same time. He identified these, in the photograph in which Monsignor Eduardo BOZA Masvidal is seated, as, from left to right: (Manuel VILLAMANAN, Oliverio TOMEU, Nils DIAZ (believed to be in US), Publio RUIZ (US), Jorge Del VALLE (Mex?), and Osiel GONZALEZ (US or Puerto Rico?).

7. Upon completing the debriefing, Stroud and TOMEU "exchanged small talk" for a while until TOMEU finally stated that he still wished there was something more he could do to help free Cuba, and asked "What do you think I should do?" Stroud replied that no person could really make that type of decision for another individual, and countered by asking TOMEU what alternatives he had in mind, other than remaining in the US Army as a career military officer.

8. TOMEU replied that, of course, he was once an agriculturalist, but that there were few job opportunities in which he could apply his past experience. His sister had also asked him if he felt he and his family would want to live with her in Spain or Mexico, but he didn't think too much of this idea. He then stated that he had been asked by Manuel ARTIME to take a job as an instructor. Without indicating any association of even awareness of ARTIME's activities, or of ARTIME's contact with TOMEU (as indicated in TOMEU's 201), TOMEU was asked what he thought of ARTIME's proposition. TOMEU stated that he would no longer follow any man as an individual or as a leader, because a man's ideals, outlook, and objectives change with time. For example, the people of Cuba followed Fidel because of the ideals he advocated. When Fidel took over, his accomplishments gradually became quite different from the ideals he had espoused. TOMEU continued by saying he would "no longer follow a man. One could only trust his ideals or an organization which followed those ideals, since a good organization would be less likely of being controlled by a single man." When asked for an example of the type of organization he had in mind, TOMEU replied he was most favorably inclined towards the ideals and goals of the JURE. (The JURE or JRC is an organization created by Manolo RAY Rivero around a nucleus of former 26 July Movement leaders. See memo and attachment dated 23 July 1963 from John Hugh Crimmins, Coordinator of Cuban Affairs, ARA, Department of State in TOMEU's 201-283206.)

SECRET

Includes item automatically
downgrading and
declassification

SECRET

It should, perhaps, be noted here that in an informal exchange with Mrs. Donald WEBSTER, TOMEU's supervisor at the Defense Language Institute, Anacostia Naval Annex, 4 June 64, Mrs. WEBSTER volunteered the information that "all of the other Brigade students here' have told me they think very highly of TOMEU, and that he is a very brave man, because he and his family were very wealthy in Cuba and he gave it all up to go into exile and fight the Castro Regime."
