104-10215-10035
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TOP SECRET
CONTROLLED DISSEM

Source:
Farns. 1-4: former Pannonian Charge in Habana, who was approached by the Inter-American Affairs Commission employee, and it is said that the Fan family in Miami have been quite successful in shipping medicines to Cuba including shipments to prisoners in Cuban jails.

Farns, 5 and 6: ASSET obtained the information on or about 20 September because it was addressed to ASSET of Miami, who is related to ASSET who is a very good friend of ASSET.

Also attached under cover of this report are the following items of information of potential interest:

a. Bulletin No. 2 of the National Medical Association in the Frente Interna Anti-Comunista (FIAC). It is not known how ASSET received this information. It is believed that this information dates to about June or July 1962.

Attachments:
Misc. Medical Info.
Headquarters & atta. hw
1 - on/ce
1 - File

CONTROLLED DISSEM

-2-

b. Copy of a letter signed by Cmdte Rene FANE for the Executive Council of the National Institute of Surgeons of the Ministry of Health, dated 6 June addressed to Regino BOTTI, President of JUCEPLAN requesting an approval for the expenditure of $20,000.00 for the purchase of raw color film from Czechoslovakia. This film to be used at the national Universities and in Cuban scientific institutions. Received from ASSET about mid-July from an unidentified correspondent.

c. Debriefing of Antonio TOLEDO Zacia (A12 829 419) who was in the third year at the Medical School, University of Habana. Report dated 21 August.

d. Translation of a commentary by Virgilio FEAJO Nunez, leader of the Cuban medical class Habana on 18 August 1962. It was submitted in translated form by ASSET on 26 August. Though this appears to be an interesting commentary there does not appear to be anything new or startling in the information.

e. Listing of medical and professional personnel in Habana which was received through the diplomatic pouch. Pouch turned over to for duplication. ASSET provided translations. Envelope had return address Colegio Teresiano Calle 17 No. 1054 Vedado, Habana. Addressed to Eduardo ROCO, PO Box 1495. WAVE traces ROCO. Source of this information is not known. It is believed that the names under this attachment should be indexed for the Field. No indication of meaning of A, B, and C, but believe they stand for A - Anti-Communist, B - Neutral and C - Communist.
