14-00000
104-10106-10215
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

STATE OF NEW YORK, COUNTY OF NEW YORK SS:

On the 2nd day of MARCH 1978, before me personally came husband and wife, to me known to be the individuals described in and who executed the foregoing instrument, and acknowledged that they executed the same.

STATE OF NEW YORK, COUNTY OF SS:

On the day of 19, before me personally came to me known to be the individual described in and who executed the foregoing instrument, and acknowledged that executed the same.

STATE OF NEW YORK, COUNTY OF SS:

On the day of 19, before me personally came to me known, who, being by me duly sworn, did depose and say that he resides at No. , that he is the of , the corporation described in and which executed the foregoing instrument; that he knows the seal of said corporation; that the seal affixed to said instrument is such corporate seal; that it was so affixed by order of the board of directors of said corporation, and that he signed h name thereto by like order.

Mortgage Note
TITLE NO.
WITH
(ROUSH-WALKER COMPANY)
STANDARD FORM OF NEW YORK BOARD OF TITLE UNDERWRITERS
Distributed by
CHICAGO TITLE INSURANCE COMPANY

Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

STATE OF NEW YORK, COUNTY OF SS:

On the day of 19, before me personally came the subscribing witness to the foregoing instrument, with whom I am personally acquainted, who, being by me duly sworn, did depose and say that he resides at No. , that he knows to be the individual described in and who executed the foregoing instrument; that he, said subscribing witness, was present and saw execute the same; and that he, said witness, at the same time subscribed h name as witness thereto.

SECTION 5
BLOCK 1406
LOT 26 - Tax Map
COUNTY: NEW YORK

Recorded at Request of
CHICAGO TITLE INSURANCE COMPANY

Return by Mail to:
116 Sullivan Street
New York, NY 10012
Zip No.
