14-00000
104-10172-10279

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES
Ref: ES, 15 June 1965

1. Appearing as part of Section 12 of the PR on Vasilyevich URACOV forwarded with reference, are the following clarification would like to clarify some of the information previously reported by the Station which undoubtedly has led Headquarters to the conclusion contained in the second paragraph immediately below.

When told that Subject (Mikhail Vasilyevich MURACHOV 201-205150) Has been posted to Finland, or (a Soviet defector) commented that Subject (MURACHOV) probably be responsible for penetrating the police. (This speculation by Source is probably not correct since this responsibility belongs to Peter IVANELYEV, who arrived in Helsinki about that time that Subject did, to replace Ivan Yefimovich SENTYAN.)

2. Petr Nikitovich (001-140980), Counsellor of Embassy and head of the Press Section. SAVALYEV filled the Counsellor slot vacated by Vasilyevich SOLO (201-142338) who dealt with trade. I do not recall the Chief of the Press Section prior to SAVELYEV's arrival. However SAVELYEV was NOT the replacement for Ivan LYEV (201-259447) as stated in 5447, 13 February, 1962.

3. We doubt very much that SAVALYEV was involved in police penetration. His contacts in Finland (also in Norway) were for the most part with the press (22-6610, 22 May 1964, etc.) and he circulated freely in that media. SAVALYEV did not speak Finnish, despite the fact that ALINI informed us he spoke fairly good Finnish (5447) which was probably an initial assessment on their part.

4. Although a GRU suspect during his tour in Norway, his activities in Helsinki at first appeared to be those of a KGB co-optee, and later more obviously those of a PR officer in the field. Walter R. CLASTONBURY's contacts with SAVALYEV took place either in press circles or in the presence of Aleksey SHURAROV (201-203095) whom we suspect of being the deputy rezident in Helsinki. Thus the milieu in which SAVALYEV operated, we tend to place him in the KGB category rather than GRU.

DATE TYPED
15 July 65

DATE DISPATCHED
CROSS REFERENCE TO
201-259447

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
220-7331

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER
CR 201-140400

(Galub, Grigoriy) Ye.

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

PAGE NO.
2

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
220-7331

5. SAVALYEV, who left for home leave on 10 July 1967 never returned, was replaced by NGS officer Albert AKULOV (201-232590), first secretary and press attache.

6. Concerning Ivan Yefimovich SERGEYEV (201-259447), SERGEYEV replaced KGB officer Grigoriy Ye. GOLUB (201-150156), Chief of the Consular Section. After the defection of AHLADLEV, this Section was in confusion and the exact slot-for-slot replacements are not known. In our best judgment, SERGEYEV was replaced by Anatoliy PAVLOV (201-331911) who departed 2 March 1963 because of ill health. PAVLOV was temporarily replaced by KGB officer Boris Vasilyevich PERELETOV ostensibly assigned to the Cultural Section (122-6433, 6 March 1964) who departed 31 March 1964 also because of ill health. PERELETOV was replaced for consular responsibilities by KGB officer Feliks Dmitryevich KARASEV (201-756991).

OLIVIA R. CLEMICK

Distribution:
3 - WE
2 - SR
