104-10290-10190
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

PRIORITY: MUNI

ROUTINE

JALNI FAME OSLO BRIK TESE TUNI MANI BET HEID PARI CATE ACCA
FROG ISR ATER JIND LEOD ENGO MEXI GEVA AFBA KAHI PRET SING QUIC
LISE ROWER ABMA ALGI MELB OKIE PRAN LAND VIEN DHAH KAN DENK
HACU NARO PACH FRED TPLA HIAL NIOD NING SJAN ADDI

PIGIAND

WORLD BRIEF
(NOBORN IN SLANTS. REMAINING INFO RELEASABLE TO LIAISON.)
CHRIST

1. BERLIN: THE COMMUNISTS VIEW AS "OFFICIAL" THE TALKS BETWEEN EAST AND WEST BERLIN NEGOTIATORS WHICH ACHIEVED THE AGREEMENT ON PASSES AND CONSIDER THIS A BOOST TO MOSCOW'S "FREE CITY" PROPOSAL FOR WEST BERLIN. WILLY BRANDT, ON THE OTHER HAND, REGARDS THEM AS ONLY "TECHNICAL" AND AS NO SETBACK TO HIS STATURE IN WEST GERMAN POLITICS.

2. YUGOSLAVIA: TITO IS APPARENTLY NO LONGER DEEPLY INVOLVED IN ADMINISTRATION OF YUGOSLAV AFFAIRS. HE HAS EXHIBITED LACK OF REGULARITY AND UNDERSTANDING OF A NUMBER OF FOREIGN POLICY ISSUES AND IS DIVESTING HIMSELF OF RESPONSIBILITIES. TWO RESPONSIBLE OFFICIALS HAVE EXPRESSED CONCERN THAT HIS FACULTIES HAVE DIMMED.

3. NORTH VIETNAM: HEAVY PROPAGANDA EMPHASIS ON THE THIRD ANNIVERSARY OF THE NATIONAL FRONT FOR THE LIBERATION OF SOUTH VIETNAM.

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000
20 Dec 63
SIG CEN
90407

4. GEOVING CONFIRMS IN HANOI THAT INSURGENTS CAN SUSTAIN AND IMPROVE THEIR REGULAR DEFENSE. US BACKING OF THE SOUTH VIETNAMESE AIR. REPORTEDLY A SOVIET 20-1-CLASS PURCHASER HAS ARRIVED & CHRAN HATERS AND TWO TIRES ARE PROBABLY EN ROUTE.

5. USSR: KHRUSHCHEV'S LONG-RANGE PROGRAM FOR DEVELOPMENT OF THE SOVIET CHEMICAL INDUSTRY IS TO BE ACCOMPANIED BY CURTAILMENT IN OTHER PARTS OF THE ECONOMY DURING THE NEXT TWO YEARS. CONSUMER SERVICES, AND SOME HEAVY INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION ARE AFFECTED, AND IT SEEMS LIKELY THAT THERE WILL BE A SLOWING IN THE RATE AT WHICH MILITARY EXPENDITURES HAVE INCREASED.

6. ITALY: AT THE BOARD GOVERNMENT'S LIABILITY AS A RESULT OF STRONG CONFIDENCE VOTE.

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000
(PAGE THREE)

96900
SUPPORT OF THE CONFIDENCE VOTE. MORO'S POSITION IS FIRMER BECAUSE OF THIS AND BECAUSE OF THE VATICAN'S PRESSURE ON CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC RIGHTWINGERS NOT TO BREAK PARTY UNITY. (CONF)

7. CUBA: THE CASTRO REGIME IS INTENT ON CULTIVATING AFRICAN COUNTRIES AS A WAY OF LESSENING ITS ISOLATION FROM THE FREE WORLD. EMBASSY IN TANGANYIKA INDICATES THIS. IN ADDITION, CUBA HAS DURING THE PAST MONTHS, EXPANDED CONTACTS WITH NINE COUNTRIES SOUTH OF THE SAHARA. THERE IS ALSO REASON TO SUSPECT AFRICANS GOING TO CUBA FOR SCHOLARSHIPS ARE GETTING TRAINING IN GUERRILLA WARFARE TECHNIQUES.

8. BRITISH FOREIGN POLICY IS INCREASINGLY FOCUSED ON EAST-WEST DIALOGUE AND IMPROVED RELATIONS WITH WEST GERMANY. PRIME MINISTER HOME AND SIR ALEX AND FOREIGN SECRETARY BUTLER ESPECIALLY ARE EXPLORING AREAS OF POSSIBLE AGREEMENT WITH MOSCOW A POLICY WHICH PAID OFF HANDSOMELY FOR THE CONSERVATIVES IN ELECTIONS OF 1955 AND 1959. MAIN OBJECTIVE - BUTLER'S RECENT VISIT, BONN WAS TO SOUND OUT GERMAN REACTION TO SUCH BRITISH INITIATIVES.

9. BRITISH GUIANA: JAGAN AND HIS LIEUTENANTS HAVE BEEN ATTACKING COORDINATING AN.

RELEASING OFFICER

AUTO REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN TAP AUTHORIZED.

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000

90407
(PAGE FOUR)

DATE: AGAINST JAGAN. FEARS ARE OF TRYING TO BLACKMAIL HAVE TENTATIVE PLANS TO ATTACK RACH WATER PUBLICLY.

10. FRANCE: PARIS IS WILLING TO PROMOTE TRADE WITH COMMUNIST CHINA BY ENCOURAGING PRIVATE FIRMS TO DEVELOP NEW MARKETS. THERE ARE BUILT IN LIMITATIONS TO THE RATE THAT FRENCH-CHINESE TRADE CAN GROW. COMPLEMENTARY PRODUCTS ARE FEW, AND CREDIT PROBLEMS CONTINUE TO LIMIT PURCHASES BY CHINESE WHO SEEM PRIMARILY INTERESTED IN OBTAINING FRENCH TECHNICAL SKILLS. PARIS INTEREST IN CHINESE TRADE AND EXPANDED CULTURAL CONTACTS WITH PEIPING HAVE STIMULATED SPECULATION THAT SOME SORT OF DIPLOMATIC RECOGNITION IS IN THE OFFING. THIS IS STOUTLY DENIED AT ALL LEVELS OF FRENCH GOVERNMENT.

11. FINLAND: FOR SECOND TIME IN FOUR MONTHS FINLAND IS GOING THROUGH A CABINET CRISIS BROUGHT ON BY DISAGREEMENT WITHIN THE RULING COALITION OVER DOMESTIC LEGISLATION. A NON-POLITICAL GOVERNMENT

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000

(PAGE FIVE)

90400
OF CIVIL SERVANTS, HEADED BY ECONOMIST REINO LEHTO, HAS BEEN APPOINTED TO SERVE UNTIL THE PRESENT CONTROVERSY IS RESOLVED. ALTERNATIVE SOLUTIONS SEEM LIMITED TO AGRARIAN MINORITY GOVERNMENT, RECONSTITUTION OF AGRARIAN-DOMINATED COALITION OR AS A LAST RESORT, GENERAL ELECTIONS. WHATEVER THE OUTCOME, PRESIDENT KEKKONEN DESIRES TO CONTINUE TO IMPROVE RELATIONS WITH THE USSR. MOSCOW CAME OUT AGAIN DURING HIS TRIP TO THE USSR.

12. KOREA: PRESIDENT PAK CHONG-HUI'S NOMINATION OF THE CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT INAUGURATED ON 17 DEC MEANS A NEW POLITICAL ERA. ALSO INCREASING HIS PERSONAL FORE. NEW SECURITY CHIEF KIM CHONG-PIL CONTROLS THE PARTY APPARATUS, AND HIS MANY ENEMIES ARE LIKELY TO TRY TO USE THE LEGISLATIVE PROCESSES TO TRY TO WREST POWER FROM HIM. PRESIDENT PAK STILL BACKS KIM, HOWEVER, AND THEY AND THEIR COHORTS WILL CONTINUE TO MAKE THE GOVERNMENT'S MAJOR DECISIONS. THE CABINET HEADED BY CHOE TU-SON APPEARS TO HAVE BEEN CHOSEN WITH A MIND TO BALANCING FACTIONAL AND SECTIONAL INTERESTS AND FOR AN ABILITY TO CARRY OUT, RATHER THAN FORMULATE POLICY. WITH ELECTIONS OVER, THE REGIME IS STAGNANT.

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000

(PAGE SIX)

90407
SPEED DECISIONS ROUTINE

PAK IS ALSO ANXIOUS TO ENTER INTO NEGOTIATIONS FOR A NORMALIZATION OF RELATIONS WITH JAPAN. (CONF)

13. DAHOMEY: OLD CARDS CLIMAX FOLLOWING THE FAILURE TO DRAW BOTH MAJOR AND MINOR PARTIES INTO COALITION ARRANGEMENTS. ONLY A COALITION OF ALL POLITICAL GROUPS REMAINS TO BE TRIED. DESPITE THE DEEP DIFFERENCES, AN ASSOCIATION BETWEEN THE TWO MAY PROVE FEASIBLE, FOR THE POLITICIANS FEAR THAT EXTENDING THE CRISIS MUCH LONGER MIGHT PROVOKE MILITARY INTERVENTION. (CONF)

14. CONGO: THE ADOULA REGIME'S POSITION REMAINS PRECARIOUS. ITS EXTREME LEFTIST OPPONENTS JOINED IN A "COMMITTEE OF NATIONAL LIBERATION" CONTINUE TO PLOT AGAINST IT FROM THEIR BRAZZAVILLE BASE. (CAL)

FRENCH SCHEMING CRIPPLED BY LEOPOLDVILLE'S EXPLOSION OF THEIR SOVIET.

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000
(PAGE SEVEN)
EMBASSY CONTACTS AND ARMS. LEOPOLDVILLE LEADERS HAVE SENT EMISSARIES ABROAD TO SEIZE PLANS REPORTEDLY INCLUDE ASSASSINATION OF THE GOT AND INSTIGATION OF A COUP BY THE CONGO ARMY. THE WEAKNESS OF THE LEOPOLDVILLE REGIME, ESPECIALLY THE QUESTIONABLE RELIABILITY OF GENERAL MOBUTU'S ARMY, CLEARLY ENHANCES THE CHL PROSPECTS. LAST MONTH MOBUTU AND SURETE CHIEF NENDAKA THE REGIME'S TWO KEYSTONES WERE WAYLAID BY SOLDIERS. STUDENT AGITATION MAY BECOME A FACTOR IN VIEW OF ITS CLOSE CONNECTIONS TO STUDENT GROUPS OF TWO HIGH OFFICIALS RECEIVING FOREIGN MINISTER MABIKA-KALANDA AND LONDON CHARGE D'AFFAIRES KANZA IN NEW YORK. PROVINCIAL VOTERS SUPPORTED TIENG KHOUT (COMMUNIST SUPPORTERS) TOWARD WRITING CONSTITUTION. LOOSE ARRANGEMENT APPEARS THAN GOVERNMENT. NEUTRALIST MILITARY CENTRAL AND NORTHERN LAOS ARE CONSIDERING AIDING BOVES KIMER AT ETHAN, COMMUNIST.

--- Page 8 ---

14-00000

(PAGE EIGHT)

90407
HAVE ROAD JUNCTION OF LAK SAC, HOWEVER, THE CAPABILITY TO MAKE HARD MILITARY NEGOTIATIONS. THE CONTINUING INTERNECINE STRIFE BETWEEN PATENT LAO AND NEUTRALIST FACTIONS HAVE FURTHER ERODED EST THE PATENT LAO HAVE EXPRESSED NEW INTEREST IN ARRANGING A MEETING BETWEEN PRINCE SOUPHANOUVONG AND PREMIER SOUVANNA TO ARRANGE FOR FULL PATHET LAO PARTICIPATION IN THE COALITION GOVERNMENT. COUP RUMORS, PLANE BY RIGHT-WING MILITARY ELEMENT ALLIED WITH THE SAMANIKONE CLAN, CONTINUE TO CIRCULATE IN VIENTIANE.
