```markdown
14-00000

104-10176-10070
[2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: MASFERRER Y ROJAS, ROLANDO
201-42669
VOL. I
INCLUSIVE DATES: 1 JAN 69 THRU APRIL 76
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:
ROOM:
DELETIONS, IF ANY: THIRD AGENCY DOCUMENTS

DATE RECEIVED: 4 AUG 1978
DATE RETURNED: 5 AUG 1978
REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME): PAT ORR
SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL: PAT ORR

DATE RECEIVED: 7 AUG 1978
DATE RETURNED: 7 AUG 1978
REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME): ORR
SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL: ORR

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000
SECRET

DO DOCUMENT EXTRACT

THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CONCERNING THE SUBJECT OF THIS 201
DOSSIER HAS BEEN EXTRACTED FROM ANOTHER OFFICIAL DO FILE.

PERSONS PERFORMING NAME TRACES ARE CAUTIONED THAT THE DOCUMENT
FROM WHICH THIS EXTRACT WAS PREPARED CONTAINS ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE SUBJECT AND SHOULD BE REQUESTED
FROM IP/FILES.

MASFERRER, ROLANDO ROJAS
201-0042669
SEX M
201-011-009/43
CONC-30066177
20 SEP 77
FBI
FORMER CUBAN SENATOR AND NEWSPAPER PUBLISHER
MAY 74 WAS ALLEGEDLY OPERATING TRAINING CAMP
IN FLORIDA EVERGLADES

DATE 10 FEB 78
09579153
201-42669
SECRET
E2 IPPDET CL BY 054979

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

ARIZANTE SOM ISSUED SLOTTED LA
LAZ
ACT.Cl
R= FILE
VR
T 659445
EIA769
NCTION
CT-FA TILAT
ENG OFFICE IS PERMITTED
STAFF PRECEDENCE
PAGE 21
IN 577535
TOR:2226512 APR 74
CARA 29541
SECRET 2216142 APR 76 STAFF
CARACAS 29841

IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR INFO IMMEDIATE PANAMA CITY (FOR LADS),
IMMEDIATE LA/MIAMI.

MEALSH KMSTON= SGCHART MMABYSS
REF: DIRECTOR 614526
CROSS FILE COPY FOR
201-42669
DO NOT DESTROY

1. FYI, CARACAS DAILY NEWSPAPER ULTIMAS NOTICIAS, 22 APR
76 CARRIES PRENSA LATINA STORY DATELINED HABANA 25 APR TITLES:
CIA ACCUSED OF MURDERING ANTI-CASTRO LEADERS. STORY CENTERS AROUND
ALLEGED PRESS CONFERENCE IN WHICH MANUEL DE ARMAS, CLAIMING
TO BE A FORMER CIA AGENT, "TELLS ALL" ABOUT "OPERATION ABDALA."
DE ARMAS CLAIMS THAT WHILE STATIONED IN NEW YORK IN 1971 HE
MAINTAINED CONTACT WITH TWO CIA OFFICIALS (FAU) BLACKENHOUSE WHO
HAD RECRUITED HIM TWO YEARS PREVIOUSLY, AND RICHARD TOMLEY OF
MCLEAN, VIRGINIA WHO HAD TAINED HIM AND WHO EVALUATED HIS PER-
FORMANCE INITIALLY IN OPERATION ABDALA. DE ARMAS ALSO CLAIMS THAT
TERRORIST ATTACKS AGAINST VENEZUELAN TOURIST OFFICIALS IN PUERTO
RICO WERE COORDINATED WITH THE CIA AND CARRIED OUT BY A PERSON
NAMED JUAN DE DIOS IN REPRISAL FOR THE DETENTION OF ORLANDO
BOSCH IN CARACAS.

FURTHER, DE ARMAS CLAIMS TO HAVE HAD KNOWLEDGE
8201-299292 8201-335909

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000

FILE
SECRET

T 697535
EIA759
PAGE 22
TOR:2215512 APR 76
CARA 29641
OF PREPARATIONS FOR ATTACKS AGAINST EXILES AND THAT THIS PLANNING
HAD BEGUN THREE MONTHS PRIOR TO THE ASSASSINATION OF JOSE DE LA
TORRIENTE. DE ARMAS SAYS 303 DYNES, A CIA OFFICER,
PARTICIPATED IN ABDALA FOR THE SUPPLY OF EXPLOSIVES IN CIA MISSIONS
RELATED TO CHILE. DE ARMAS SAID HE SERVED IN THE ABDALA OPERATION
ALSO AS AN INTERMEDIARY BETWEEN ALBERT BUD MILES AND LAZARO ALVAREZ
FOR THE DELIVERY OF PACKS OF C-4 EXPLOSIVE WHICH WERE USED IN
201-476675
THE KILLING OF ROLANDO MASFERRER. DE ARMAS IDENTIFIES MILLS AS A
LIAISON OFFICER BETWEEN THE DEPARTMENTS OF JUSTICE AND DEFENSE.

DE ARMAS REFERRED TO ATTACKS AGAINST CUBAN FISHERMEN AND SAID

ROBERTO TUR, A CIA INFORMANT LIVING ON 12TH AVENUE BETWEEN
8TH AND 9TH (SIC) IN SOUTHWEST MIAMI, HAS THE MISSION OF LOCATING THE
BOATS.

2. DE ARMAS CLAIMS THE CIA IS ENGAGED IN A PLAN TO BRING
ABOUT RUPTURE OF RELATIONS BETWEEN VENEZUELA AND CUBA, AND THAT
FRED DUNCAN DOUGH PHILLIPS, UNDER DIPLOMATIC COVER, ARE
PARTICIPATING IN THE PLAN.

DUNCAN AND PHILLIPS ARE ALLEGED TO
BE USING AN APARTMENT IN THE "HY FLOWER" BUILDING IN CARACAS IN
CONJUNCTION WITH THIS PLAN.

3. AT THE CONCLUSION OF HIS CONFERENCE, DE ARMAS IS REPORTED
SECRET

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000

ACTION UNIT
FILE
VR
F
T 659665
EIA769
TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
STAFF
PAGE 23
TOR:221651Z APR 76
CARA 29641
TO HAVE READ A LIST OF CIA OFFICERS WHICH INCLUDED JOHN VILDAVIAN,
A CIA OPERATOR IN THE AREA OF LA FLURICA (SECTION OF CARACAS. OF
STATE OF FLORIDA NOT CLEAR) AND RICHARD TOYELY, AN OPERATOR
OFFICER IN MCLEAN VIRGINIA SPECIALIZING IN CUBAN OPERATIONS.
DYNES IS IDENTIFIED AS BEING IN CHILE, FRED DUNCAN AS AN OPERATOR
IN THE CARACAS STATION. DOUGH PHILLIPS AS A LIAISON OFFICER
THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE, A. NASS, AN OFFICER OF THE SANTO DOMINGO
STATION, AND LUIS CESA SOTO, A CIA OPERATOR IN THE MIAMI AREA.
VOL-0841914
ANSELMO ALLIEGRO IS IDENTIFIED AS A CIA AGENT-INFORMANT IN MIAMI,

JUSTO ALFONSO ALIAS EL GALLEGO, ANOTHER AGENT-INFORMANT IN MIAMI,

RICARDO MORALES NAVARRETE, A CIA OPERATOR IN CARACAS, ARMANDO
RUIZ, AN AGENT IN CARACAS AND ANTONIO(DE) LEON, AN AGENT IN MEXICO.

4. AS HEADQUARTERS AWARE FRED DUNCAN AND LEE PHILLIPS ARE
THE TWO CARACAS DEA DISTRICT OFFICERS. CIA USED SAFEHOUSE IS
MAY FLOWER BUILDING TO MEET DE ARMAS. NESS IS (OR WAS) STATE
SECURITY IN SANTO DOMINGO.

5. AMBASSADOR HAS DIRECTED NO COMMENT EMBASSY RESPONSE TO
ANY INQUIRIES.

6. FILE: 222-12-152, E2 IMPDET.
SECRET

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

SECRET
STAFF
CONF:
INFO: FILE
DATE-TIME
TO:
L.
MEXICO CITY INFO MIAMI.
KMSTONE
REFS: A. DIRECTOR 779655
B. MEXICO CITY 34771 [IN 7630748]
C. MEXICO CITY 34701 [IN 7556348]

1. SUGGEST HENRY S. PACHANKIS (NOC) DISCREETLY CHECK AMONG
CUBAN COMMUNITY REGARDING POSSIBLE RELATIONSHIP OF MASFERRER TO
ALBERTO DEL RIO AGUILERA.

2. PRIORITY CHECK REQUESTED PARA 5 REF A HAS BEEN FORWARDED TO
FBI.

3. FILE: 201-09059861 201-42649. E2 IMPDET.A
LA COMMENT: NOTED POSSIBLE DISCREPANCIES IN STORY GIVEN BY CUBAN
CHAUFFER, DEL RIO, CONCERNING BOMBING OF CUBAN
AMBASSADOR'S AUTO. ALSO REQUESTED LHERGO INFO WHICH MIGHT
INDICATE CHAUFFER RELATED TO ROLANDO MASFERRER, WHO WAS
RECENTLY KILLED BY AN AUTO BOMB IN MIAMI.

REPORTED BOMBING OF CUBAN AMBASSADOR'S AUTO AND
POSSIBILITY HE RELATED TO ROLANDO MASFERRER.

DATE: 4 DEC 75
ORIG: BILL WAGNEROLF
UNIT: LA/H
EXT: 9041
COORD: C/LA/CARE
C/LA/COG
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
CROSS FILE COPY FOR
201-042669
DO NOT DESTROY
E2 IMPDET
CL BY: 058658

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR
STAFF
TO: DIRECTOR
CONF:
INFO: FILE
DATE-TIME
TO: MEXICO CITY INFO LA/MIAMI.
KMSTONE
REFS: A. DIRECTOR 779655
B. MEXICO CITY 34771 [IN 7630748]

1. RE REF B REQUEST. FBI TRACES NEGATIVE ON JUAN ALBERTO
DEL RIO AGUILERA (203-0905986).
LIKEWISE, MASFERRER FBI
MIAMI FILE BEARS NO RECORD OF RELATIVES WITH PATRONYM OR MATRONYM
DEL RIO.

FILE: 201-09059861 201-0042669. E2 IMPDET. A
LA COMMENTS & ASKS MIAMI HOC TO CHECK AMONG CUBAN COMMUNITY RE
POSSIBLE RELATIONSHIP OF ROLANDO A. MASFERRER Y ROJAS,
CUBAN EXILE KILLED MIAMI, TO ALBERTO DEL RIO AGUILERA,
CUBAN EMBASSY CHAUFFEUR MC.

STATION REQUEST TO CHECK WITH FBI RE ABOVE INFO FROM
TELTAP.

DATE: 16 DECEMBER 1975
ORIG: PJ MCNAMARA/
UNIT: C/LA/COG
EXT: 1973
C/LA/CA
LA/SMS
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
SECRET
E 2 IMPDET
CL BY: 058658

--- Page 8 ---

14-00000

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT
FILE
VR
F
T 7533815
EIA274
TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
STAFF
PAGE 21-21
TOR:2728212 JAN 76
CITE LA/MIAMI 24149
TO: DIRECTOR INFO MEXICO CITY.

REF: DIRECTOR 779655
HENRY S. PACHANKIS (NOC) DISCREETLY CHECKED AMONG CUBAN
COMMUNITY RE POSSIBLE RELATIONSHIP OF MASFERRER TO ALBERTO
DEL RIO AGUILERA WITH NEGATIVE RESULTS. POUCHING CONTACT
REPORT.

2. FILES 201-8935986; 221-8842669, E2, IMPDET.
CROSS FILE COPY FOR
201-042669
DO NOT DESTROY

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR
STAFF
TO: LA/MIAMI.
REAM
REF: LA/MIAMI 23900 [IN 732439]

1. FBI HAS LIAISON REP ADVISED AGENCY OF MAYOR FERRE REQUEST
SHORTLY AFTER RECEIPT OF REF. MATTER HAS BEEN DISCUSSED WITH
APPROPRIATE AGENCY COMPONENTS AND DETERMINATION MADE THAT THE
AGENCY IS PROHIBITED BY LAW FROM PROVIDING SUCH INFORMATION TO
THE MAYOR. IN VIEW INFORMALITY OF REQUEST. THE FBI HAS REP HAS
BEEN REQUESTED TO HAVE HIS MIAMI OFFICE TET WORD TO THE MAYOR
THAT THE AGENCY IS PREVENTED BY LAW FROM COMPLYING WITH REQUEST.
HOWEVER: THE AGENCY WILL BE GLAD TO RUN INDEPENDENT AGENCY NAME
CHECK IF MAYOR PROVIDES NAME OF FIRE SUSPECT(S). THE MAYOR WILL BE
TOLD TO USE THE FBI AS CHANNEL FOR PASSING SUCH NAME CHECK REQUEST
TO THE AGENCY.

2. FILE: 201-42669; 39-2-18. E2 IMPDET.A
LA/COG/COMMENT: ON 4 NOVEMBER 1975 MIAMI, FLORIDA MAYOR MAURICE
FERRE ASKED MIAMI FBI FOR LIST OF ALL CUBANS TRAINED IN DEMOLITION
BY CIA. REQUEST BELIEVED BE RESULT OF RECENT BOMBING DEATH OF
CUBAN EXILE LEADER MASFERRER ON 31 Oct 75.

NOVEMBER 1975 OGC
JOHN GREANEY (TELECOORD)
CHRIS HOPKINS/CR
LA/COG/CIOS OPS/LIA - STEVE KUHN (TELECOORD)
2208/3491
C/LA/COG
COORDINATING OFFICERS
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
SECRET 19-2-18
RECORD COPY
E 2 IMPDET
CL BY: 025233

--- Page 10 ---

14-00000

TABLE SEC HISSEMAY
PERSON. UNIT NOTIFIED
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT
FILE
VR
F
T 435231
EIA274
PAGE 01-01
TOR:242127Z NOV 75
LMIM 2398 0
SECRET 2422532 NOV 75 STAFF
CITE LA/MIAMI 23988
TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR,

1. FBI/MIAMI NOTIFIED STATION ON 4 NOVEMBER THAT ON
THAT DATE MIAMI MAYOR MAURICE FERRE HAD ASKED FOR LIST
OF ALL CUBANS TRAINED IN DEMOLITION BY BKHERALD. REQUEST
APPARENTLY RESULTED FROM RECENT BOMBING DEATH OF CUBAN
EXILE LEADER ROLANDO MASFERRER. MAYOR FERRE
APPARENTLY BELIEVES LIST OF BKHERALD TRAINEES WILL HELP
ASSIST APPREHENSION OF KILLERS OF MASFERRER AND
PERPETRATORS OF OTHER RECENT BOMBINGS.

2. HOS WILL PRESUMABLY BE QUERIED SINCE ABOVE REQUEST
WILL BE FORWARDED TO FBI MOS.

3. FILE CLFER.
EZ, IMPDET.

SECRET
RECORD COPY
4 Nov. 75.
201-42669

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
IN 732419

--- Page 11 ---

14-00000
FBI doc.
6 May 75 (Miami)
Re- Rolando Arcadio Masferrer
Rojas
Bureau # 100-344127

--- Page 12 ---

14-00000

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT
FILE, VR, DDO, PS/EG2, IP/AN, IW, CPS/INT 2, CI/OP 2,
SS 4, OSG/IC.
PAGE 01
IN 53114
TOR: 241716Z MAR 75 PACY 31894
SECRET 2416442 MAR 75 INTEL
CITE PANAMA CITY 32884 (SANCHEZ ACTING)
TO: DIRECTOR,
INTEL ERWAHOO
SUPDATA:
ERWAHOD FOR HOS REVIEW. PLS REVIEW SOURCE COMMENT.
HZP-13.384
FLOYD H. MCNERNEY (NOC) FROM SUBJECT OF 201-8927762.
INDEX: ORGALLEZ. NOT FOR PASSAGE TO LIAISON.
OD OBJECTIVE: C.I. FILE: 19-5-41. CL BY 235183.
FILED: 2416442

--- Page 13 ---

14-00000

SECRET
CIA INTERN USE ONLY
WARNING NOTICE
DATE 24 MARCH 1975
IN 531141
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED
PAGE 1 OF 2 PAGES
The following Report, transmitted from a CIA Field Station, requires review within the Directorate of Operations before being
released outside the Agency. Pending results of this review, a copy is being provided for your advance information.
THIS INFORMATION IS NOT TO BE INCLUDED IN ANY OTHER DOCUMENT OR PUBLICATION
DISTRIBUTION TO: SDO
COUNTRY: PANAMA/CUBA
DOI: MID-MARCH 1975
SUBJECT: JOINT CUBAN/PANAMANIAN SURVEILLANCE OF CUBAN EXILE
VISITING PANAMA CITY
ACQ: PANAMA, PANAMA CITY (22 MARCH 1975)
FIELD NO. H&P-13,386
SOURCE:
1. AN EMPLOYEE OF THE PANAMANIAN GOVERNMENT WHO HAS
CONTACTS IN THE PANAMANIAN SECURITY SERVICE. HE IS
BELIEVED TO BE A RELIABLE REPORTER. HE OBTAINED THIS
INFORMATION FROM AN EMPLOYEE OF A SECURITY SERVICE.
2. IN MID-MARCH 1975, LIEUTENANT COLONEL MANUEL
ORTEGA, THE G-2 OF THE NATIONAL GUARD (GN), ASSIGNED
LIEUTENANT CLETO HERNANDEZ, A MEMBER OF THE G-2, TO
WORK WITH MANUEL ORGALLEZ, WHO IS LISTED AS THE
CHAUFFEUR OF THE CUBAN AMBASSADOR IN PANAMA, TO CONDUCT A
SURVEILLANCE OF ROLANDO MASFERRER, A CUBAN EXILE.
SECRET

--- Page 14 ---

14-00000

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED
SECRET
PAGE 2 OF 2 PAGES

VISITING PANAMA CITY. MASFERRER IS A RESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES. IN PANAMA CITY HE STAYED IN ROOM 485 OF THE CONTINENTAL
HOTEL. HERNANDEZ AND ORGALLEZ, WORKING AS A TEAM, LOCATED
MASFERRER AT HIS HOTEL SHORTLY AFTER HIS ARRIVAL AND KEPT HIM
UNDER CONSTANT SURVEILLANCE UNTIL HE DEPARTED PANAMA ON
21 MARCH. ACCORDING TO ORGALLEZ, MASFERRER WAS A WELL KNOWN
CUBAN SAN AND AN EXILE TROUBLE MAKER. (SOURCE COMMENT:
ORGALLEZ' DESCRIPTION OF MASFERRER IS NOT TRUE. HE IS THE
SON OF A PROMINENT MEMBER OF THE CUBAN EXILE COMMUNITY IN MIAMI.)
(FIELD COMMENT: HZP-13,367, TDFIRDB-315/81842-75, FROM THE
SAME SOURCE, REPORTED THAT IN JANUARY 1975 THE GN G-2 DETAINED A
CUBAN EXILE IN COOPERATION WITH THE CUBAN EMBASSY.)

2. FIELD DISSEM: EMBASSY (AMBASSADOR ONLY), CINCSO
(GENERAL ROSSEN ONLY) AT PANAMA CITY.
REPORT CLASS SECRET/WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE
SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED/NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED
DISSEM ABROAD/THIS INFORMATION IS NOT TO BE
INCLUDED IN ANY OTHER DOCUMENT OR PUBLICATION
CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. EXEMPT FROM
DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE OF E.O. 11652 EXEMPTION CATEGORY B (2).
IMPOSSIBLE TO DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICATION.
SECRET

--- Page 15 ---

14-00000

SECRET
DO DOCUMENT EXTRACT

THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CONCERNING THE SUBJECT OF THIS 201
DOSSIER HAS BEEN EXTRACTED FROM ANOTHER OFFICIAL DO FILE.

PERSONS PERFORMING NAME TRACES ARE CAUTIONED THAT THE DOCU-
MENT FROM WHICH THIS EXTRACT WAS PREPARED CONTAINS ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE SUBJECT AND SHOULD BE REQUESTED
FROM IP/FILES.

MASFERRER, ROLANDO
201-0042669
SEX M
201-0209258
080-81252
25 SEP 74
FBI
P2
USA, FLA, MIAMI. VSX LESNICK /201-0209258/
CLAIMS SUBJ IS BEING A CRIMINAL CONSPIRACY
AGAINST HIM.

DATE 28 JAN 75
09234230
201-42669
SECRET
E2 IMPDET CL BY 054979

--- Page 16 ---

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR
STAFF
TO: DIRECTOR
CONF: LA/H
INFO: FILE
DATE-TIME
TO: ASUNCION INFO LA/MIAMI, CARACAS, PANAMA CITY.
REAM MHABYSS
REFS: A. ASUNCION 16391 [IN 384848]
B. LA/MIAMI 22536 [IN 386045]

1. SUBJ REFS POSSIBLY IDENTIFIABLE WITH ROLANDO ARCADIO
MASFERRER Y ROJAS (201-0042669) CUBAN EXILE RESIDING 2000
FLAGLER ST., MIAMI, FLA." MASFERRER, FORMER CUBAN SENATOR AND NEWS-
PAPER PUBLISHER, WAS INDICTED AND CONVICTED 28 FEB 1968 AFTER ABOR-
TIVE ATTEMPTED INVASION HAITI 1967. SUBJECT UNSUCCESSFULLY APPEALED
CASE FEDERAL COURT, AND BEGAN SERVING FOUR YEAR SENTENCE SEPT 1970.
"AS OF MAY 1974 HE ALLEGEDLY OPERATING TRAINING CAMP IN FLORIDA
EVERGLADES WITH INTENT PLANNING RAIDS AGAINST CUBAN SHIPPING AND
POSSIBLY CUBAN MAINLAND.

2. HQS UNABLE VERIFY MASFERRER'S ASSOCIATION WITH RAINBOW SALES
CORPORATION:. FIRM ADDRESS, ACCORDING TO MIAMI PHONE LISTING: 234
NW 72 AVE., MIAMI (592-5805).

3. ABOVE INFO MAY BE RELINQUISHED ORALLY TO DEA.
NO ADDITIONAL HQS TRACES ROLANDO MASFERRER
TD-200-11-11/3
SECRET

--- Page 17 ---

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR
STAFF
CONF:
INFO: FILE
DATE-TIME
TO:
FROM: DIRECTOR
UNIT:
EXT:
FILE: 203-0042669; 200-33-31/3. E2 IMPDET.A
LA/COMMENT - REF REQUESTED TRACES ROLANDO MASFERRER PRES. RAINBOW
SALES CORP., RECENTLY ARRIVED IN ASUNCION TO ESTABLISH
CONTRABAND TRADE FROM PANAMA TO PARAGUAY.

17 OCTOBER 1974
HOWARD ORR {DRAFT}
BIO/OPS/NAR
BELA/COG - TOM CLINES {DRAFT}
KAREN JONES/SEL
LA/SB/UP/IA
C/LA/CAM
C/LA/SB
AUTHENTICATING OFFICES
E 2 IMPDET
CL BY: 51-1437

--- Page 18 ---

14-00000
Coast Guard cables
1 Jul 74
3 5 July 74
2 23 May 74
4 21 May 74
5 20 May 74
State Dept Cable
16 May 74 (# 102137)
Coast Guard cables
10 May 74

--- Page 19 ---

14-00000

SECRET
DO DOCUMENT EXTRACT

THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CONCERNING THE SUBJECT OF THIS 201
DOSSIER HAS BEEN EXTRACTED FROM ANOTHER OFFICIAL DO FILE.

PERSONS PERFORMING NAME TRACES ARE CAUTIONED THAT THE DOCU-
MENT FROM WHICH THIS EXTRACT WAS PREPARED CONTAINS ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE SUBJECT AND SHOULD BE REQUESTED
FROM IP/FILES.

MASFERRER ROJAS, ROLANDO
201-0042669
SEX M
100-009-014
DBD-78 295
31 JUL 74
FBI
FORMER CUBAN SENATOR HAS BEEN INVOLVED IN
NUMEROUS ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES IN PAST INCL
INVASION ATTEMPTS

DATE 20 AUG 74
09158053
201-042669
SECRET
E2 IMP.DET CL BY 054979

--- Page 20 ---

14-00000

SECRET
(When Filled In)
DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.
4. DATE
7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM. DATE OF INFO.
9. EVALUATION
16. DATE PROCESSED
10. DISSEMINATED IN
11. DATE
DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

13. TRANSFERRED TO
RI FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

MASFERRER ROJAS, ROLANDO
201-042669
SEX M DOB ?
CIT CUBA
OCC ?
201-335909
DBD -98648
09 NOV 70
FBI
COOPERATING WITH TORRIENTE PRIOR TO SEP 70
TO OVERTHROW CURRENT CUBAN GOV PRESENTLY IN
FEDERAL PENITENTIARY IN ATLANTA, GEORGIA

R 7012090138

FILE IN 201-
042669

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

SECRET

--- Page 21 ---

14-00000

SECRET
DO DOCUMENT EXTRACT

THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CONCERNING THE SUBJECT OF THIS 201
DOSSIER HAS BEEN EXTRACTED FROM ANOTHER OFFICIAL DO FILE.

PERSONS PERFORMING NAME TRACES ARE CAUTIONED THAT THE DOCU-
MENT FROM WHICH THIS EXTRACT WAS PREPARED CONTAINS ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE SUBJECT AND SHOULD BE REQUESTED
FROM IP/FILES.

MASFERRER, ROLANDO
201-0042669
SEX M
019-012-200
DBD-74101
14 MAY 74
FBI
REPORTEDLY TRAINING PERSONNEL WHO PLANNING
ATTACK AGAINST CUBANS TRAINING IN FLA EVERGLADE
ATTACK PLANNED TO OCCUR IN JUN 74

DATE 24 MAY 74
09114145
PRIORITY
SECRET
201-042669
E2 IMPDET CL BY 054979

--- Page 22 ---

14-00000

SECRET
DO DOCUMENT EXTRACT

THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CONCERNING THE SUBJECT OF THIS 201
DOSSIER HAS BEEN EXTRACTED FROM ANOTHER OFFICIAL DO FILE.

PERSONS PERFORMING NAME TRACES ARE CAUTIONED THAT THE DOCU-
MENT FROM WHICH THIS EXTRACT WAS PREPARED CONTAINS ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE SUBJECT AND SHOULD BE REQUESTED
FROM IP/FILES.

MASFERRER ROJAS, ROLANDO
201-0042665
SEX M
201-0299292
DBD-67951
16 JAN 74
FBI
24
WARNED BY ORLANDO BOSCH /201-C299292/ TO STOP
RADIO EDITORIALS AGAINST HUBERT MATOS. SUBJ NOT
INTIMIDATED.

DATE 31 JAN 74
09059788
PRIORITY
SECRET
201-042669
E2 IMPDET CL BY 054974

--- Page 23 ---

14-00000

SECRET
(When Filled in)
EXTRACT AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

DOC. SYMBOL & NO.
DATE OF DOC.
FILE CLASSIFICATION OF RECORD COPY

DOC. SUBJECT
SOURCE CRYPTONYM
SOURCE INFORMATION
DATE OF INFO.

TEXT OF EXTRACT (Also cite doc. distribution, Dissen. No., etc. - if applicable)

MASFERRER-ROJAS, ROLANDO-
201-042669
SEX M DOB ?
CIT ?
OCC ?
EVALUATION
100-009-016
DBD -53739
02 APR 73
FBI
FGI
FIRST MET AND DISCUSSED POLITICAL SITUATION IN
HAITI WITH JACK SIMMONS HORGER BEFORE 67

Indicate The Subject, Project Or
201 File No. In Which This
Form Is To Be Filed.

SUBJECT OF 201 (Lest, First, Middle)

R 7304280885
201-
042669

SECRET

--- Page 24 ---

14-00000

DOC. SUBJECT
SOURCE CRYPTONYM
SECRET
EXTRACT AND CROSS REFERENCE
DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

DATE OF DOC.
FILE CLASSIFICATION OF RECORD COPY
SOURCE INFORMATION
DATE OF INFO.
TEXT OF EXTRACT (Also cite doc. distribution, Dissen. No., etc. - if applicable)
EVALUATION
MASFERRER, ROLANDO
201-042669
SEX M DOB ?
CIT ?
OCC ?
201-292423
DBD -52594
16 MAR 73
FBI
P4
Indicate The Subject, Project Or
201 File No. In Which This
Form Is To Be Filed.
SUBJECT OF 201 (Lest, First, Middle)

R 7304100736
201-
042669
SECRET

--- Page 25 ---

14-00000

DOC. SUBJECT
SOURCE CRYPTONYM
SECRET
(When Filled In)
EXTRACT AND CROSS REFERENCE
DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

DATE OF DOC.
FILE CLASSIFICATION OF RECORD COPY
SOURCE INFORMATION
DATE OF INFO.
TEXT OF EXTRACT (Also cite doc. distribution, Dissen. No., etc. - if applicable)

MASFERRER, ROLANDO /CR/
201-042664
SEX M DOB ?
CIT ?
OCC ?
EVALUATION
100-009-016
DBD -49749
24 JAN 73
FBI
02
ACTIVE AS AN HAITIEN EXILE ASSOCIATED WITH
JACK S. HORGER, AN EXILED CUBAN

Indicate The Subject, Project Or
201 File No. In Which This
Form Is To Be Filed.

SUBJECT OF 201 (Lest, First, Middle)

R 7302201152
201-
042669
SECRET

--- Page 26 ---

14-00000

DOC. SUBJECT
SOURCE CRYPTONYM
SS REFERENCE
DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

FILE CLASSIFICATION OF RECORD COPY
SOURCE INFORMATION
DATE OF INFO.
TEXT OF EXTRACT (Also cite doc. distribution, Dissen. No., etc. - if applicable)

MASFERRER RUJAS, ROLANDO ARCADIO.
201-042669
SEX M DOB ?
CIT ?
OCC ?
EVALUATION
100-009-C16
DBD -47229
08 DEC 72
FBI.
ASSOCIATE OF FATHER JEAN BAPTISTE GEORGES
/201-270455/

Indicate The Subject, Project Or
201 File No. In Which This
Form Is To Be Filed.

SUBJECT OF 201 (Lest, First, Middle)

R 7212250360
201-
042669
SECRET

--- Page 27 ---

14-00000
(Then Filled In)
EXTRACT AND CROSS REFERENCE
DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

FILE CLASSIFICATION OF RECORD COPY
SOURCE INFORMATION

TEXT OF EXTRACT (Also cite doc. distribution, Dissen. No., etc. - if applicable)

MASFERRER ROJAS, ROLANDO ARCADIO
201-042669 21270455
SEX M DOB 7
CIT ?
OCC ?
DBD -39687
10 JUL 72
FBI
ALLEGEDLY INVOLVED IN INVASION PLANS RE HAITI.

Indicate The Subject, Project Or
201 File No. In Which This
Form Is To Be Filed.

SUBJECT OF 201 (Lest, First, Middle)

R 7207260332
201-
042669
SECRET

--- Page 28 ---

14-00000

SECRET
(When Filled In)
EXTRACT AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

FILE CLASSIFICATION OF RECORD COPY
SOURCE INFORMATION

TEXT OF EXTRACT (Also cite doc. distribution, Dissen. No