14-00000

104-10333-10008 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

NOTE FOR: J. Barry Harrelson @ DA
Gloria M. Boyd @ DA
Barbara A. Standley @ DA
FROM: John F. Pereira
DATE: 12/07/94 05:00:07 PM
SUBJECT: Meeting with JFK Board Staff

I've confirmed with David Marwell that we will meet with him and several of his staff in Ames at 10:00, Tuesday, 20 December.

For D/CSI: Marwell asked us to provide background on our JFK review process to him and the four or five members of his staff who will be on board. Among them will be Sheryl Walter, their General Counsel. I've invited Bob Eatinger, OGC to participate.

Cc: Brian S. Latell @ DA

UNCLASSIFIED

--- Page 2 ---

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

(draft)
BRIEFING OUTLINE (For JFK Board)

1. Background on CIA's approach to review of JFK records
- Organization of the effort
- The review process
2. Description of records under review
- Condition of records
- Sequestered documents
- Oswald 201 file
- Microfilm (printouts)
- Other records
- HSCA
- SSCI
- HPSCI
- FBI, other third agency
- Warren Commission, Rockefeller Commission
- Presidential libraries -Ford, Kennedy, Johnson
3. Status report on processing of documents
- Records released to NARA (in full, sanitized)
- Records remaining to be completed
- Records withheld (examples)
- Types of information sanitized
4. Issues/Problems
- Degree of sanitization
- Relevancy

--- Page 3 ---

5.
- Privacy
- Duplicates
- Office of Personnel files
- Office of Security files
- Identification aids (examples)
- Indexing
- Jim Lesar litigation
- Inadvertent release of agent's identity
- Review of records by the Board
- Summaries (examples- financial records)

--- Page 4 ---

CIA JFK Collections

1) Oswald 201 file: 17 boxes (Aug 93/Jan 94 Release)
1) JFK hard copy, 63 boxes (Aug 93/Feb 94 Release)

2) JFK microfilm, 72 reels (currently under review)

The Microfilm Reels contain the files that the HSCA staff either requested or had access to. A great deal of the material is duplicative of that found in the 63 hard copy boxes including the complete Oswald 201 file. There are also files not related to the assassination story and files not reviewed by the HSCA.

HGR has reviewed all the microfilm material (page by page) with the exception of the Oswald 201 file. The Microfilm collection has been divided into to two parts:

1) documents reviewed for release and being prepared for NARA (records related to the assassination, the investigations, or the various conspiracy theories),

2) documents reviewed but being held pending discussion with the board (see attachment).

--- Page 5 ---

Microfilm Material Not Processed for Release (Pending Discussion with the Board):

Oswald 201 File - this appears to be a duplicate of the hard copy 201 file reviewed in 1993. 12+ Reels/approximately 30,600 pages

CIA Staff Employees' Personnel Files - Approximately 10,800 pages located on 7 different reels. Request that these files not be considered part of the JFK collection as a matter of privacy. Only a small portions of these files have any relevance to the JFK investigations and we believe that the documents related to their roles in the JFK story were released in the JFK hard copy collection. We have reviewed each of the OP files and prepared a classified summary for the Board.

Non-Related Material - Most of these documents fall into three major categories:

Individual 201 files : These files cover the entire period of agency interest or contact with a person. For individuals who are not "key figures" in the JFK story, those sections of the file that are outside relevant time frames or can not be linked to Oswald, the assassination, the various investigations, or any of the conspiracy theories have been treated as non-related.

Project/Operational Files: Many of these cover the complete life of a project. Sections of these files deal with operations which have no connection with the assassination or fall in only part of a relevant time frame. For example there are over 3000 pages on the Mexico City Photo operation covering the 1960's and 1970's. The only related material is that falling in the time frame of Oswald's visit to Mexico City and the investigation following the assassination.

Cuban Exile Groups/Operations: The anti-Castro activities of the Cuban exiles in the US during 1960 - 1963 are considered relevant to the assassination. However, some of the organizations and individuals members continued to run operations against Castro into the 1970's. The exile activities after the assassination are generally not considered related unless they involve plots to assassinate Castro, the continuation of pre-assassination projects or the Garrison Investigation.

--- Page 6 ---

Notes:

I did not address the financial records of the CRC that we are replacing with a summary (need to review again); we will probably have to wait until we meet with the full board to get their thinking on summaries.

There are other categories/types of documents that are non-“related but do not fit in the above categories. For example, the HSCA requested files on 29 defectors; they chose only 11 for their defector sample to be compared with Oswald. We treated the 11 as related and the rest as non-related. However, the number of pages involved is small compared to the above three categories.

--- Page 7 ---

facsimile
TRANSMITTAL
to: John Pereira
fax #: 703-243-8343
re: Upcoming Visit
date: December 19, 1994
pages: 1, including cover sheet.

The following ARRB Staff will be coming:

David G. Marwell
Gene Burpoe (Starting 27 December)
Jeremy Gunn (Interim TS)
Sheryl Walter (Interim TS)
Tom Samoluk (Clearance Pending)

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT

From the desk of ..

David G. Marwell
Executive Director
Assassination Records Review Board
600 C Street NW Room 208
Washington, DC 20004

(202) 724-0088
Fax. (202) 724-0457

--- Page 8 ---

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

20 Dec 94

BRIEFING OUTLINE (For JFK Board Staff)

INTRODUCTIONS
AGENDA: Discuss review process for JFK records
Status of document review
Discuss indexing (Gloria)
Walk-through/see documents
1. Overview of CIA's approach to review of JFK records
a. Process of review began in April 1992
b. How the original "core' file was organized
- Sequestered file
- Oswald 201
c. How CIA identified additional records
- Oswald 201 file
- Search request in 1993
2. Organization of the effort
- Staffing
- Steps in the review process:
-- Reviewers
-- Senior reviewers provided guidance
-- Coordinated with directorates
-- Coordinated with third agencies
- Guidance (JFK Law, specific)
3. Description of records under review
- Condition of records
-- poor quality
-- not organized
-- lots of duplicates
-- large number of press items
- Sequestered documents (64 boxes, 127,000 pages)
- Oswald 201 file (17 boxes, 35,000 pages)

--- Page 9 ---

- Gates released a pre-assassination file on Oswald to Congress in 1992

- Microfilm (1 of 64 boxes, 72 reels, 164,000 pages)
(printouts)

- Other records

- DCI Morning meeting minutes (400 pages)

- HSCA - 14,000 pp referrals [1,000 to do] complete

- SSCI

- HPSCI

- FBI, other third agency - 10,000 pp

- Warren Commission, Rockefeller Commission

- Presidential libraries -Ford, Kennedy, Johnson
- Ford Library documents reviewed

4. Status report on processing of documents

- Records released to NARA (in full, sanitized)
(attachment)

- Records remaining to be completed
- HSCA, Working files, Presidential libraries
- Records withheld (examples)
- Types of information sanitized
-- identity of agents
-- sensitive sources and methods
-- relations with foreign government
-- unwarranted invasion of privacy
- Summaries (examples--financial records)
5. Issues/Problems (examples of postponed information)

- Degree of sanitization

- Relevancy e.g., chrono cables from Mexico City
(Chinese ops items)

- Privacy

- Duplicates (Oswald 201 in microfilm)

--- Page 10 ---

- Office of Personnel files
Office of Security files

- Hand- written notes prepared by HSCA staffers
-- 5x8 cards, note pads, sensitive operational
information, some of it inaccurate

- Identification aids (examples)
Indexing

- Jim Lesar litigation--receives copies of docs, i.a.

- Inadvertent release of agent's identity
(attachment)

6. Discuss arrangements for review of records by the Staff

--- Page 11 ---

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS
RELEASE IN FULL
2000

Assassination Review Board

Second Public Meeting, 12 July 1994
Room 105, NARA

Official Attendees: Members of the Board, Steve Tilly, NARA.

Public: 25/30 in attendance including four from FBI (Terry
& Grant), Lesar, and Newman. Also one network
(ABC?) rep.

Purpose: Transact official business, briefing form Tilly on
recent releases; discuss future board activities

Selected items of HRG Interest:

I spoke with Jack after the meeting. Ex. Director MARWELL
will be on board 8 August; they expect to be in new offices
by 15 August and have a core staff in September. Jack said
(after meeting) he would like to meet us last part of
August/early September.

Tilly said that the CIA would be releaseing 70,000 pages
later this summer (he ask me before the meeting if July was
still a good date -- I said "no"). He also mentioned the
20,000 pages of HSCA material in our files that we would be
reviewing this summer.

FBI received praise from the board; not much discussion of
CIA. DOD agencies are now the "bad boys". Hall ask several
pointed questions about the "small" DOD releases then Newman
blasted NSA and DIA during the question period.

Items/Issues addressed by the Board during the meeting:

Announced appointment of Executive Director David G. MARWELL
(see bio sheet). Will be on board 8 August.

Passed resolution extending the Board to October 1995
MOA signed with the White House - funds through Sept. 1994

Discussed status of items before Congress (extending the
Board to October 1996 and funding). Funds included in House
version of appropriation bill/deleted from Senate. They
assume that the funds will be restored in Conference;
however, could be reduced which would impact on number of
public meeting to held outside of Washington.

Expects to move into new office space by mid-August and have
a core staff in place in September. The bulk of the staff
would come on board in October.

--- Page 12 ---

Plans to begin public hearing on defining an assassination
record in Sept. Anna Nelson commented on the importance of
identifying what is a record before beginning to address
specific issues/documents.

William Joyce reported that he had sent letters to 55
agencies asking about the quaintly of records still held by
the agency and had received 20 responses several which had
identified additional sources for documents (no specifics)

Steve Tilley gave a briefing on status of releases.

Releases since last meeting include tapes of telephone calls
from the Johnson Library, the FBI files, Church Committee (7
boxes), and DOJ's FOIA litigation files. This month an
additional 10 boxes of Church Committee and some Pike
Committee Files (only a small part deals with JFK). Expects
a release from the CIA of approximately 70,000 pages later
this summer (mentioned the 73 Reels).

Tilley also described the 20,000 pages of HSCA material in
CIA files and that NARA would be acting as House agent on
these record.

Questions (to Tilly) by the Board:

Size of the NARA collection? - 1200 Cubic Feet (2500 pages
per foot)

(Jack) what was the number of documents with redactions? --
Steve said he could not give a figure, would guess less than
50%

(Graff) any problems with agencies' willingness to release
documents -- None, considers the work be the various
agencies as a remarkable effort to turn over records. The
problem was the volume of material and the time it takes to
review.

A question about Senate and House Committee reviews
procedures led to a discussion where it was clear that
neither the Board nor Tilly had a good fix on that part of
the review. The point was made that CIA information in
those documents (and in our HSCA material) would be reviewed
by CIA reviewers; the originator of the information was the
key reviewer).

(Jack) how were the agencies doing in defining
“assassination records? -- Tilly described some of his
discussions about assassination records within NARA and with
other agencies. He mentioned that the "major agencies" had
records that they felt fell outside the scope which they
planned to discuss with the board.

--- Page 13 ---

(Hall) how was the cooperation of the DOD intelligence
agencies including NSA / how much had they withheld ? --
Tilly said he found them cooperative but that the release
was small. Did not know off hand how much was withheld.
Hall considered so few record as "suspect" and ask if NARA
had followed up. Tilly said no. NARA did not have the
authority to question the agencies about their searches. He
indicated that the Army among others had not responded to
NARA's initial request. (During the public comments part of
the meeting Newman and Lesar returned to the question of DOD
compliance. )

Several members of the Board had questions about the
Presidential Libraries; Tilly described his role and the
process.

When Jack open the meeting for public comments, Newman
returned to the question about DOD releases. He claimed
that NSA had release only one true document and that most of
the DIA files was administrative or news clipping. He said
he had seen at least 30 DOD documents in CIA and FBI files
that did not appear in the DIA release.

Newman then ask if the agencies could withhold documents
from the Board; Jack responded that under the law thar only
Board had the power to withold a document.

Lesar ask if the Board had given consideration to his letter
concerning the definition of an assassination record. Jack
thanked him for the letters but the Board would not be able
to address the issues Lesar raised until they had a staff to
do the research.

A third "expert" named Mark Zaid ask a question about Post
Office files that had been released before and how they
compared with recent Post Office files found by NARA. Anna
responded that such questions require a staff.

--- Page 14 ---

ASSASSINATION RECORDS REVIEW BOARD
600 E Street, N.W.
Washington, DC 20004

MEMORANDUM
via facsimile: pages
TO: JOHN PEREIRA
FR: JOHN R. TUNHEIM
Chair
RE: PEREIRA LETTERS
DATE: September 23, 1994

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT
PHONE: (612) 296-2351

Please disregard the letter faxed to you on the issues the Review Board would like to review on Wednesday, as that was a preliminary draft of the issues. On Monday you will be faxed a letter which will be in final form of the issues the Review Board would like to discuss. I apologize for any confusion this may have caused. Thank you.

ADDRESS FOR REVIEW BOARD CHAIR
102 State Capitol - St. Paul, Minnesota 55155-1002
612 296-2351 » TDD 612-297-7206 + Fax 612-297-4193

--- Page 15 ---

ASSASSINATION RECORDS REVIEW BOARD
600 E STREET N.W.
WASHINGTON, DC 20004
202-724-0088 * Fax 202-724-0457

September 23, 1994
via facsimile: 703/243-8343

John Pereira
Chief, Historical Review Group
Room 404 Ames Building
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D.C. 20505

Dear Mr. Pereira:

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT

This is to confirm our discussion in which we agreed to meet on Wednesday, September 28, 1994 at 10:00 a.m. in your offices to discuss the agency’s review of records related to the assassination of President Kennedy. I expect all of the Board members, Kermit Hall, Henry Graff, Anna Nelson, and William Joyce to join me, as well as the Board’s Executive Director, David Marwell. As I indicated, Mr. Marwell now has a “temporary top secret” security classification. I expect to fax to you on Monday a list of the questions that the Board would like to review with you and your staff, questions along the lines we discussed on Wednesday.

We look forward to meeting with you and beginning our understanding of the issues and the process that the CIA is following with respect to the records that fall within the Review Board’s jurisdiction. Thank you very much.

Sincerely,

John R. Tunheim
Chair

cc: Board Members
David Marwell

ADDRESS FOR REVIEW BOARD CHAIR
102 State Capitol - St Paul, MN 55155
612-296-2351 + TDD 612-297-7206 + Fax 612-297-4193

--- Page 16 ---

ASSASSINATION RECORDS REVIEW BOARD
600 E STREET N.W.
WASHINGTON, DC 20004
202-724-0088 « Fax 202-724-0457

September 26, 1994
via facsimile: 703/243-8343

John Pereira
Chief, Historical Review Group
Room 404 Ames Building
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D.C. 20505

Dear Mr. Pereira:

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT

In our briefing meeting on Wednesday, the Review Board would like to address the following issues, along with whatever issues you may wish to raise.

1. Overview of the JFK Assassination Record review process followed by the CIA, including:

a. Formation of the original core file that was organized in response to previous congressional investigations;

b. The process by which the CIA identified additional assassination records in order to fulfill the mandate of the current legislation.

2. Overview of the process by which the CIA has identified assassination records, including relevant discussion of the filing system;

3. Discussion of the files which include assassination records, including:

a. Briefing on the filing system(s), content of CIA archives, effect of reorganization of CIA since 1960s on filing systems, etc.

4. The CIA’s view as to how the term “assassination records" should be defined;

ADDRESS FOR REVIEW BOARD CHAIR
102 State Capitol - St Paul, MN 55155
612-296-2351 - TDD 612-297-7206 + Fax 612-297-4193

--- Page 17 ---

John Pereira
Page Two
September 26, 1994

5. Discussion of postponement issues from the CIA’s view, including reviewing examples of postponed information and categories of postponed information;

6. Discussion about relevant files at the Ford Library;

7. Review issue of operational files as it relates to assassination records.

We look forward to seeing you on Wednesday. Please contact me or Dave Marwell if there is any matter that we should discuss prior to Wednesday. We are planning a 4-5 hour meeting. Thanks very much.

Sincerely,

John R. Tunheim
Chair
cc: Board Members
David Marwell

--- Page 18 ---

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS
RELEASE IN FULL
2000
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

28 Sep 94

BRIEFING OUTLINE (For JFK Board)

INTRODUCTION: Discuss review process for JFK records
Walk-through look at documents
Possible demonstration of indexing (Gloria)
1. Overview of CIA's approach to review of JFK records
a. How the original "core' file was organized
b. How CIA identified additional records
- Oswald 201 file
- Search request in 1993
2. Overview of CIA filing system (which include JFK records)
Issue of operational files
3a Organization of the effort
- Staff (from attached data sheet)
- Steps in the review process:
-- Reviewers
-- Senior reviewers provided guidance
-- Coordinated with directorates
-- Coordinated with third agencies
3b Description of records under review
- Condition of records
-- poor quality
-- not organized
-- lots of duplicates
-- large number of press items.
- Sequestered documents (64 boxes, 127,000 pages)
- Oswald 201 file (17 boxes, 35,000 pages)

- Gates released a pre-assassination file on Oswald to Congress in 1992

- Microfilm (1 of 64 boxes, 72 reels, 164,000 pages)

--- Page 19 ---

(printouts)
- Other records

- DCI Morning meeting minutes (400 pages)

- HSCA - 20,000 pp.

- SSCI

- HPSCI

- FBI, other third agency - 10,000 pp

- Warren Commission, Rockefeller Commission,

- Presidential libraries -Ford, Kennedy, Johnson
4. How assassination record should be defined ?
5. Status report on processing of documents

- Records released to NARA (in full, sanitized)
(attachment)

- Records remaining to be completed
HSCA, Working files, Presidential libraries
- Records withheld (examples)
- Types of information sanitized
-- identity of agents
-- sensitive sources and methods
-- relations with foreign government
-- unwarranted invasion of privacy
- Summaries (examples--financial records)
6. Issues/Problems (examples of postponed information)

- Degree of sanitization

- Relevancy e.g., chrono cables from Mexico City
(Chinese ops items)

- Privacy
- Duplicates (Oswald 201 in microfilm)

- Office of Personnel files
Office of Security files

--- Page 20 ---

- Hand- written notes prepared by HSCA staffers
-- 5x8 cards, note pads, sensitive operational
information, some of it inaccurate

- Identification aids (examples)
Indexing

- Jim Lesar litigation--receives copies of docs, i.a.

- Inadvertent release of agent's identity
(attachment )

7. Ford Library--relevant files.

8. Question: Arrangements for review of records by the Board ?

--- Page 21 ---

SECRET

The following Agency members will attend the meeting with the ARRB on Wednesday, 2 August 1995:

Eleanor Neiman
Directorate of Operations

Michael Luce
Directorate of Operations

John Kambourian,
Directorate of Operations

Fred Wickham
Directorate of Operations

William McNair
Directorate of Operations

Robert Eatinger
Office of General Counsel

Barry Harrelson
Historical Review Group

SECRET

--- Page 22 ---

SECRET

The following Agency members will attend the meeting with the ARRB on Thursday, 18 May 1995:

Eleanor Neiman
Senior Coordinator, Directorate of Operations

Margaret Sanders
Latin America Division, Directorate of Operations

Robert Eatinger
Office of General Counsel

William McNair
Information Review Officer, Directorate of Operations

Michael Luce
Latin America Division, Directorate of Operations

John Pereira
Historical Review Group

Barry Harrelson
Historical Review Group

SECRET

--- Page 23 ---

1. Mr. Devine will discuss the perspective of the Directorate of Operations with respect to sensitive information that may appear in the assassination records. This includes information related to protection of sources and liaison relationships.

2. The following Agency members will attend the meeting with the ARRB on Monday, 6 March 1995:

John Devine
Associate Deputy Director for Operations

Donald Cryer
Deputy Chief, Information Management Staff

Eleanor Neiman
Senior Coordinator, Directorate of Operations

Margaret Sanders,
Latin America Division, Directorate of Operations

Robert Eatinger
Office of General Counsel

Frederick Wickham
Chief of External Support, Information Management

John Pereira
Historical Review Group

Barry Harrelson
Historical Review Group

--- Page 24 ---

To Mr. David Marwell:
The following Agency members will attend the meeting with the ARRB on Monday, 6 March 1995:

John Devine

Donald Cryer

Eleanor Neiman

Margaret Sanders
Robert Eatinger
Frederick Wickham
John Pereira

Barry Harrelson

--- Page 25 ---

CERTIFICATION FOR 6 MARCH 1995
SI/TK/G&B

David Marwell 080-30-7709
Thomas J. Gunn 529-74-8907
Thomas E. Samoluk 030-50-1292

Sheryl Walter 506-80-0934

--- Page 26 ---

SECRET

11 December 1995

NOTE FOR THE FILE

SUBJECT: Briefing of JFK Board Staff: Cover

1. On 1 December, Barry Gibson, Deputy Chief of the Office of Central Cover, briefed the Executive Director of the Assassinations Records Review Board and other Board staff members. Also participating from CIA were John Goins and Eleanor Neiman of IMS; Linda Cipriani, OGC; and Barry Harrelson and I from HRG.

2. The focus of the briefing was on the need to protect the names of former Agency employees that appeared in the JFK records. Gibson discussed the risks involved for people who retired under cover if they were identified in the public record as former CIA employees. He discussed the efforts made by his office to obtain written statements from the more than 100 individuals whose names appear.

3. The purpose of the briefing was to assist the Board in its review of names when it meets on 12-13 December. The Agency was asked in particular to present, in writing, evidence of risk for each of the names that will be discussed at the Board's meeting.

John F. Pereira

CL BY:
CL REASON:
DECL ON:
DRV FROM:

SECRET

--- Page 27 ---

ARRB OPEN MEETING
6 August 1996

HANDOUTS

Memorandum of Understanding Between the Director of Central
Intelligence and the Select Committee on Assassinations

Office of Legislative Counsel Memorandum (OLC 79-2477) dtd
August 1979; Subject: HSCA Records

Request of Records Disposition Authority
CIA's HSCA JFK Sequestered Records - I [Boxes 1-63]

CIA's HSCA JFK Sequestered Records - II [Box 64]

--- Page 28 ---

FOR RECORDS DISPOSITION AUTHORITY
(See Instructions on reverse)

TO: GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,
NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND RECORDS SERVICE, WASHINGTON, DC 20408
1. FROM (AGENCY OR ESTABLISHMENT)
Central Intelligence Agency
2. MAJOR SUBDIVISION
Office of Legislative Counsel - (08-76)
3. MINOR SUBDIVISION
4. NAME OF PERSON WITH WHOM TO CONFER
Elizabeth S. Lancer, Jon E. Wolfe
David W. Landram
6. CERTIFICATE OF AGENCY REPRESENTATIVE:
5. TEL. EXT.
(351-7776
7.
NC1-263-80-1
DATE RECEIVED
June 3, 1980
NOTIFICATION TO AGENCY
In accordance with the provisions of 44 U.S.C. 3303a the disposal re-
quest, including amendments, is approved except for items that may
be exempted pursuant to 36 CFR 1225.24.
THE ARCHIVISTIS 10.
NOT REQUIRED FOR APPROVAL OF
PERMANENT RETENTION OF RECORDS
Date
Archivist of the United States
I hereby certify that I am authorized to act for this agency in matters pertaining to the disposal of the agency's records;
that the records proposed for disposal in this Request of 2 page(s) are not now needed for the business of
this agency or will not be needed after the retention periods specified.
A Request for immediate disposal.
☐ B Request for disposal after a specified period of time or request for permanent
retention.
C. DATE
5/23/80
7.
ITEM NO.
D. SIGNATURE OF AGENCY,
Edgar T. McHenry
E. TITLE
Associate Records Management Officer
6. DESCRIPTION OF ITEM
(With inclusive Dates or Retention Periods)
9.
SAMPLE OR
JOB NO.
10.
ACTION TAKEN
1. MATERIAL HELD BY CIA RELATING TO THE HOUSE SELECT
COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS INVESTIGATIONS
Consists of all substantive documents and other materials
created or reviewed as the result of inquiries made of
the CIA by the House Select Committee on Assassinations
(HSCA) during its investigations into the deaths of
President Kennedy and Martin Luther King. The collection
includes CIA files requested for review, documents
generated by the HSCA as the result of its reviews,
correspondence exchanged between the CIA and the HSCA,
and pertinent supporting documentation. The bulk of the
collection consists of CIA files reviewed by the Committee
and is primarily in the form of 16mm roll film produced,
stored, and inspected in accordance with Federal standards
for archival microfilm. The microfilming was done in
those instances when it was necessary to return the paper
files to their original locations. (Each paper file
microfilmed will be maintained or disposed of in accor-
dance with approved records control schedules covering
the record series of which the file is a part.)
2. Silver original 16mm microfilm produced, stored, and
inspected in accordance with Federal standards.

--- Page 29 ---

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Request for Records Disposition Authority-Continuation
7.
ITEM NO.
8. DESCRIPTION OF ITEM
(With Inclusive Dates or Retention Periods)
SAMPLE OR
JOB NO.
PAGE OF
2 10. 2
ACTION TAKEN
b. Textual records not contained in "a" above.
Permanent. Records to be retained in the Agency Archives
and Records Center. Not to be opened without the
concurrence of the Legislative and General Counsels.
Records will be offered for transfer to the National
Archives and Records Service when national security
considerations permit.
Initial inspection of item 1a microfilm will be conducted
as required by 41CFR 101-11.507-2, at 2 year intervals
from the approval date of this records disposition request.
Amendments to this schedule concurred in by
Jon E. Wolfe/CIA, and R C Tagge/NARS-NCD, 6/04-05/80.

Four copies, including original, to be submitted to the National Archives

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Prescribed by General Services
Administration.

--- Page 30 ---

OLC 79-2477

10 August 1979

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. George Frates
AC/Records Management Division
ISS/DDA
FROM : Rodger S. Gabrielson
Office of Legislative Counsel

SUBJECT : HSCA Records

1. During the course of the HSCA investigations, much classified
information was assembled in response to HSCA requests. Three categories
of information must now be disposed of under terms of the HSCA/DCI
Memorandum of Understanding.

Category 1a: Classified material from Agency
holdings, requested by the HSCA, which HSCA staff
members reviewed.

Category 1b: Classified material from Agency
holdings, requested by the HSCA, but which HSCA
staff members did not review.

Category 2: Material generated by the HSCA from
Agency classified holdings made available to the
HSCA in response to the latter's request. (Note:
This HSCA material is considered by the HSCA as its
property and, therefore, not releasable to the
public under the Freedom of Information Act. An
inventory of this material received from HSCA has
been completed.)

Category 3: Classified correspondence and certain
unclassified correspondence exchanged between this
Agency and the HSCA.

2. The HSCA has indicated its desire that copies of these three
categories of material be held in sealed and segregated storage to
ensure the preservation of all relevant records pertaining to the
phase of the investigation involving this Agency. In order to accom-
modate the HSCA, but also leave our own records accessible for routine
purposes, a photographic copy should be made of each official Agency
document made available in response to a specific request by the HSCA
(Category 1a and 1b).

--- Page 31 ---

3. Upon completion of the task of photographing the Category 1a
and 1b documents, those photographic copies (Category 1), the HSCA-
generated materials based upon Agency material (Category 2), and the
designated Agency-HSCA correspondence (Category 3), will be sealed and
held in segregated storage by the Agency, in accordance with schedules
re-established by the Archivist of the United States.

4. Documents are now in the individual custodies of members of
the Agency HSCA Task Force. These individuals are listed by attachment.

5. Please advise on your recommended procedures for photographing
these documents and procedures for entering these copies into sealed
storage.

Rodger S. Gabrielson
Attachment

--- Page 32 ---

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN THE DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE
AND THE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

August 1977

I. Preparation of Materials

A. The Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) will cooperate fully
in the investigations conducted by the Select Committee on Assassinations
(Committee) by providing access, as requested, to classified information
within the releasing authority of the CIA, and held by the CIA, that bears
upon the study and investigation authorized by H. Res. 222. CIA will
notify the Committee of any requested information held by CIA not
within the releasing authority of the CIA, and notify the Committee of the
proper authority to contact to obtain the information. No document or a
portion of the document in the possession of CIA will be withheld without
written notice of that action to the Committee. Access to all classified
information designated for protection from unauthorized disclosure by the
Director of Central Intelligence (DCI) and currently held by any federal
agency or department shall be governed by this memorandum.

B. Documentary material will be made available as expeditiously
and completely as feasible, subject to the responsibility of the DCI to
protect sensitive intelligence sources and methods. The Committee and
CIA will periodically agree upon a list of identities that will not be excised
from materials