104-0172-10278 [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

DISPATCH

Chief, WE
Chief, SR
FROM: CLANPLATLA

SUBJECT: Tabe Maria Ingeborg SLIDOR (201-769030)

PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY CABLED DATA
CARD INDEXED

Chief of Station, Helsinki 14-1
REDCOAT/LCIMPROVE/AELADLE

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES:
19-1 HELS 3059, 2 June 65
REF: OPHA-7261, 4 June 65
ACTION: FYI

1.  Subject was interviewed for an immigrant visa on 7 July 65. Unfortunately Clastonbury could not be present because of other business. The interviewing officer was briefed prior to the meeting and faced the applicant with a series of questions regarding her association with Soviets and any approaches that may have been made to her in light of her unusual life. In response to these questions, we are told that SLIOOR gave thoughtful consideration to each question and probably truthfully replied that although she has met several Soviet diplomats, no approaches for cooperation were made to her. She realized the full implication of the questions and made no attempts to be evasive. Subject was given her visa immediately after the interview.

2.  Attachment 1 is a translation of the YALIK traces on subject. As noted in the traces SLIOOR was an acquaintance of (201-150156) and Georgiy *STENING: born 29 June 1913 in Moscow (aka Georgi STEINING [OPHA-1807, 30 July 56 and [PW] 1456, 9 October 56). These names were not used in the interview.

3.  Attachment 2 is a thermofax copy of SLIOOR's visa; Attachment 3; birth record; Attachment 4, marriage certificate.

4.  From subject's visa application her address in the U.S. is listed as Fort Hood, Texas.

Attachments:
as stated

Distribution:
3 - WE w/atts
2 - SR w/atta
2 - [HELS] w/atts
14-1

CROSS REFERENCE TO:
301-150156
WALTER R. CLASTONBURY

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: A-7320
CLASS&CATION: SECRET
DATE: 14 July 65
FILE NUMBER: 201-768030
81BR
