14-00000
(104-10185-10024) [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

SECRET
(When Filled in)
NAME CHECK. DOCUMENT SERVICE, AND PARTIAL CONSOLIDATION REQUEST
RID CONTROL NO. (Filled in by RID)
File: 20.
DAYS
FROM: (enters name)
McHale
TO:
RID/INDEX
REQUESTER
RID/FILES
REQUESTER
RID/DRS
RID/201
RID/ANALYSIS
RID/MIS
RID/INDEX
BRANCH
COM
03
31/0/035
3510-87
ROOM
DATE
INITIALS
5-11-22
SURNAME
BESTA
EXTENSION
3661
CHECKING INSTRUCTIONS
Pls call
When Likely
I -attached
SUBJECT TO BE CHECKED
DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH
May 1918
CITIZENSHIP
Italian
RESIDENCE
23 Via Teodosio, Milan, Italy
RID/INDEX TO REQUESTER
NG PERTINENT IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION
GIVEN NAMES
Lamberto
SPELLING VARIATIONS
AKA, ALIASES
OTHER IDENTIFYING DATA (Occupation, sex, CP membership, I. S. affiliations, etc.)
Owns Export-Import firm LABE (or LABEX) in Milan
COMMENTS
CARD REFERENCES ATTACHED
BE SURE ALL SUBJECT INFORMATION IS CORRECT
Type or print all entries.
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce
On receipt of index card reproductions: draw a green diagonal line across items you don't want RID to obtain for you.

Edit (use green) the Copyflo listing to reflect: (a) Cards to be destroyed (green D).
Examples: referenced document has been destroyed; less informative than a retained card leading to the same information; referenced information not significant. (b)
Corrections and additions, including ∞ when card reflects all facts in document.
(c) OK all cards that are correct as typed.

Could this trace be consolidated into an existing or new 201 file? ☐ yes ☐ no. (If yes, complete the following - no other form required.)

201 PARTIAL CONSOLIDATION
(201 Number will be supplied by RID. If new 202 number has been obtained by desk, note it in this space.)

CRYPTONYM
ASSIGNED
RESTRICTION (If any)
FILE TO
BE KEPT
RID
DESK
ACCESS RESTRICTED
YES ☐ no

ALWAYS RETURN THIS FORM WITH COPYFLO OF CARD REPRODUCTIONS. IF YOU HAVE REQUESTED A 201 PARTIAL CONSOLIDATION, ALSO RETURN PERTINENT DOCUMENTS.

---

14-00000
BESTA, FNU
DOB ?.
CIT ?
ALLEGED ITALIAN AGENT IN MILAN
043-005-004
CIR -13764
TS 107273
PIO
SER. 7889
BESTA, Lamberto
43-5-1-4334
C14-374
4 Apr 55
Att.
Orderi
trying
to
L FI
Can't locate
BESTA, Lamberto
NILA 136
IN 29925
2 Mar 54

---

14-00000
BESTA, Lamberto

---

14-00000
Files are attached with pertinent items clipped.

Lamberto BESTA

April 1955: Resident of Milan at Via Teodosio 23, collaborated for a brief period with DEMIGAD regarding clandestine traffic in strategic materials. Lives by trafficking in cigarettes and other things - not excluding dope. Also maintains contact with head of [French intelligence] in Italy in political field. Person of doubtful honesty, braggart and capable of carrying out any kind of activity for money. (Source Demod)

March 1954: [Ital service] (Min of Int) offered to turn over to [Milan station] full control of PIC operation in which BESTA was involved. Hqs warned "heads off" because of BESTA's extremely bad reputation - he has been implicated in all sorts of contraband traffic as well as reputation of completely non-anchored intelligence operator.

Nov 1953: He was an attempted double agent operation by [Ital service] into Yugo I.S.
