Okay, I have reviewed the Tesseract and Google Vision OCR texts and produced the following consolidated and cleaned version:

---

14-00000

(104-10182-10003)

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: WIROGUE

INCLUSIVE DATES: 201-233472

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: BULKY

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE RECEIVED: 27 JULY 78

DATE RETURNED: 27 JULY 78

REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME): DAN HARDWAY

SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL: Dan Hardway

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

---

TERMINATION AGREEMENT

The undersigned hereby acknowledges that a contractual relationship has heretofore existed between him and the Government of the United States of America (hereinafter referred to as "the Government"). The Government has fully and completely satisfied all of its obligations to the undersigned. The undersigned on behalf of himself, his heirs, executors, administrators and assigns hereby releases and forever discharges the Government, its officers, agents and employees from any and all debts, claims, benefits or demands arising out of the above mentioned contractual relationship.

The undersigned fully understands and appreciates the fact that the prior relationship between the parties and all information and knowledge acquired in the course of said relationship (particularly with reference to persons and methods employed by the Government) are the property of said Government and constitute military secrets affecting its security. The undersigned knows and understands that these are protected by German Law under the provisions of Annex A to the Convention on Rights and Obligations of Foreign Forces in the Federal Republic of Germany.

The Government is highly appreciative of the excellent services heretofore rendered by the undersigned. However, to preserve the security above mentioned, it is further understood and agreed that both parties shall hereafter disavow that the relationship ever existed.

The undersigned further agrees he possesses no right, title or interest in any information or knowledge arising out of said relationship and he further solemnly swears that he will never divulge, publish or reveal by word, conduct or any other means the fact of said relationship nor any such knowledge or information arising therefrom except as authorized in writing by the same official of the Government as that who witnesses this oath.

WITNESS: William Murmann

Frankfort/Main, this 2nd day of March 1964

Georg F. Sanders (L.S.)

---

14-5000

REPORT ON CONTACT WITH AGENT OR DEFECTOR

SUBJECT: WIROGUE

DATE: 30 September 1964

TIME: 1030-1400 hours

PLACE: Automobile in the Vicinity of Kuhwaldstr.

COMMENTS: ARTHUR A. LIFALL, Case Officer

WIROGUE called at approximately 0945 hours on the Stage I Ops phone and asked for Mr. Murmann. C.O. took the call and was advised that the caller was "Dave" and that he desired to speak to a colleague of Mr. Murmann at the earliest possible time. C.O. made arrangements to meet him in front of the safe house at 51 Kuhwaldstr which WIROGUE occupied during his 1 1/2 year association with HARVARD (this is no longer a HARVARD safe house). C.O. did not tell "Dave" his name over the telephone and indicated that he would be able to recognize "Dave". C.O. picked "Dave" up on the corner of Volta and Kuhwaldstr and drove a couple of blocks to a parking place where the conversation took place.

C.O. learned that WIROGUE was no longer employed by the Bochler Company in Munich. He apparently has had a couple of factory jobs since that job and is currently unemployed. According to "Dave" he is without work, without friends, without money and only contacted Murmann's old office because he is "at the end of his rope”. Subject stated that he had tried hard to find suitable employment in Germany, but that there was absolutely nothing available which he could do. It was obvious that WIROGUE wished to renew his association with the AIS and that "intelligence work" was the only kind of employment for which he felt himself really qualified. When C.O. indicated to him that the employment possibilities had not changed since WIROGUE was told there was no possibility of future employment with the Agency, Subject said that the purpose of his telephone call was to advise us of his plans to go to Paris and attempt to contact the French Intelligence Service to which he would offer his services. He wished to find out if we would have any objections to his seeking employment from the French or possibly the British since we are apparently unable to utilize him further. C.O. said that obviously WIROGUE would do what he would do and that while we had no control over his actions it would seem a bit surprising that he would deliberately place himself in the hands of the French authorities where he was known to have a criminal record. WIROGUE implied that he would obviously tell all to the French and indicated that he was not concerned about any actions that they would take against him. He appeared sure in an extremely vague and confused way that the French Intelligence Service could use him.

---

14-000,00

In the course of the lengthy discussions WIROGUE let it be known that he was not very happy about the treatment he had received from the Americans--that he felt he had been dropped, and it appeared obvious to C.O. that if we had no further work for him he was threatening to tell his story to the French authorities--a story which he presumably feels we would not like the French to know about. It should be stressed that at no time was the "blackmail threat" bluntly presented. It was merely that he wished to advise us of his plan to leave for Paris this date with this intention in mind and that he wished to determine if we had any "objections".

C.O. reviewed with WIROGUE the considerable efforts which had been made to assist him in establishing a new life here in the FEDREP- a new life story, legal documentation, the opportunity to look for employment for a period of more than a year while receiving subsistence from us, etc. C.O. told Subject that he obviously had a good mind and was in good health and that--if he was unable to find some type of employment in the thriving West German economy that appealed to him and satisfied him--he would probably be unhappy wherever he goes. C.O. discounted Subject's beliefs that "intelligence work" was the only thing for which he was suited. C.O. expressed the view that he should get his head out of the clouds and his feet on the ground--that he should find a job, however menial, and throw himself into it. At this point WIROGUE said that at one time he had told Mr. Murmann of his desire to become a driver or chauffeur but that Mr. Murmann told him he could find much more suitable employment. With a certain amount of disbelief C.O. pursued this topic with him telling WIROGUE that-if he was really serious in believing that this kind of employment would be satisfying to him, that it was the first sensible thought he had expressed in the course of the discussions and that C.O. would determine whether it would be possible to assist Subject in obtaining a West German driver's license (Subject indicated that he had a Congo drivers license when he arrived in Frankfurt although it was issued in another name). While Subject pretended to have a genuine interest in obtaining such employment-- and used this to refute C.O.'s accusation that he only wanted to start at the top and considered most kinds of honest employment as being beneath him--C.O. is highly skeptical of Subject's motives.

WIROGUE was told to call Maka Mac (this is the only name which C.O gave to WIROGUE) on the following day (Thursday, 1 October) and C.O. would let him know whether he could help him obtain a West German license. WIROGUE was quick to point out that

---

14-00000

REPORT ON CONTACT WITH AGENT OR DEFECTOR

SUBJECT: WIROGUE

DATE: 21 April 1964

TIME: 1130 hours

PLACE: Kaiserstr. and Taunus Anlage

Case Officer: ORME K. DARONNAT

COMMENTS:

C.O. met Subject who had invited him to meet for lunch. They had a drink together and then went to a Chinese restaurant.

At first C. O. was afraid that Subject was getting ready to ask a favor or present a problem but it turned out that he merely wanted to visit with C.O. whom he considers to be his only friend, at least in Frankfurt. He said that his work with the Munich firm is going very well and is coming along fine. He received his first month's salary and expects to go to Munich on the first part of May for consultations and would then, around 30 May, move to Munich permanently. C. O. told Subject that he would be leaving for the U.S. probably the first week in June and Subject asked if they could have dinner together at least one more time before he left.

Subject said he had signed the contract, details of which he had previously given C.O., but was sorry that he had not brought the contract with him and promised to show it to C.O. the next time they met. Subject thanked C. O. for all the help he had given him to enable him to make a new start and wanted the lunch to be a small token of his appreciation. He also paid C.O. 20 DM which had been loaned him a year and a half earlier and gave C.O. a small French cigarette lighter as a rememberance. C. O. dropped Subject off downtown and suggested they have lunch, perhaps the first or second week in May.

SECRET

---

14-00000

REPORT ON CONTACT WITH AGENT OR DEFECTOR

SUBJECT: WIROGUE

DATE: 18 March 1964

TIME: 12 o'clock

PLACE: Schultheis Restaurant

Case Officer: ORME K. DARONNAT

COMMENTS:

C. O met Subject in response to a telephone call in which Subject invited C. O. to lunch to help him celebrate a new stroke of fortune. WIROGUE told C. O. that the director of the firm in Munich (reported in previous contact reports) and his European sales representative had met with Subject and discussed the possibility of his association with the Munich firm. Subject said the following had been agreed on:

*   Subject would receive 1500 DM a month salary,
*   free living quarters in Munich, the cost of maintaining his apartment in Frankfurt,
*   expense account,
*   percentage of the profits realized from any of Subject's inventions patented by the firm,
*   a work shop in Munich plus absolute personal freedom of movement regarding working hours, etc.

C. O. told him that the above was very hard to believe, that he should have this in writing. Subject said that it was to be drawn-up and sent to him for his signature.

C. O., of course, expressed his delight with Subject's perspicacity and perspicuity and but not boundless gall. C. O. asked if this would mean he would be moving to the Munich area. Subject said that this was doubtful unless he could find a mechanic in the Munich area who would work as cheaply as Nagely with whom he is now associated. He intends to spend most of his time in Munich, however, and will come to Frankfurt once a month to oversee Nagely's work on the production models of his projects. Subject intends to do the research and development work in Munich with Nagely in Frankfurt making the finished model.

---

C.O told Subject that he should not forget he would be required to obtain a Zweiter Wohnsitz. Subject said that he would look into this as soon as the work shop in Munich was completed and ready for him.

Subject stated that C.O. was his only friend and that he would like to call him whenever he has time. C.O told him he would be delighted to meet him congratulating him once again on his good fortune and promising to see him soon and have lunch with him.

NOTE C.O. is aware that Subject is basically a lonely and dissatisfied individual and does not enjoy his company. He is also aware that Subject is cultivating C.O. by keeping in frequent touch because he feels he needs a contact with the American Society to which he really does not belong and to identify himself more with things American.

---

14-00000

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: WIROGUE

DATE: 11 March 1964

On 25 February 1964 the undersigned met with Clarence Schmidt and Art Stimpson of CCA Bonn to apprise them of the status of the WIROGUE case. Since Clarence S. was preparing to depart PCS, C.O.'s discussion was primarily with Art S., Clarence's replacement.

C. O. briefed Art on WIROGUE's background prior to recruitment and his activities while associated with KUBARK. C. O reviewed HARVARD's attempt to prepare Subject for resettlement and said that we are now in a position to quit claim him and close the case and that we wanted to bring OCA up-to-date on the status of Subject's case and to find out if there are any loose ends from Bonn's point of view or HARVARD'S which should be tightened up prior to cutting Subject loose.

C. O. explained that since December 12, 1962 when OCA received a query from the BFV regarding Subject, HARVARD had been trying to reach the point where Subject could be on his own. C. O. explained that we had realized that after the original political recognition interview fiasco had brought Subject to the attention of the BFV, that to enable Subject to emigrate from Germany or to stay here without continuing problems in the future would require preparing a complete life history for Subject with a new political recognition interview story. Both the Lebenslauf and a new interview story were prepared and copies of the old story were removed from the various files and replaced by the new. C. O. said that HARVARD had two questions for Bonn and that (1) at the time of the original BFV interest in Subject had OCA promised Subject to be resettled outside Germany? and (2) would OCA know if the BFV in Cologne had a copy of Subject's political recognition interview story?. Art brought out OCA's file on the case and said to answer the second question first it would appear from the detailed information contained in the BFV query that they were indeed in possession of a copy of Subject's original political recognition interview story. He went on to state that in reply to the first question OCA had promised Subject to reply to the BFV was that Subject was of continuing operational interest to AIS and that the BFV would be notified when that interest to AIS and that the BFV would be notified when that interest was no longer valid. Art said that John Wilms of the 513 MI Group at Camp King was reasonably certain that the BFV man in Zirndorf would look to Wilms to provide the BFV with the details of Subject's political recognition story to the BFV in Cologne since so many cases of the BFV are processed each month that only the peculiar case would be sent on from Zirndorf to Cologne. Art said that if the original outlines of a particular case had not gone to Cologne then it was reasonably certain that a copy of the story would not have gone to Cologne. We all agreed that if Subject got into serious trouble in the future in the FEDREP that problems would arise. In any event we could only wait.

Art and Art and A1 agreed that since a very detailed Summary had gone to OCA appreciated being brought up-to-date on the case and provided HARVARD C. O. with copies of the BFV 's original query and OCA's reply. C. O. in turn provided OCA with copies of Subject's original and of his latest political recognition interview story and a copy of the Lebenslauf.

ORME K DARONNAT

---

14-00000

REPORT ON CONTACT WITH AGENT OR DEFECTOR

SUBJECT: WIROGUE

DATE: 10 March 1964

TIME: 1500 hours

PLACE: Oderweg & Glauburgstr.

Case Officer: ORME K DARONNAT

COMMENTS:

C. o. met Subject as a result of a telephone call requesting C. O.'s assistance. Subject told C. O. that he had gone to the local police revier and had tried to register but that since he had neglected to take along a filled-out Anmeldebestätigung signed by the landlord he had been told to go get the form, fill it out properly and then return. The police had looked at his deregistration slip with the 2 March date indicated and had told him to waste no time since an individual is required to deregister and re-register within a period of 8 days and it was now the 10th of March. Subject said that since his rental contract dates from January 1 and that date is indicated on the registration slip, the police will question why he waited so long to register. C. O. told him that the answer was simple and that he wished Subject would not bother him with such small problems. C. O. told Subject to get an Anmelda form and fill it out and have his landlord sign that he moved into the apartment on 1 March and explain to the landlords that he had been deregistered as of 2 March. Subject said that he had already figured this out but that he wanted an excuse to meet C. O. and talk to him.

He showed C. O. a Munich Konto check for 4,000 DM which he had received for developing a device reported in previous contact reports and went on to say that his business trip to Munich had been reasonably successful. He had discussed the development of several new devices with the director of the Munich firm and was now in the process of working on another device for the firm. He had made arrangements whereby he would receive no salary for the new device but that the firm would use its sales force to market another invention of his for him.

The firm had also asked Subject if he would be willing to come to Munich to live and work. Subject has agreed if the offer turns out to be worth his while. C. O. congratulated Subject and told him to continue the good work.

---

REPORT ON CONTACT WITH AGENT OR DEFECTOR

SUBJECT: WIROGUE

DATE: 3 March 1964

TIME: 1130 hours

PLACE: Kuhwaldstr.

Case Officer: ORME K DARONNAT

COMMENTS:

C. O met Subject and gave him his new Reiseausweis expiring in 1966 and pointed out there was a restriction against going into business for himself. He was given his Lohnsteurkarten for '62 '63 and '64 plus his Abmeldebestatigung indicating his deregistration from 145 Hohemarkstr to 51 Kuhwaldstr on 2 March 1964 He was told to go to the local Police Review and register.

Subject was given a copy of his new political recognition interview story and was asked if he had any questions regarding his legend. Subject replied that the story was so long he could not possibly memorize it completely. C. O. told him that the intent was to provide in detail any and all facts which in the future might be of importance to him in the conduct of his affairs.

Subject was asked about his plans for the future. His answer was that the Director of the firm (reported in contact report 17 February 1964) had invited him to come to Munich on 3 March 1964 to discuss, among other things, the possibility of employing Subject in the engineering department. This plus the fact that Subject has signed an agreement with BOHLER & CO. OPTICAL FF/M to act as an engineering consultant might enable him realize his ambition, i.e. to have a position rather than an ordinary job.

C. O. quitclaimed Subject and wished him luck.

Subject asked that C. O. be sure to let the higher echelon know he appreciates all that has been done for him.

Subject said that although official contact is at an end he hoped that C. O. would not reject an invitation for a friendly get together from time to time. C. O. replied that if business matters permitted he would be glad to meet Subject.

Subject jovially announced that they would probably meet some day in the U.S. C. O. reminded him that any action on his part which would involve the taking of fingerprints could have dire consequence for him. C. went on to report what he had told Subject months earlier and that is:

---

14-00000

Any attempt to immigrate to the U.S. would bring him to the attention of INTERPOL On the other hand, he could immigrate to South America but it would be imperative that he first learn Russian if he is to pass himself off as a recent refugee from the Soviet Union. C. O. said he could see no reason to prevent Subject from visiting any country or even entering as a technical representative. C. O. told him that he is soundly, if not perfectly, documented and that we can do no better and that he should never forget that his fingerprints are the weakest links.

C. O. said good-by and parted company Case closed.

NOTE: Normally HARVARD would provide a statement on one of our cover unit stationary letterheads covering the period of time Subject custody, and indicating that he was more or less professionally associated with the U.S. Army. Chief HARVARD and C. O felt that unless Subject requests such a letter it would be adviseable not to expose him to any more of our M.O. We can be sure that if Subject needs such a letter he will contact HARVARD.

*this of course is not true but does enable as to exercise some control.

---

S-E-C-R-E-T

PEFORT ON CONTACT WITH AGENT OR DEFECTOR

SUBJECT: WIROGUE

DATE: 28 February 1964

TIME: 1130 hours:

PLACE: Kuhwaldstr. 51

Case Officer: ORME K. DARONNAT

COMMENTS:

Co dropped in to see Subject and paid him DM 800 final subsistence for March. C. o. emphasized that this would be the last time Subject would receive any money and that he must now arrange for a new source of income.

Subject laughed and said he had the impression C. O. was anxious to get rid of him and also seemed to have doubts as to his ability to take care of his financial problems.

C. O. laughed in turn and said he would indeed be glad to see Subject on his own and added that he had no doubts re: Subject's ability to get money but that he is only hoping Subject would use methods acceptable to society (chuckle).

Since Subject had both English and German versions of his legend, C. O. took the English copy with the explanation that if Subject should submit a Lebenslauf, in connection with a job application, the German version would be more appropriate.

C. O. took Subject to lunch and dropped him off in the city after promising to see him on the 2nd of March.

C.O. jacked up Subject's Reiseausweis and told him it would be returned to the authorities and a new one would be issues. This would eliminate the need for a renewal until 1966.

Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

---

14-00000

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: WIROGUE

DATE: 24 February 1964

and Sam Markowitz met with John Wilms, Special Liaison Advisor to the 513th MI Group at Camp King, to discuss certain problems connected with the WIROGUE case. Co. told John that we are going to attempt to make a clean break with Subject this coming Friday but there were a few loose ends which had to be cleared up before we could take this final step.

CO said that in reviewing the new political recognition interview story, we had noted that the new story did not incorporate the name change of Subject's father from Simon Sanders to Frank Simon Sanders. C. O. asked if the new copy would have to be changed or replaced. John made a note of what the change of name should really be and told C. o. to have all the new copies changed to read Frank Simon Sanders. John said that this sort of thing happens from time to time, that it is just a simple error and will raise no eyebrows.

2.  C. O. then brought up the point that Subject's Reiseausweis will expire in October 1964 and we and Subject were wondering if Subject would run into any problem when he went to the Polizei Presidum to get a Reiseausweis renewal. John said that there would be no problems that he could see: but to make sure that there is no slip-up, we should pick up Subject's current Reiseausweis and if Sam prepares the necessary Antrag, John will get us a new Reiseausweis within one or two days, dated with a current date. C. O. said he would pick up Subject's Reiseausweis give it to Sam this week and Sam will prepare the necessary for a new Reiseausweis, plus a 1964 Lohnsteurkarte and a deregistration slip. If this works out, our plans to meet with Subject will be accomplished this coming Friday.

CO. then brought up the BFV's interest in Subject in late 1962 and mentioned to John we had received a query from Bonn indicating the BFV's interest in Subject, and contained what looked like excerpts from Subject's political recognition

---

14-00000

SECRET

interview story. C. O. went on to say that we were wondering if a copy of the story might have gone to the BFV in Bonn, and that Wilms had missed one of the old copies when he recalled all copies recently and replaced them with the new story. John said that Camp Zirndorf processes 50 to 100 cases a month, one half of which are interest in one way or another to the BFV. He said that what had gone to Bonn was very likely an excerpt, that the entire story would not have been sent to Bonn. John went on to say that with the new copy in the file, if this excerpt should come to light in the future, a check would merely indicate that someone had made a mistake and the matter would be dropped. John added that he knows we are concerned about this case, but that he sees no reason why there should be any trouble of any kind. He said that the only problem will be if Subject himself comes to the attention of the authorities because of some shinanigans on his part.

Orme K. Darannat

---

14-00000

REPORT ON CONTACT WITH AGENT OR DEFECTOR

SUBJECT: WIROGUE

DATE: 17 February 1964

TIME: 1345 hours

PLACE: 51 Kuhwaldstr.

Case Officer: ORME K DARONNAT

COMMENTS:

C. O met Subject in what is now his apartment and which has been completely painted and wallpapered. C. O gave Subject a copy of his Lebenslauf in German and a copy in English. He was told to read the story thoroughly and then to call C. O. later in the week when he was ready to discuss any points in the story not clear to him or to resolve any questions which he might have. C. O. said he would bring a Soviet realities expert with him who could answer any questions he might have. Subject gave C. O. his copy of the old political recognition interview story plus receipts which indicated he had paid 300 DM "Caution" and a rent receipt for 300 DM for the month of February. He also showed C. O. his rental contract for the 6 month period starting February 1, 1964. Subject gave C. O. a bill for 410 DM, cost of repairing his lower plate. C. O. gave Subject the money and told him to pay the bill and get the receipt stamped paid and return it to C. O. Subject was told that C. O. would pay him for the month of March, deregister him probably the latter part of the week, and give him the deregistration slip. He was also told C. O. would deliver his new political recognition interview story to him probably this week. Subject was not too pleased to hear that he would be deregistered because his Reiseausweis expires in October 1964 and Subject feels that it might not be renewed unless he is under the protection of the U.S. Army. C. o. said he feels there is no reason to worry unless Subject is not working and, thereby proving that he is not an industrious law-abiding citizen. Subject said that he has been trying to sell his inventions and told C. O. the following story:

Subject, in his wanderings about the city, had by accident met the Frankfurt representative of a Munich firm which manufactures a device called the "Starlettograph" which is used in the printing industry. Subject told the sales representative how his product could be improved and, as a

---

14-00000

result of their discussions, WIROGUE met the director of the firm. The director became interested in an advertising device which Subject has developed and asked him to prepare a good working model in time for the Hanover Fair in April. The director also asked Subject, if the company supplied him with one of their devices, would he be able to incorporate his ideas for improving the machine in time for the Hanover Fair. Subject claims that he told the director he would modify the machine by the end of March and if the device works properly he would expect payment of 20,000 DM. According to Subject, before the director returned to Munich he promised to send a device to Frankfurt immediately upon arrival. The name and address of the firm is:

Film-Klischee GMBH

Munchen 22

Thierschstrasse 15

---

14-00000

REPORT ON CONTACT WITH AGENT OR DEFECTOR

SUBJECT: WIROGUE

DATE: 30 January 1964

TIME: 1000 hours

PLACE: AMCONGEN

Case Officer: ORME K. DARONNAT

COMMENTS:

C. O. and Subject met at the American Consulate since Subject's apartment (DRC's former safe apartment) is being painted. Subject told C. O. he had been staying at the Balmoral Hotel and would move back into the apartment on Friday evening, 31 January 1964. C. O. and Subject went to the apartment which is indeed being painted and repapered.

C. O. paid Subject DM 1,000, DM 800 of which is for subsistence and rent for February and the remaining DM 200 to be applied to the one month's rent in advance required by the landlord.

C. O. told Subject that all copies but one of his original political recognition interview story had been recalled and the German language version of his Lebenslauf was now being used to provide the basis for a new story. C. O. told Subject that as soon as the new story was prepared, copies placed in the various files and the one remaining copy of the old story removed from its file, Subject would be, for all practical purposes, his own boss.

C. O. told him that we have decided to help him get a new start by (1) paying the cost of having his denture repaired, (2) by paying DM 200 on the DM 300 one month's rent in advance Subject must pay, (3) by providing DM 800 per month for subsistence and housing until he can be legally on his own, (4) by giving him at least one month's notice prior to termination and (5) by making him a present of all the household items now in the apartment including the iron, the vacuum cleaner, and the radio. Subject's rather perfunctory thank you was somewhat less than what C. O. had expected and when C. O. expressed surprise at Subject's lack of enthusiasm, Subject stated that he was most appreciative but was not very demonstrative.

---

14-00000

Subject said he had returned to Doctor Filner who said he could not work on Subject's dentures until approval was granted Subject asked if we knew Doctor Feilner's estimate had been DM 750 C 0. said we knew and that he should go to the dentist who had given him the DM 400 estimate.

C. O. told Subject to obtain receipts for the one month's rental payment and for the February rental payment. He was also to call C. O. the week of February 2nd to arrange a meeting so that C. O can pick up the receipts and Subject's copy of his old political recognition interview story

---

14-00000

MEMO ROUTING SLIP

1 NAME OR TITLE: Chief DRC

ORGANIZATION AND LOCATION:

APPROVALS DISAPPROVALS

FILE

INFORMATION

ACTION

NOTE AND RETURN

SEE ME

SIGNATURE: I am in agreement with DARONNAT's attached suggestion. I feel we will be getting off cheap in paying:

A. For the dental work.

B. Household furnishings per attached list

C. 1-2 months subsistence

Do you concur? Concur

FROM: Chief, Resettlement

ORGANIZATION AND LOCATION:

DATE: 27 Jan 64

TELEPHONE:

FORM: Nelson DA AUU Form 12, 1 Are o and AFBQ 19512, 10 Nov 17, "bon may be 40 AGL (1) 18-58-838-87318

---

14-00000

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, HARVARD

FROM: ORME K. DARONNAT

SUBJECT: WIROGUE

DATE: 27 January 1964

Don't suggest that we reduce the quantity of some of the items listed on the attached and make WIROGUE a present of the remainder as part of his resettlement.

I have been emphasizing to Subject over the past weeks that President Johnson's economy drive has affected all agencies and departments. Subject, therefore, has been conditioned not to expect money for BKZ or for furniture or a termination sum. Any or all of these would normally be provided in a case of this kind.

I feel that if we pay to have his lower denture repaired, approximate cost DM 400, make Subject a present of the household items listed, and continue to pay him subsistence for a month or two after we notify him he is on his own, we will, I believe, get rid of him as cheaply as possible and without serious complaints.

---

14-00000

REPORT ON CONTACT WITH AGENT OR DEFECTOR

SUBJECT: WIROGUE

DATE: 21 January 1964

TIME: 1200 hours

PLACE: 51 Kuhwaldstr.

Case Officer: ORME K. DARONNAT

COMMENTS:

C. O met Subject and paid him subsistence for the week ending 31 January 1964. He was told that we have received permission to increase his subsistence from DM 600 to DM 800 until his final resettlement. The extra DM 200 is to be applied to his rent. C. O said that Subject would be paid DM 1000 on 31 January DM 200 to be applied to one month's rent in advance, and the DM 800 to be rent (DM 200) and subsistence (DM600) for February.

C. O. said we were disappointed that he had decided to stay in his present apartment and take over the DM 300 rent. We had hoped he would be sensible enough to use this opportunity to save a little money. Subject's answer was that he feels that he should be able to afford the rent when he is turned loose and that if he can't afford that much rent he might as well be dead. Subject said he could not understand why C. O. was harping on the subject, that all he was asking for was one month's advance notice prior to being turned loose on his own. C. O. said he was willing to drop the matter as long as Subject did not come crying the blues to us later about needing money. Subject said that if things got really bad he would get a job. C. O. applauded and offered his congratulations but said he assumed this would only be a desperation measure. Subject did not like the joke.

WIROGUE proudly announced that he has made intensive efforts the last few weeks to sell 4 of his inventions. C. O., somewhat exasperated, told him he would never understand how such an obviously clever man could, for so many years, refuse to face up to his responsibilities to himself and society and live in a dream world of get rich quick schemes. Subject put on what is now a familiar act in which he acts terribly hurt because C. O. (his one true friend) does not have faith in him. C. O. told Subject that he is a great actor and added that he (C. O.) would think much more highly of him if he would think

---

about going to work like any normal person and fiddle with his inventions at night. C. O. reminded him that if he had not been able to come up