Okay, I have reviewed both the Tesseract and Google Vision OCR texts and have produced a combined and cleaned version below.

14-00000

(104-10187-10030)

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FILE TITLE: KUBADGER

Vol VI

Operations

INCLUSIVE DATES: 3 Jan 1962 — 19 Dec 1963

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: LA/DDO

ROOM: 3034

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

6/21/78 | 6/26/78 | D. HARDWAY | D. Hardway

6/27/78 | 7/26/78 | D. HARDWAY | D Hardway

7/27/78 | 11/20/78 | DAN HARDWAY | Hardway

11/20/78 | END DATE | DAN HARDWAY | Hardway

FORM 53a

15 MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.

KUBADGER 50-6-75/3

OPERATIONS

LIENVOY OPERATIONS

JANUARY 1962 - DECEMBER 1963 VOL

50-6-75/3

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

NOTICE

THIS FILE HAS BEEN PROCESSED AND RETIRED. DO NOT ADD ANY DOCUMENTS TO THIS FOLDER. FORWARD CS DOCUMENTS THAT SHOULD BE INCLUDED IN THIS FOLDER TO IP/RPU GE-58.

NOTICE

CONFIDENTIAL

14-00000

CLASSIFICATION

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

Chief of Station, Mexico City

FROM

Chief, SR Division

SUBJECT

LCIMPROVE/LIENVOY Terro de WANSTRAM or WANSTROHM (phonetic)

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

1. Forwarded under separate cover as Attachment A are two LIENVOY transcripts of 12 November 1963 and two LIENVOY transcripts of 13 November 1963 which Headquarters may consider for transmittal to Station Stockholm.

2. Forwarded under separate cover as Attachment B is a photograph of an unidentified male (who was accompanied by an unidentified female whose photograph the Station asset did not obtain) who visited the Soviet Embassy at 1400 hours on 12 November 1963. The Station believes this male is identical with Subject since the male in the photograph is the only unidentified male who was also accompanied by a woman and, secondly, this male appears to be a nordic type. The Station recognizes, however, that Subject may have only claimed to be a Swede for cover purposes.

3. The following is the comment made by Douglas J. FEINGLASS, the Station's LIENVOY translator, concerning Attachment A:

"The exact spelling of this name could not be determined. He started by saying that it is W - A - N - S - T - R - O - and then stopped, emphasizing the two dots above A. It is very strange that he, being a Swede did not seek the aid of his Swedish Consulate, but applied to the Soviet Embassy and asked for a man, whom he met by chance (?) in a restaurant. But stranger still is the response of the Embassy officials, who went out of their way to find a chip for him. Usually requests of this nature are brushed aside and quite often in a very rude manner. Judging from his non-British accent and almost flawless English, he must have lived in the United States or Canada for quite some time." (The Station REDWOOD officer concurs with FEINGLASS' comment regarding the usual reluctance of Soviet Embassy officials to help in a matter of this type.)

4. Station Mexico has no record of any member of the Soviet Embassy traveling to Oaxaca during this period.

5. Station Mexico has no traces on Subject.

W w/att A & B (u/s/c)

1 - SR w/att A & B (u/c/c)

CROSS REFERENCE TO SK/CI/A

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMA-22530

DATE

19 December 1963

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

HQS FILE NUMBER

50-6-75/3

14-00000

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

Chief, WH Division

FROM

Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT

LIENVOY-8

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

Reference:

A. HMMW-12027 dated 23 Oct 1963

B. HMMA-21331 dated 10 May 1963

C. HMMA-20408 dated 19 December 1962

1. Station Mexico regrets the confusion over the status of LIENVOY-8. He was terminated 29 February 1960. An Agent Service Record is attached.

2. The cryptonym LIENVOY-8 in HMMA-20408 dated 19 December 1962 should have been LIENVOY-6. Headquarters noted that LIENVOY-6 had been omitted and called this to the attention of the Station in HMMW-11457 dated 6 April 1963. It was not noticed at that time that LIENVOY-3 had been included in error in the project renewal request instead of LIENVOY-6.

Enclosure:

Agent Service Record

Distribution:

3 - WH, w/encl

Willard C. Curtis

DATE

7 November 1963

HQS FILE NUMBER

201-118406

14-00000

SECRET

LIENVOY PRODUCTION - NOVEMBER 1963

MEXIS | HMMS | HMMAS

MEXI 7137 | HMM 8054 | HMMA-22515

MEXI 7133 | HMM 8046 | HMMA-22472

MEXI 7127 | HMM 8041 | HMMA-22452

MEXI 7119 | HMM 8039 | HMMA-22449

MEXI 7106 (HMM 8079) | HMM 8030 | HMMA-22422

MEXI 7068 | HMM 8026

MEXI 7065 | HMM 8019

MEXI 7033 | HMM 8018

MEXI 7028 | HMM 8004

MEXI 7010 (HMM 8067) | HMM 8002

MEXI 7000 (HMM 8057)

MEXI 6975

MEXI 6972

MEXI 6955 (HMM 8047)

MEXI 6937 (HMM 8045)

MEXI 6348 (HMM 8008)

MEXI 6840 (HMM 8001)

MEXI 6838 (HMM 8000)

MEXI 6830 (HMM 7994)

MEXI 6813 (HMM 7990)

MEXI 6810

MEXI 6805

MEXI 6790

MEXI 6757 (HMM 7973)

24

SECRET

14-00000

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT

Monthly Operational Report for Project LIENVOY

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

Action: None. For Headquarters information.

Reference: HMMA-22135, 13 September 1963.

1. There follows the monthly operational report for Project LIENVOY activities during September 1963.

2. Target Lines - September 1963.

The following lines were covered during the month of September:

20-30-18 General Lazaro Cardenas del Rio

20-83-46 General Lazaro Cardenas del Rio

24-18-18 Braulio Maldonado Sandez

43-01-85 Melquiades Maldonado Sandez

23-85-25 Alonso Aguilar Monteverde

24-61-75 Jorge L. Tamayo Castellejos

45-59-52 David Alfaro Siqueiros

13-21-14 Francisco Galindo Ochoa

43-15-06 Enrique Gonzalez Pedrero

11-16-48 Ignacio Acosta Lagunez

19-15-06 Roberto Romero Adams

(continued)

Enclosure:

Production Report

Removed from Project KOBADGER

CS Classification: 50-6-75/3

JOB # 73-175/74

Box: 29 Fold: 6

Distribution:

- WH, w/encl

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMA-22267

DATE

8 October 1963

HCS FILE NUMBER

50-6-75/3

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRET

HMMA-22267

10-29-69 - Movimiento de Liberacion Nacional

46-12-70 - C.T.A.L.

46-11-30 - D.F.S.

46-09-50 - D.F.S. (disconnected 18 September 1963)

35-36-52 - Politica (Revista - Manuel Marcue Pardinas)

46-60-15 - Prensa Latina

46-60-16 - Prensa Latina

14-42-37 - Cuban Embassy

14-92-14 - Cuban Embassy (disconnected 23 September 1963)

25-07-95 - Cuban Embassy (apartment of Ramon Sinobas - disconnected on 23 September 1963 when apartment became vacant)

14-13-26 - Cuban Embassy

15-60-55 - Soviet Embassy (Chancery)

15-61-55 - Soviet Embassy (Chancery)

15-69-87 - Soviet Embassy (Military Attache)

15-61-07 - Soviet Embassy (Commercial Office)

15-12-64 - Soviet Embassy (Film Representative)

45-61-80 - Czech Embassy

45-61-81 - Czech Embassy

20-38-98 - Yugoslav Embassy (connected 18 September 1963)

20-68-69 - Yugoslav Embassy (connected 23 September 1963)

20-68-23 - Yugoslav Embassy (connected 23 September 1963)

Headquarters will note from the above that three lines were disconnected in order to cover three Yugoslav lines. Two of the lines which were disconnected were Cuban Embassy lines, both were not in use by the Cubans. One was in the apartment which had been vacated by Ramon Sinobas and not occupied by other Cubans. The other was a telephone in the Cuban Embassy which was never answered. The Cubans are trying to get Sinobas' line moved to the Embassy. They have also asked for the telephone company to repair 14-92-14. As soon as these lines are working again, coverage of two of the Yugoslav Embassy lines will be dropped in order to pick up all the Cuban lines which are presumed to have a much higher priority.

3. Processing of LIENVOY Information

The Station continues to receive full transcripts in Spanish on the Cuban lines (three), the Soviet Embassy lines (five), and as of 18 and 25 September the Yugoslav lines (three). These transcripts are received each morning for the day before. During September, the LIENVOY monitors transcribed 1396 pages in addition to the daily resumen.

The outside translators now working on LIENVOY transcripts are:

Orville HORSFALL, staff agent, who is used for almost any backlog which begins to occur.

David B. SCHLAGETER, field contract agent, who transcribes the Czech take.

Victor W. OBOLD, career agent, who transcribes the Yugoslav portion of the Yugoslav take.

Douglas J. FEINGLASS, staff agent, who continues to transcribe the Russian language portion of the Soviet take.

4. Exploitation of LIENVOY Information

Two leads from LIENVOY of operational interest in September 1963 were:

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRET

HMMA-22267

a. On 6 September 1963 a Russian speaking female contacted the Soviet Embassy and asked for Svyatoslav Fedorovich KUZNETSOV, KGB. She identified herself by name and as a professor from New Orleans. She gave the address of her apartment and asked for a meeting. This lead was promptly followed up by station investigative assets who identified the woman and learned that she was attending a philosophers' conference at the University of Mexico. She returned to the United States on 17 September. All available information was forwarded to Headquarters for passing to ODENVY.

b. MEXI-6135 reported the contact between an unidentified Czech woman and the Czech Embassy.

5. Liaison

On 18 September 1963 Oliver G. GALBOND and Willard C. CURTIS met with LIELEGANT and LIERGO. They also saw LIELEGANT on 20 September.

6. Security

There were no security problems during this month.

7. Technical

There were no technical problems which AREHART could not handle.

8. Personnel

Robert B. RIGGS continues to meet Arnold AREHART each morning before 0800 hours to receive all LIENVOY tapes and transcripts from the previous day. The daily meetings with Victor W. OBOLD and David B. SCHLAGETER, the two EE translators, were transferred on 18 September 1963 from the Station EE case officer to the KURIOT technician, Gregory D. PARMUTH who delivers and receives reels and transcripts from them each day. PARMUTH also acts as a cutout for Douglas J. FEINGLASS.

Paul V. LEVISTER, Headquarters KUTUBE officer, visited the Station from 22 September to 1 October to consult with LIENVOY and LIFEAT case officers in preparation for a report to be written on the two projects as examples of tap operations which produce both positive intelligence and operational leads.

9. Production

There is attached a list of reports, cables and dispatches forwarded to Headquarters during this month.

Willard C. Curtis

Enclosures:

Agent Service Record

Distribution:

3 - WH, w/encl

14-00000

SECRET

LIENVOY PRODUCTION - SEPTEMBER 1963

MEXIS | HMMS | HMMAS

MEXI 6333 (HMM 7812) | HMMA 22194 | EMM 7795

MEXI 6332 (HMM 7510) | HMMA 22193 | HMM 7783

MEXI 6519 (HMM 7804) | HMMA 22159 | HMM 7770

MEXI 6302 (HMM 7801) | HMMA 22149 | EMM 7767

MEXI 6271 (HMM 7757) | HMMA 22135 | EMM 7742

MEXI 6215 (HMM 7761) | HMMA 22116 | ENN 7725

MEXI 6205 (HMM 7760) | HMMA 22115 | EMM 7724

MEXI 6135 | HMMA 22060 | EMM 7723

MEXI 6133 (HMM 7743) | HMMA 22052

MEXI 6129 (HMM 7741)

MEXI 6107

MEXI 610 (HMM 7736)

MEXI 6097 (HMM 7728)

MEXI 6042 (HMM 7711)

MEXI 6058 (HMM 7705)

MEXI 6054

MEXI 6030 (HMM 7706)

MEXI 6029 (HMM 7707)

14-00000

PERSONALITY BRIEF

1. General Lazaro CARDENAS del Rio

As a pro-Communist, anti-United States former (1934-1940) President of Mexico, CARDENAS plays an important role in the political activities of Mexico by virtue of his being the spiritual leader of a great part of the Mexican left. His leftist sympathies appear to fall primarily with the current regime in Cuba (He alledgedly is a close personal friend of Fidel CASTRO), secondarily with Communist China, and lastly with the USSR.

2. Braulio MALDONADO Sandez

MALDONADO is a politically unscrupulous pro-Communist former Governor of Baja California. He is a national leader of at least three Mexican leftist organizations: (1) FEP (People's Electoral Front), united single front of Mexican Communists and Leftists; (2) MLN (National Liberation Movement), rabidly anti-U.S., pro-Cuba Communist Front; and (3) CCI (Independent Peasants' Center), radical, anti-Mexican Government organization. Having been banished from Mexico until after the 1964 elections for anti-government activities, MALDONADO is currently in Europe and seeking admittance to the USSR, obstensibly to visit his daughter who is a student at the Friendship University in Moscow.

3. Alonso AGUILAR Monteverde

AGUILAR is a prominent pro-Communist Mexican intellectual who is the titular head of the MLN (National Liberation Movement), rabidly anti-U.S., pro-Communist front. He is a full-time professor at the National Autonomous University of Mexico and maintains active contact with several international leftist and Communist figures. He has recently travelled to Cuba and Warsaw.

4. Jorge Leonidas TAMAYO Castillejos

TAMAYO is a Communist professor at the National Autonomous University of Mexico. He is a leading member of many Communist front activities in Mexico including the CMP (Mexican Peace Committee), the MLN (National Liberation Movement), and the CEM (Circle of Mexican Studies). He has been in contact with several leftist figures of various echelon, including Gen. Lazaro CARDENAS, the Cuban Ambassador to Mexico, and Polish, Soviet, and Chinese Communist officials. TAMAYO's son has studied in Warsaw and travelled to the USSR and Communist China.

5. Jose David ALFARO Siqueiros

ALFARO, one of Mexico's most prominent artists, has been imprisoned for eight (8) years as a consequence of the role he played in the Communist-inspired railroad strike of 1959. He is a leader of the PCM (Mexican Communist Party) and has visited the Soviet Union. He fought for the Loyalist Army in the Spanish Civil War and was later arrested in Mexico for complicity in the murder of Leon TROTSKY's secretary. ALFARO has a long history of pro-Communist, anti-U.S. leanings.

6. Roberto ROMERO Adams

ROMERO is an informant for the Cuban Intelligence Service in Mexico.

7. Enrique GONZALEZ Pedrero

Pro-Communist professor at the National Autonomous University of Mexico, GONZALEZ Pedrero has contributed to the writing or editing of at least five (5) leftist publications in Mexico. He is a member of the National Committee of the MLN, has alledgedly received training in the Soviet Union, and has travelled to Cuba twice in recent times.

8. Ignacio ACOSTA Lagunes

Pro-Communist ACOSTA, a lawyer, is an aide of General CARDENAS and a leading member of the MLN. He frequently has contact with high-level personnel of both the Cuban and Soviet Embassies in Mexico City. His political activities include travel to Cuba and the Soviet Union, aid in the management of the Communist Trade Fair in Mexico, and a great deal of participation in promoting sympathy for the Cuban Revolution in Mexico.

14-00000

9. Direccion Federal de Seguridad - Federal Security Police

The principal functions of this security unit are to: (1) Provide a plain-clothed security detail for the President, (2) maintain an extensive telephone tap activity on both the Rightist and Leftist political opposition forces, and (3) perform investigations and arrests of primarily political offenses. The unit's agents are largely poorly trained, insecure, and unreliable. Their professional characteristics are best described as being dishonest, cruel, and abusive. The position, at this moment, of Manuel RANGEL Escamilla as Director General of DFS is precarious.

10. Politica

A Marxist anti-U.S. semi-monthly magazine published in Mexico, Politica is printed by Talleres Graficos de Mexico, the same shop which prints La Voz de Mexico. In addition to the modest revenues derived from a circulation of 15,000 to 25,000, Politica is financed by the Soviet Embassy, the MLN, the PPS, and possibly, the Cuban Embassy. As an indication of the Mexican government's assessment of the capability of this magazine to influence public opinion, it is worthwhile noting that Politica frequently experiences a great degree of difficulty in printing and circulating itself due to the government's repressive efforts.

11. Movimiento de Liberacion Nacional (MLN)

Organized under the influence of the PCM in August 1961, the MLN today is dedicated to the furtherance of the mutual interests of its adherents who are found primarily in the ranks of the PRI, the PPS, the PCM, the CNC and the UGOCM. The MLN's objective is to gain leftist political representation in the government by inciting PRI to accept leftists into its camp. As a consequence of this objective, the mission of MLN is to generate evidence of popular leftist sympathy by means of fomenting agitation among the popular, labor, and peasant masses.

12. Confederacion de Trabajadores de la America Latina (CTAL)

The CTAL has recently been replaced by the CUTAL (Single Confederation of Latin American Workers). Until recently, the pro-Communist, CTAL, which is described as being the liaison bureau of the WFTU (World Federation of Trade Unions) whose headquarters are in Prague, was headed by Vicente LOMBARDO Toledano.

13. Prensa Latina

Operating directly under the Cuban Communist regime, Prensa Latina is obstensibly a press service. In reality, however, it is the official propaganda organ of the Cuban Government. Prensa Latina works closely with Tass, the Soviet Agency; with Isinhua, the Chinese Agency; and with Cetepka, the Czechoslovakian Agency.

14-00000

Chief of Station, Mexico City

Chief of Station, Guatemala City

Chief, WH Division

Victor Manuel GUTIERREZ Garvia (201-68248)

Refs:

A. HMM-11038, 16 August 1963

B. HMMA-22262, 3 October 1963

1. Reference is made to your question about the type information needed on GUTIERREZ. Headquarters is interested in "current" information on his activities, and especially on his travels and his contact with Samuel VEGA Perez, Chief of G-2 at the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City. The comment in HMM-7289 regarded only the non-dissemination of the report, and was not intended to discourage the Station from reporting information on meetings between GUTIERREZ and VEGA.

2. Headquarters would appreciate receiving, on a continuing basis, pertinent information on GUTIERREZ extracted from the LIENVOY take.

END OF DISPATCH

Distribution:

2 - COS, Mexico City

1 - COS, Guatemala

24 October 1963

HMMA-12049

201-68249

14-00000

2 October 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Foreign Intelligence

SUBJECT: TDY to Mexico City

1. After taking a good look at LIENVOY and LIFEAT, I would agree with the persons I talked with in Mexico; they maintain that any well-run tap operation should produce substantial intelligence information, provided the targets are of intelligence interest, and provided also there are people at the station who look for it and are able to recognize it. The case of LIFEAT is interesting in this respect. It has been deprived of its most productive lines in favor of LIENVOY, and yet its intelligence production compares favorably, with that of the other productive taps, except LIENVOY.

2. Mexico has people who can detect any little item of intelligence significance. This includes the Chief of Station, who goes over the highlights of the previous day's take every morning and marks certain items for action by station case officers or reports officers. The reports officers work on copies of the take at the same time.

3. There are several aspects of LIENVOY that make it an excellent operation and an outstanding producer of intelligence. I will describe them in detail when my notes get here from the station. The principal factors in the success of LIENVOY seem to be the following.

a. The agreement made with top Mexican officials, unlike many such agreements elsewhere, is as much in effect today as it was at the start: the targeting is not based on personal politics; the intercept staff has stayed on the job; the equipment is considered to be on loan from CIA.

b. The native monitoring staff has reached a peak of effectiveness that everyone at the station praises very highly.

c. The station is organized to handle the take speedily as soon as it comes in. The Chief of Station, the case officers, the reports officers, all work on it at the same time and exchange views on hot items. They do not let reports backlogs accumulate.

14-00000

d. Each new item on a target person is linked to a past history; what appears as a fragmentary bit in a conversation becomes a meaningful development in a continuous story. Continuity on the job makes this possible.

e. The equipment is kept in good working order by complete cleaning and checking of each unit once a month. The 32 units in use today are those installed in 1959.

4. A detailed description of LIENVOY and its counterpart LIFEAT should provide good models with which to compare other tap operations. It should give criteria for good procedures. It should give some idea of the desirable size of such operations, considering the available targets, the size of the station, and the other tasks and operations of the station. It should show what the station puts into its tap operations and what it gets out of them. LIENVOY and LIFEAT are an interesting example of two interacting operations, one joint and the other independent.

5. My stay in Mexico was as interesting and fruitful as it was enjoyable. And I hope it was not too great a burden on the station.

cc: CAM/3

14-00000

ORIG: J.M. WHITTEN

UNIT: WH/3

EXT: 5613

DATE: 16 Sept 1963

TO: MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: C/WH 5

INFO: ADDP, C/CI, RF, VR

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

17 SEP 63 15 23Z

SIS CEN

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

CITE DIR 68906

RYBAT LIENVOY

IDEN IN BRILLARD MESSAGE TO CURTIS TRANSMITTED BY GALBOND IS MR. GERARD CAMPAGNA.

END OF MESSAGE

C/WHD

WH/COPS

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

RELEASING OFFICER

GROUP 1

Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

14-00000

TO Chief, WH Division

FROM Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT Monthly Operational Report for Project LIENVOY

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

Action: None. For Headquarters' information.

Ref: HMMA-22005, 23 August 1963

1. There follows the monthly operational report for Project LIENVOY activities during August 1963.

2. Target Lines - August 1963.

There were no changes in the target lines during this reporting period. The Yugoslav lines have not yet been connected but one of them should be operating by the end of September.

3. Processing of LIENVOY Information.

HMMA-22000 dated 21 August 1963 transmitted the first group of copies of transcripts against the Cuban lines. Since that time, carbon copies have been forwarded to Headquarters on a weekly basis.

Orville HORSFALL, staff agent, has eliminated the backlog of some fifty reels from the Russian lines and at the present time is working on the Polish LIFEAT coverage which Woodrow GABBOTT (ps) has not been able to handle. HORSFALL will be used in this capacity only until the Station has a higher priority job for him or until his permanent assignment is determined.

There has been no change in Douglas J. FEINGLASS' assignment since the last progress report.

4. Exploitation of LIENVOY Information.

The following are some (not all) of the exploitations during August 1963 of leads from LIENVOY:

a. LIENVOY contributed support to the REDWOOD AEJUMBO operation during this period by confirming several contacts between the principals involved. Details of this case have been reported by the Station SR Case Officer.

b. On 8 August LIENVOY reported indications that an unnamed DIZTAG diplomat stationed in Caracas planned to travel alone by plane to Mexico City via Panama carrying a diplomatic pouch for turnover in Mexico and return to Caracas with diplomatic mail received from DIZTAG couriers in Mexico. This was reported to Headquarters, Caracas, and Panama as a possible opportunity to obtain or copy these pouches. (MEXI-5681)

c. On 7 August this project revealed contact between the Partido Popular Socialista and the Soviet Embassy. Roberto JARAMILLO Flores, national leader of the Juventud Popular Socialista, the youth organization of the Marxist Partido Popular Socialista, arranged for an urgent meeting with Nikolaiy Sergeyevich LEONOV, Third Secretary and Cultural Officer of the Soviet Embassy. It will be recalled that LEONOV went to the Soviet Union and acted as interpreter for Fidel CASTRO on his visit there earlier this year. MEXI-5705 transmitted a report on JARAMILLO's contact with LEONOV.

d. On 5 August LIENVOY reported the presence in Mexico of one Doctor Paul BARAN who was in contact with Cuban Embassy officials and prominent Mexican Marxist intellectuals. BARAN appeared to be on a trip throughout South America. A check of Station files revealed that this was probably identical with Paul Alexander BARAN, Russian born naturalized U. S. citizen and professor of economics at Stanford University, Palo Alto, California. BARAN has visited Mexico in the past and made contact with American Communists and Mexican leftists. This information was sent to Headquarters in MEXI-5735 for dissemination to ODENVY.

e. On 12 August William ROSE, who identified himself as a student from the United States studying at the University of Mexico (UNAM) asked for an interview with Vicente LOMBARDO Toledano, Secretary General of the Popular Socialist Party (PPS). ROSE claimed to have letters of introduction to LOMBARDO from labor leaders in the United States. A check of Station files revealed William Maurice ROSE, 1474 Federal Way, Salt Lake City, Utah, as a student at the UNAM. This report was sent to Headquarters in MEXI-5752 for dissemination to ODENVY.

f. On 1 August Henry WALLSCHMIDT, 3662 Carrington Avenue, Los Angeles, California, contacted the Soviet Embassy and volunteered his services to them. The details of this contact were forwarded to Headquarters via HMMA-21905 for dissemination to ODENVY.

g. On 7 August a person who claimed to be a U.S. citizen with a name which sounded like ARNERO contacted the Soviet Embassy and referred to a previous visit at the Embassy when he discussed information on ship movements. He also asked for asylum and made an appointment to see Oleg NECHIPORENKO, Soviet Vice Consul and KGB officer. A person of American appearance was photographed by LIEMPTY at the time of the arranged appointment. A sanitized copy of this photograph together with information from LIENVOY was passed locally to ODENVY. MEXI-5784 forwarded the report to Headquarters.

h. On 9 August LIENVOY reported that an American pilot with wife and small son were at the Cuban Embassy trying to get a visa to go to Cuba. MEXI-5794 reported details for Headquarters. ODENVY was advised locally after receiving Headquarters' authorization.

i. LIENVOY covered the activities of Barry Terry PRIMUS, New York actor who was expelled from Mexico on 19 August for participating in Marxist-Communist public disturbances on 18 August. See MEXI-5854 and 5855 for further details.

j. On 20 August Moe FISHMAN, Secretary of Veterans of the Lincoln Brigade in the U.S. asked the wife of David Alfaro SIQUEIROS how the Brigade could help free SIQUEIROS. FISHMAN also made an appointment to meet with Margarita NELKEN, prominent Spanish Communist exile. MEXI-5864 transmitted this report to Headquarters for dissemination to ODENVY.

5. Liaison.

As reported in reference Willard C. CURTIS met with LITENSOR to arrange for a sensitive PBRUMEN case on 15 August 1963. The case is still pending.

6. Security

There were no security incidents within the project during this month.

7. Technical

There were no technical problems which AREHART could not handle.

8. Personnel

There have been no changes in personnel since the last report.

9. Production

There is attached a list of reports, cables and dispatches forwarded to Headquarters during this month.

Willard C. Curtis

Attachment:

As stated above.

Distribution:

C/WHD w/att

2 - Files

14-00000

SECRET

LIENVOY PRODUCTION - AUGUST 1963

MEXIS | HMMS | HMMAS

MEXI-5977 (HMM 7698) | HMM 7694 | HMMA 21964

MEXI-5976 (HMM 7697) | HMM 7690 | HMMA 21963

MEXI-5892 | HMM 7672 | HMMA 21958

MEXI-5864 | HMM 7665 | HMMA 21940

MEXI-5863 | HMM 7653 | HMMA 21956

MEXI-5856 | HMM 7650 | HMMA 21931

MEXI-5855 (HMM 7644) | HMM 7635 | HMMA 21910

MEXI-5854 | HMM 7640 | HMMA 21905

MEXI-5803 | HMM 7631 | HMMA 21900

MEXI-5794 | HMM 7627 | HMMA 21874

MEXI-5789 | HMM 7