104-10183-10022

RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

14-00000
FROM: ROME 9965 (101475)

AMWHIP 1
NEW YORK RE TRAVEL PLANS INDICATE PLANS TRIPS EUROPE, THREE FOUR TIMES ANNUALLY SPENDING CIRCA TWO WEEKS EACH TRIP IN ITALY.

PORTION HIS ROUTINE BUSINESS MATTERS CAN BE EXPECTED OCCUPY CONSIDERABLE ITALY. WHILE AMWHIP 1 CONSIDERED ASTUTE ASSET WITH GOOD PERUMEN TARGETS ITALY, IS DOUBTFUL CAN MEET STA NEEDS FOR ASSET WHO IS READILY AVAILABLE FOLLOW UP LEADS, CLOSE RAPPORT TARGET PERSONALITIES IN RESIDENCE OR IN TRANSIT MAKE PITCHES WHEN CHANCE ARISES. NECESSARILY LONG INTERVALS BETWEEN HIS STAYS ITALY WILL BREAK RHYTHM OF DEVELOPMENT AND MAKE HIM UNAVAILABLE TO ASSESS RECRUIT LEAD NATURES MATTER OF MERRS.

ALSO SINCE USES AMWHIP 1 OTHER OPERA NECESSARY GUARD AGAINST CONTAMINATING HIS CLEAN REPUTATION WITH PERURGH FCGDE THROUGH MENDABLE BUT OVERLY ZEALOUS EFFORTS HIS PART TO DO HOS.

FII, WHILE CONSIDERED SHREWD SOPHISTICATED, IS BASED STA IN TIS AVAILABLE.

CH OF CCL FREUDEN WEAKNESS OF BELIEVING HAND WILL EVER BE CAUGHT COOKIE JAR AND CAN ALWAYS RETRICATE SELF WITH PLAUSIBLE DENTAL.

REPECS

14-00000
FROM: DIRECTOR

DECISION PUNARTEGIA
MESSAGE REVIEW FERAL DECISION BR

IREN COP DIR
AMSHP 1, ANSHIP STORE. ANOTHER
IDEM C HAS FOR IS VOUCHED FOR B

EXPECTS TRAVEL ROME AT LEAST ONE WEEK PER MONTH TO AND

NEGATIVE FACTORS ARE HE IS UNKNOWN QUANTITY TO KUBAFK REGARDING OP FORENTIAL, SUITABILITY FOR AND INTEREST IN CLANDESTINE ACTIVITES

AMHIP 1 SAYS HE MOTIVATED HELP ANTI REGIME ACTIVI
POSITIVE PROBABLY PERS

DID HE RATA PERUMEN TYPES ON SALE BASIS AS AMSHIP SIR PUBLICALLY AND NOT BEEN OVERTLY ACTIVE ANTI-FOGD'S MOVEMENTIS.

SER, HIS APPOINTMENT ROME AND FREQUENT VISITS WOULD GIVE STA CHANCE TRY HIR AND IF STA FINDS HAS APTITUDE AND IS WELCOME FBRUIENS OUT EXPORS ITALY, HE COULD BE CALLED DOMI ON SPUR OF HOT FOR SPECIFIC DEY OP.

PROKU CH TO REGULAR VISITS.

PROBLEMS WITH ERLL APPEAR TO BE (A) LACK PROOF HIS AGES MABILLY MAS E CER EZD ITS PERNARDICK ROME.

(B) COV ROUD BETWEEN AFSHIP 1 AND FOR REGULAR DEVELOPMENTT BOEK CAN REVENTED LEUT JAKO ELLE

14-00000
INFO
PP, Capendiary On¥€9=2
DIRECTOR
MESSAGE
DR.STA WISHES IT WISH FALL BACK ON BELLA BUGEST STA OFFICER SHOULD TRAVEL SUISSE NOTE HOWEVER HIS DOES NOT WISH ANWHIP 1 HAVE BE USED:
IDEM C OUTLINE "PROPOSALS
ODYOKE
REALIZE THIS MAKES APPROACH BIT MORE DIFFICULT BUT BELIEVE IDEM C WELL ANARB PIKREST OBTAIN HELP ALL POSSIBLE SOURCES PERUMEN OFS AND WILL ACCEPT STORY HIS NAME AROSE DURING CHECK BY ODYOKE OF PERUMEN EXILES RESIDENT NEIGHBORING COUNTRIES AND VISITING ITALY PERIODICALLY, THOUGH KUBANK SUISSE HAS NO CONTACT IDENT
CALLE BERN CRIVA INFO DIR PLANNING IF STA DECIDES VISIT IDEM C AND COORDINAR ON ARRIVAL SINCE THEY MAY WISH USE LOCALLY IN ADDITION OR IN LIEU OF TAL USE
FYI:
IDEM C UNSUITABLE AND WISH PROCEED WITH BELL, ESSENTIAL SEND HIM ROME TLY PRIOR FINAL COMMITMENT TO ASCERTAIN CAPABILITIES AND ACCEPTABILITY. PERUST 3 THERE. WHILE FINAL COVER FOR RESIDENCE WOULD BE HISTONSIBILITY AND DEVIGEL WOULD ATTEMPT ARRANGE COVER FOR TOY THROUGH KUVEIT
KINEST INDICATES SUCH COVER POSSIBLE THOUGH HAVE NOT TALKED CONCRETE TERMS PENDING DECISION HIER AND LEPID reading
