14-00000

104-10220-10069 [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: POSADA, LUIS CLEMENTE
INCLUSIVE DATES:
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:
DELETIONS, IF ANY:
ROOM: C-300985
CI/OA
OFFICE OF SECURITY MATERIAL

DATE RECEIVED
DATE RETURNED
REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)
SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
NOT REVIEWED BY HSCA.
NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

TABLE SEC DISSEM BY
PERSON UNIT NOT FILED
ADVANCE COPIES SOOD/LOTTED
ACTION UNIT
FILE
PS/EG2,
TOTAL COPIES 201
SECRET
IFLAN, CI4, CI/OPS,
IS/IAN,
OSG/OC
OSO,
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

PRECEDENCE
STAFF IND

T 29 9644
E1 A693
PAGE 01-01
IN 067846
TOR:132220Z OCT 76
CARA 31115
SECRET 132216Z OCT 76 STAFF
CITE CARACAS 31115
TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR.
WN INTEL AK ULE

1. FYI, STATION HAS RECEIVED REPORTS FROM SEVERAL SOURCES
WHICH INDICATE ALMOST CERTAINLY THAT WKSCARLET-3 WAS ARRESTED BY
DISIP 12 OCTOBER AND IS BEING DETAINED UNDER SUSPICION OF
INVOLVEMENT IN THE 6 OCTOBER DESTRUCTION OF CUBANA AIRCRAFT NEAR
BARBADOS, ALSO, THAT WKSCARLET-3'S OFFICE WAS RAIDED AND ALL
FILES CONFISCATED MORNING 13 OCTOBER.

2. FILE: 221-2300985, E2 IMPDET.

SECRET

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000
Office of Security
Polygraph Results, 29 June 1973.
Subject: 300985

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000

MESSAGE FORM

ROUTING AND RECORDING INFO
PHILIP SHARE
UP/3/V
2575
FEB 7

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
CONTROL
FILE, VII.
SECRET

NO INDEX
RETURN TO
FILE IN ON FILE NO.

CITE DIRECTOR
TO: PRIORITY CARACAS INFO ROME.
WKRALLY WKSCARLET
REF: CARACAS 21092 (IN 823697)

1. AFTER CAREFUL RECONSIDERATION, BELIEVE IN VIEW CONSIDERABLE
FLAP POTENTIAL THAT WKSCARLET-3 SHOULD NOT BE MET IN ROME.
REALIZE THAT HE COULD PRODUCE SOME INTERESTING INTEL FROM THE
TIMELINESS OF
BUT DO NOT FEEL IN THIS INSTANCE THAT REPORTING WORTH RISK
INVOLVED.

2. SUGGEST YOU TELL WKSCARLET-3 CONTACT CANCELLED BECAUSE
ROME CASE OFFICER EQCZU CSEC WHO WOULD HAVE MET HIM EXPECTS TO BE
OUT OF TOWN AT TIME OF WKSCARLET-3'S VISIT AND NO OTHER APPROPRIATE
CONTACT AVAILABLE.

3. FILE 201-300985, 75-2-16/3, E2 IMPDET

*REPORTED ON WKSCARLET-3 TRIP TO ROME TO BUG COLOMBIAN DELEGATION TO
COLOMBIAN-VENEZUELAN BORDER TALKS.

E/GR. PEAKE (TELECOORD)

THEODORE G. SHACKLEY
C/WHD

RICHARD L. CONOLLY.
C/WH/3

RELEASING OFFICER
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
COPY NO.

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000
SECRET

201 PERSONALITY FILE ACTION REQUEST
(Please Type)

TO: IP/201 Section Room CA-20 Tube Address: DW-6
FROM: Nancy L. Davis
FILE CONTROL
OPEN 201
TYPE OF
ACTION
AMEND 201
(Select Only One)
ADD CRYPTONYM
CANCEL CRYPTONYM

TRUE NAME
(LAST) (First) (Middle)

CLASSIFIED BY OF 32
Supplementary Explanatory Notes For Those Items
With An Asterisk (*) Following the Item Number
Are Contained on the Reverse Side

OFFICE DESIGNATION
(CSN 50).
FILE CONTROL
(Select Only One)
HOLD UNRESTRICTED IN IP/FILES
HOLD IN IP/FILES BUT RESTRICT TO DESK
PERMANENTLY CHANGE TO DESK
TUBE ADDRESS
BS-1

ROOM
3R-2627
DATE
25 Sept 72
PHONE
1522

(IP Use Only)
3. ENTER CRYPTONYM(S) ONLY IF CRYPTONYM ACTION HAS BEEN INDICATED IN ITEM 1.
USE ONE COPY OF FORM AND COMPLETE ITEMS 5, 14, 15, 10, AND 21. DO NOT INCLUDE
TRUE NAME INFORMATION.

SUPERSEDED CRYPTONYM, IF HENCE/4 NEW CRYPTONYM: WKSCARLET/3
B. 201 NUMBER
0300985

NAME VARIANTS AND TELECODES (For Type, Use A For Allies, V For Variant or AKA, M For Maiden)
(LAST) (First) (Middle) TYPE

SEX
8. DATE OF BIRTH. IF CIRCA CHECK BOX
9. COUNTRY AND CITY/TOWN/PROVINCE OF BIRTH
(IP Use Only)
(Circle One)
DAY MONTH YEAR

10. CITIZENSHIP (IP Use Only) 11. OCCUPATION (IP Use Only)

14. INTELLIGENCE AFFILIATION(S) OR TARGET ORGANIZATION(S) 15. COUNTRY OF LOCATION
13. OF CODES 14. ACTION DESK (IP Use Only) 15. INTEREST DIST
VENE VENE VENE

12. CITE FIELD ADDRESSEES TO RECEIVE INDEX CARDS! 18. COUNTRY, STATE, CITY/TOWN OF LOCATION
16. DOCUMENT SYMBOL NUMBER DATE (IP Use Only)
YR

20. SUMMARY TEXT FOR (Insert additional identifying and descriptive data. Do not include Cryptonyms. If spouse
INDEX RECORDS. record desired, provide spouse bio data here preceded by "Code R.")

SIGNATURE OF REQUESTER 22. 201 NUMBER
Nancy L. Davis 0300985

SECRET WARNING - SISAMI (138-51)

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH/3/V

Operational Approval is hereby granted in the case of
for the purpose specified in your request
dated:
Unilateral penetration of CIRASH,

This Approval is based upon evaluation of Information available to this
Office, and is granted under authority contained in CSI and CSI-P 10:

FOR SUPPORT DIVISION
Date:

SECRET

CADRE/LTE PREVIOUS EDITION

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000
SECRET

FILE NO. 300985.

NOTICE TO: DIVISION PERSONNEL REVIEWING THIS FILE

Please complete the following steps:

1. NAME OF REVIEWER (please print) NANCY L. DAVIS

2. OFFICE DESIGNATION OF REVIEWER: WH/3/O

3. DATE OF REVIEW 10 JULY 72

4. Do you contemplate dissemination of information reviewed: NO
to field
to another US Government Agency (if so, to whom)

The dissemination of any Office of Security investigative information,
including FBI reports, must be coordinated with CI/OA and the Office
of Security.

5. Comments:

DO NOT REMOVE THE ATTACHED FOLDER FROM CI/OA

SECRET

--- Page 8 ---

14-00000

SECRET

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW

TO:
FROM: CHIEF,
SUBJECT:

IN ORDER THAT FURTHER CONSIDERATION MAY BE GIVEN YOUR REQUEST FOR APPROVAL IN THIS CASE, IT IS REQUESTED
THAT YOU FURNISH THIS OFFICE THE INFORMATION CHECKED BELOW, OR REVIEW INFORMATION AS INDICATED.

RESULTS OF TECHNICAL INTERROGATION
U.S. COMINT TRACES
REVIEW OF SECURITY OFF. REPORT AT CI/OA
REVIEW OF FBI REPORT AT CI/OA
OTHERS (See Remarks)

FILO TRACES
WI TRACES (Incl. COMINT)
OPERATIONAL AND DIVISION TRACES (incl. COMINT)

REMARKS:

SECRET

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000
Office of Security Investigative Report
26 April 1972
Subject: 319235

--- Page 10 ---

14-00000
SECRET

REQUEST FOR INVESTIGATION AND/OR NAME CHECK 19 January 1972 JR
PROJECT AND AREA OF ASSIGNMENT
Venezuela

TO: Deputy Director Security, 108
FROM: Chief, CI/Operations/Approval
and Support Division
WH/3/V

SUBJECT: 201-300985 SO# 319235
TYPE OF REQUEST
POA CA CNC SRI
USE OF SUBJECT
Informant
SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS (Limitations on investigation, cover pretest, etc.)

ATTACHMENTS
DIVISION (include comint) FIELD
NDI NDI

T/N: POSADA Carriles, Luis Clemente
DPOB: 15 February 1928, Cienfuegos, Cuba

ENDORSEMENT

TO: Chief, CI/OA DATE
FROM: Deputy Director Security, 108
1. OS Indices reunit SO# 319235-No wife sine "/71
2. Checks were conducted at the indicated Agencies with negative results.
FRI FBI ACHT STATE
HCUA OSI I &

REMARKS

3. Checks were conducted at the following Agency(ies) with positive results, reports attached.
4. Domestic Field Investigation has been completed, reports attached.
5. Domestic Field investigation favorable, reports will follow within 60 days.

SECRET
