14-00000

104-10290-10309

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: MEXICO CITY

ACTION: 007, 01/04, CAS 8, FF, MR. (2003).

SECRET 222330Z

DIR INFO WAVE MNTY CITE MEXI 6620

PER UMEN 37645573

REQUEST TRACES AND POA JORGE ANTONIO ABASOLO GARCIA, CUBAN, DOB 1927

INDUSTRIAL ENGINEER GRADUATE GEORGIA TECH, ADDRESS CALLE 96 NUMBER 308 TELEPHONE 2-6301 MIRAMAR, HAVANA. SUB DIVORCED FROM MARIE FAZ SOMEILLAN WHO NOW REPORTED LIVING WITH TWO CHILDREN AGES 5 AND 7 IN MNTY. SUB CHIEF OF DIVISION IN MINISTRY: INDUSTRIES.

WORKS CLOSELY WITH ERNESTO CHE GUEVARA. CONTROLS WOOD FURNITURE INDUSTRY, PORTION OF PAPER INDUSTRY INCLUDING PAPER SACKS, TOY INDUSTRY, ONE OTHER UNSPECIFIED INDUSTRY. HAS HAD SOME CONTACT WITH SOVIETS IN CONNECTION WITH CEMENT PROCUREMENT.

RECENTLY REPORTED BELIEF SOVS CONSTRUCTING SUBMARINE BASE IN CUBA. CAME TO MEXICO ON SPECIAL PASSPORT 2 AUG 63 TO SEE CHILDREN BUT FORMER WIFE MANAGED PREVENT CONTACT RETURNED CUBA 21 AUG.

2. OTHER OF SUBJ IS GUSTAVO ABASOLO, CUBAN, ABOUT 42, LEFT CUBA ABOUT 1959 OR 1960 GOING FIRST TO BERMUDA, LATER TO MEXICO. EMPLOYED CONT INCUSE Y 22 YEARS COMPANIA INTERAMERICANA DE SEGUROS, NOW ASSISTANT MANAGER SALES FOR MEXICO. STRONGLY ANTI-CASTRO, FRIEND OF AMSEVER-2. CORRESPONDS WITH SUBJ THROUGH NETHERLANDS ASSY DLA OMATIC POUCH AT STATION REQUEST THROUGH A-2. GUSTAVO

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

MESSAGE

RECENTLY ASKED SUBJ IF WOULD BE WILLING FURNISH "CERTAIN INFORMATION" FOR A-2 WHOM SUBJ KNOWS AS ANTI-CASTRO. SUBJ GAVE TENTATIVE AGREEMENT BUT ASKED: HOW FAR DO YOU WANT TO GO?

SUBJ PLANNING TO LEAVE CUBA AT END OF YEAR, DISILLUSIONED WITH REGIME. BELIEVE STATION MIGHT BE ABLE PERSUADE HIM STAY IN PLACE.

4. DIVORCED MOTHER OF EX-WIFE HAS RE-MARRIED TO JOAQUIN MIRABAL, COMMUNIST; FORMER CHIEF OF SECURITY SERVICE, HAVANA RECENTLY PROMOTED TO MORE IMPORTANT POSITION.

ABOVE INFO FROM GUSTAVO ABASOLO, FLESHED OUT BY A-2 WHO MET SUBJ DURING AUGUST SOJOURN. NO STATION TRACES ANY PERSONS MENTIONED HEREIN EXCEPT FOR CONFIRMATION SUBJ TRAVELED.

LIFE LISTS SHOW HE CARRIED SPECIAL PASSPORT G3/442, SHOWS HIS ADDRESS AS CALLE NUMBER 1712, MARIANAO.
