(104-10100-10034)

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

8.AZ 21 NOV. 63

CABLE SEC:

FROM: DIRECTOR

INFO:

CC: C/DC, DOP, ADOP, CI, CI/OPS, CI/OA, FI, WE 4, NE 4, CE 6

MULTI-ADDRESSEE CABLE

ROUTINE

CITE DIR 85387

(PLS POUCH CABLE TO FOLLOWING:) (WRENCH POUCH)

FRAN (BONN 5), BRLN 5, MUNI 5

ATHE 6, ALL OFFERS

LOND PARI BRUS

HAGU COPE STOC

OSLO ROME MADR

FROB HAMB VIEN

BERN GNVA CAIR BEIR TEHE TELA RIOD SAOP

(MEXI MRID SAGO MONT CARA LAPA LIMA

QUIT GUAT MELB HONG WAVE BARC BELA LISB

OTTA TRIE

SECRET

ROUTINE

CITE DIR 85387

RONIS: jd

EXT 6153

FILE IN CS FILE NO. 200-120-47

TO: CERTAIN STATIONS AND BASES

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:

INFO:

REF: DIR 22218

1. RECENTLY CONCLUDED HOS REVIEW OF ZR PRIMA PROGRAM SHOWS THAT KUBARK EFFORTS HAVE NOT ACHIEVED ANY SIGNIFICANT RESULTS AND CONTINUATION OF PROGRAM AS SUCH NO LONGER WARRANTED. MAIN REASON FOR KUBARK FAILURE IS THAT CUBAN TECHNICIAN RECRUITING PROGRAM HAS BEEN A MISERABLE FAILURE WHEN MEASURED AGAINST ORIGINAL OBJECTIVE OF 2000 TECHS FROM WESTERN EUROPE ALONE. THOUGH OUR FIGURES NOT COMPLETE, WE ESTIMATE PROBABLY LESS THAN FIFTY CANDIDATES HAVE RECEIVED CONTRACT APPROVAL AND WE ARE ABLE TO CONFIRM ABOUT TEN WHO HAVE ACTUALLY MADE IT TO THE ISLAND. KUBARK SUCCEEDED IN INSERTING ABOUT THIRTY RECRUITED TECHS INTO THE VARIOUS HIRING CHANNELS, BUT SO FAR ONLY TWO HAVE RECEIVED CONTRACT APPROVAL FROM HAVANA.

2. CUBAN FAILURE TO RECRUIT IN SIGNIFICANT NUMBERS APPEARS DUE LARGELY TO RELUCTANCE FOREIGN MINISTRY AND FOREIGN SERVICE OFFICERS TO PURSUE TECH RECRUITING MISSION AGGRESSIVELY, BUREAUCRATIC INCOMPETENCE IN HAVANA, FEAR OF INFILTRATION OF HOSTILE AGENTS AND PROBABLE LOSS OF INTEREST IN THE PROGRAM ON PART OF CASTRO HIMSELF. THESE FACTORS WHICH EMERGE FROM OUR STUDY OF THE CUBAN PERFORMANCE ACCOUNT FOR LACK OF RESPONSE FROM EMBASSIES TO APPLICATIONS, LONG DELAY IN GETTING WORD BACK FROM HAVANA. LONG TIME LAG BETWEEN INITIAL APPLICATION AND ULTIMATE APPROVAL FROM HAVANA, WHICH RUNS SIX TO NINE MONTHS, HAS COST CUBANS NUMBER OF TECHS INITIALLY EAGER BUT SUBSEQUENTLY LOST INTEREST OR TOOK OTHER JOBS.

3. IN FACE OF FOREGOING WE DO NOT BELIEVE IT WORTHWHILE TO CONTINUE INTENSIVE SEARCH FOR ZR PRIMA CANDIDATES FOR INSERTION INTO CUBAN HIRING CHANNEL. STATIONS WITH ACTIVE LEADS SHOULD STAY WITH THEM IN THE HOPE THEY MAY STILL BE HIRED, BUT CEASE EFFORTS TO GENERATE LEADS FROM SCRATCH. ON OTHER HAND, THERE ARE FAIR NUMBER NON-BLOC TECHS IN CUBA AND IT LIKELY CUBANS WILL CONTINUE TO HIRE NELSON LIMITED SELECTIVE BASIS AS THEY DID PRIOR TO ZR PRIMA PROGRAM. STATIONS THEREFORE ARE URGED TO CONTINUE IN ALERT FOR SUCH OPPORTUNITIES AND TO EXPLOIT THEM IN SAME MANNER AS ALL OTHER OPPORTUNITIES TO PLACE RESIDENT AGENTS IN CUBA.

4. IN THIS CONNECTION WE NOTE THAT MOST PERUMEN OFFICIALS RESPONSIBLE FOR RECRUITING TECHS TEND TO RELY HEAVILY ON LOCAL CP STAMP OF APPROVAL OR OTHER STRONG INDICATION THAT CANDIDATE IS POLITICALLY ACCEPTABLE. LACKING THIS THEY MAY EITHER IGNORE THE APPLICATION OR REJECT IT.

5. RESPONSE OF MOST STATIONS IN IMPLEMENTING ZR PRIMA HAS BEEN MOST GRATIFYING. WE PROVIDED CUBANS WITH GOOD NUMBER HIGHLY QUALIFIED ENGINEERS AND TECHNICIANS WHICH THEY FOR REASONS CITED UNABLE OR UNWILLING TO ACCEPT. KUBARK HAS MADE A RESPECTABLE EFFORT TO EXPLOIT THIS OPPORTUNITY AND FACT THAT WE HAVE NOT ACHIEVED SIGNIFICANT RESULTS IS MERELY REFLECTION OF CUBAN CONFUSION AND INEPTITUDE WITH RESULTANT FAILURE TO ACHIEVE THEIR OWN GOALS.

6. DISCONTINUE USE ZAMA SLUG AND FILE 200-120-47.

END OF MESSAGE

CIS COMMENT: Cable pre-dates CS files. Copy may be seen in CIA reference file.

INFO:

SAB/BOB

SAS/MOB

WB/5

C/VI

BC Locke

Thomas Fthiele

IC/EB

D. O'ETAX
