```markdown
14-00000

104-10218-10013

[2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME:
ITKIN, HERBERT
201-836808

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:
ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY: THIRD AGENCY DOCUMENTS

DATE
RECEIVED RETURNED REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)
SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
NOT REVIEWED BY HSCA
NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

---

14-00000

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
TOTAL COPIES: 16

ADVANCE SGT
SLOTTED

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY

BY:
DISSEN BY
ACTION UNIT
ACTION

FILE AR

DOC. MICRO. SER.
SEP 15 1972
MICROFICHE

SECRET 232234Z AUG 72 STAFF
CITE SANTO DOMINGO 13099
DIRECTOR.
WOMUSE EMPYREX
201-836808
694715

1. EMPYREX LIAISON ADVISES HERBERT ITKIN ARRIVED
SANTO DOMINGO 22 AUG 72 FROM NEW YORK PAA 235 PROHIBITED
ENTRY AND RETURNED NEW YORK SAME DAY PAA 236. ITKIN BORN
(19 NOV 26, NEW YORK, US PP B 1220178.

2. NO STATION TRACES. EMPYREX RECORDS INDICATE SUBJ
BLACKLISTED BECAUSE HE ENGAGED ESPIONAGE ACTIVITIES AND HAS
MAFIA CONNECTIONS. ACCORDING SAME FILE, NY TIMES REPORTED
SUBJ PROVIDED INFO TO BKCROWN ON PERSONS IN DOMREP.

3. TRACES REQUESTED.

4. INDEX. FILE 201-836808, 22-2-20/3. E2 IMPDET WN-SISM.
SECRET

---

14-00000

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES: 16

ELISABETH VETTER: BA
WH/7/DR
EXT: 5156
DATE: 20 AUGUST 1972

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
BY: 28
CONF:
PER:

SECRET

INDEX
NO INDEX
RETURN TO BRANCH
FILE RID
FILE IN CS FILE NO.

CITE DIRECTOR

SANTO DOMINGO
REF SANTO DOMINGO 13099 (IN.694715)

BELOW ARE ILLUSTRATIVE TRACES HERBERT ITKIN (201-836808),
PARTNER LAW FIRM ITKIN, ROBERTS, GREENBAUM, NEW YORK, REGISTERED AGENT
FOR "HAITIAN GOVERNMENT IN EXILE" REPRESENTING LOUIS DEJOIE
(201-240483) AND OTHER HAITIAN EXILE GROUPS 1963. REPORTEDLY FURNISHED
MONEY TO GROUP INVADING HAITI AUG 63. A AND B ARE FOR STATION USE ONLY.

A. HAITIAN GOVERNMENT IN EXILE USED SUBJECT'S OFFICES IN
NEW YORK CITY; SUBJ SAID HE MADE PERSONAL LOAN OF $15,000 TO
DEJOIE. (DBA-63510, 19 FEB 64).

B. SUBJECT'S FORMER FATHER-IN-LAW CALLED KODISH, NEW YORK
TO SAY SUBJ CLOSELY TIED TO BKCROWN, GIVING IT MUCH ASSISTANCE
HAITI AND ELSEWHERE, IMPLYING SUBJ TRUSTED INFORMANT OR AGENT,
NOT STAFF EMPLOYEE. WARNED BKCROWN SUBJ NOT DESIRABLE BECAUSE
DOUBTS RE RELIABILITY, DISCRETION, ABILITY TO MEET FINANCIAL
OBLIGATIONS, AND MENTAL EQUILIBRIUM. (KODISH MEMO, 15 FEB 66)

C. NEW YORK TIMES, 9 MARCH 68, REPORTED U. S. OFFICIAL
DESCRIBED SUBJ AS UNDERCOVER AGENT WHO INFILTRATED ORGANIZED
CRIME, REPORTING REGULARLY, TO LNERGO.

(CONTINUED...)
22-2-20/3
CS COPY
COORDINATING OFFICERS
RELEASING OFFICER
SECRET

---

14-00000

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES:

ELISABETH VETTER: BA
UNIT:
EXT:
DATE:

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
BY:
CONF:
PER:

SECRET

INDEX
NO INDEX
RETURN TO BRANCH
FILE RID
FILE IN CS FILE NO.

CITE DIRECTOR

SECRET

ONE HIGH OFFICIAL SAID
SUBJ. RISKED HIS LIFE TO "STAND UP TO MAFIA." ARTICLE ALSO STATES
SUBJ REGISTERED SEPT 63 AS FOREIGN AGENT DOM REP, MAKING NUMEROUS
TRIPS THERE. (TN-ING COPY THIS ITEM.)

D. WASHINGTON POST, 19 JULY 68, REPORTED SIX ALLEGED
ASSOCIATES OF SUBJ, A KEY FIGURE IN JAMES L. MARCUS (FORMER NYC
WATER COMMISSIONER) KICKBACK CASE, INDICATED CHARGES OF ANOTHER
KICKBACK CONSPIRACY INVOLVING MORTGAGE APPLICATIONS MADE TO
TEAMSTERS UNION PENSION FUND; TWO OF SIX ALLEGED ASSOCIATES
IDENTIFIED AS MAFIA MEMBERS. SUBJ NOT INDICTED BUT NAMED IN
FOUR OVERT ACTS CITED INDICTMENT.

E. NEW YORK DAILY NEWS, 15 OCT 68, REPORTED SUBJ, LABOR
LAWYER, TRYING HAVE HIS TRIAL MOVED FROM STATE TO FEDERAL COURT,
CONTENDING HE ACTING AS LXERGO AND BKCROWN AGENT IN CONNECTION
ABOVE CASE.

2. JULY 68 CHECK NUMEROUS BKCROWN COMPONENTS FAILED REVEAL ANY
CONNECTION BETWEEN SUBJ AND BKCROWN.

3. FILE: 201-836808 AND 22-2-20/3. E2 IMPDET
END OF MESSAGE
COORDINATING OFFICERS
RELEASING OFFICER
SECRET

---

14-00000

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES:

ELISABETH VETTER: BA
UNIT:
EXT:
DATE:

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
BY:
CONF:
PER:

SECRET

INDEX
NO INDEX
RETURN TO BRANCH
FILE RID
FILE IN CS FILE NO.

CITE DIRECTOR

SECRET

PAGE THREE

WH COMMENT: REQUESTED HQS TRACES SUBJ WHO ARRIVED DOM REP 22 AUG 72
FROM NEW YORK, PROHIBITED FROM ENTERING, AND RETURNED
NEW YORK SAME DAY.

CI/EXO F.E. HUBBARD IN DRAFT

THEODORE G. SHACKLEY
C/WHD
COORDINATING OFFICERS
WILLIAM
C/WH/7
RELEASING OFFICER
SECRET

---

14-00000

ITKIN.

SUBJECT: NAME CHECK REPORT MPRC

ITKIN, Herbert

DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH: 19 NOV 1926 Richmond Hill, LI, N.Y.

ADDRESS: 1738 48th St., Bklyn, NY

CASE NO AND CATEGORY: 544867-F/53-HRK

SERVICE: ARMY

DATE CHECKED: 7 JUN 1971

FILE WHEN INITIALLED

ACTIVE DUTY: 14 Feb 45 - 26 Nov 46
SERIAL NO: 12230 694
MILITARY SPECIALTY OF CHIEF DUTIES: FOREIGN SERVICE

EDUCATION (College): 13 frs - Cornell ('44) / Brooklyn Coll ('45)

SECURITY CLEARANCES: NONE INDICATED

COURT MARTIAL (S): NONE

REMARKS:
1) Mother: ITKIN, Edythe
2) Good Cond. mal.

WILLIAM P. KOSTERMAN
Special Agent in Charge

DATE: 7 JUN 1971

---

14-00000

Herbert ITKIN

Date and Place of Birth: 19 Nov. 1926, Queens (also given
as Jamaica, L.I., New York).

Description: 5'11", Brown hair, Brown eyes, (Photos in file).

Passports and Travel:

Ppt. B122634, issued 4 Jan. 1961, Renewed 11 Feb. 1964.

Ppt G097867, issued 14 Jan. 1966.

a. Was to depart NYC for UK, BOAC 506
o/a 14 Jan. '66. Had made 4 trips abroad in
earlier 12 months.

b. Was to depart o/a 8 Jan. '61, UK &
Western Europe. Two weeks vacation.

Father: Arthur ITKIN. Born 18 May 1901, Russia (also given
as "Poland", 18 May 1900). US citizen (by naturalization? marriage?)
Last stipulated residence: 118 Front St., Dublin, Ga (?).

Mother: Edith HAVES, born 27 April 1907 (also given as
"27 April 1905"). US citizen by birth.

Permanent Residences:

440 E. 79th St., NYC (Jan. 1966)

33 Greenwich Ave., NYC (Jan. 1964)

168 Rim Lane, Hicksville, New York (Jan. 1961)

Shelton Towers Hotel, Lexington Ave., NYC (Aug. 1966)

300 Madison Ave., NYC (Legal offices, 1965).

---

14-00000

Marital Status:

Adah Itkin, born 4 May 1925, married 12 Dec. 1963

Diana Kane, born 8 Feb. 1930

---

14-00000

DEPT OF STATE PASSPORT APPLICATION
DATE: 14 JANUARY 1966
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
SUBJECT: HERBERT ITKIN

---

14-00000

ITKINE HERBERT

---

14-00000

Our records indicate ppt.
B122634 Issued 1-4-61

---

14-00000

NEW YORK PASSPORT AGENCY
630 FI, H AVENUE
NEW YORK 20, NEW YORK

1680 FIFTH AVENUE
NEW YORK 20, N. Y.

---

14-00000

Department of Health The City of New York

CERTIFICATION OF BIRTH

THIS IS TO CERTIFY that
Herbert Itkin
was born in the City of New York on
Nov. 19, 1926
according to Birth Record No. 41185
filed in the Office of this Bureau on Nov. 1936

In witness whereof, the seal of the Department
of Health of the City of New York has been affixed
hereto this 4 day of 1961

Director of Bureau
Borough Registrar

Warning: This certification is not valid if it has been altered in any
way whatsoever or if it does not bear the raised seal of
the Department of Health.

---

14-00000

SECRET 232234Z AUG 72 STAFF
CITE SANTO DOMINGO 13099
DIRECTOR.
WOMUSE EMPYREX
201-836808
694715

1. EMPYREX LIAISON ADVISES HERBERT ITKIN ARRIVED
SANTO DOMINGO 22 AUG 72 FROM NEW YORK PAA 235 PROHIBITED
ENTRY AND RETURNED NEW YORK SAME DAY PAA 236. ITKIN BORN
(19 NOV 26, NEW YORK, US PP B 1220178.

2. NO STATION TRACES. EMPYREX RECORDS INDICATE SUBJ
BLACKLISTED BECAUSE HE ENGAGED ESPIONAGE ACTIVITIES AND HAS
MAFIA CONNECTIONS. ACCORDING SAME FILE, NY TIMES REPORTED
SUBJ PROVIDED INFO TO BKCROWN ON PERSONS IN DOMREP.

3. TRACES REQUESTED.

4. INDEX. FILE 201-, 22-2-20/3. E2 IMPDET WN-SISM.
SECRET

---

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED INTERNAL
USE ONLY CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
CURRENT CABLE

TO: ACTION ADDRESSEE
Cables forwarded herewith
have not been integrated
into the CS record system.
2. If you feel they should
be classified into a CS
file, please indicate file
number (and other necessary
processing) and return to
RID/SD, Room 1 D 17, TUBE:
DW-3.
RETAIN:
CS File Number
INDEXING: YES NO
(If yes, indicate names.)
3. If these cables do not
require processing into
the CS Records System,
please destroy.

E/BC cable action turned
over to Office of General Consul with
DIRECTOR 035476, 19 May 70; with
following from CI office DIR 037202
No file designation on either outgoing.
Per telecom with DC/CI Secy forwarding
RID cable for proper disposition on
clandestine element. Particularly info
that sheds some unfavorable publicity
toward Agency.

---

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

TOTAL COPIES 14

SECRET 181745Z MAY 70 CITE LONDON 1613 (LAUTERBACH ACTING)
DIRECTOR
RYBAT KEYWAY

1. SMOTH (SUPROOT) EXPECTS ER ASKED BY HYG TO COMMENT
ON ACCURACY LONDON TELEGRAPH ARTICLE 16 MAY TO EFFECT THAT
MR. HERBERT ITKIN, AMERICAN LABOR LAWYER, WAS ON JKLANCE
SECRET MISSION IN BRITAIN IN 1965. ARTICLE SAYS JKLANCE
HAS FORMALLY ACKNOWLEDGED IN PAPER SUBMITTED TO NEW YORK
SUPREME COURT THAT ITKIN WORKED AS AN AGENT IN BRITAIN AND
THAT THIS ONLY SECOND TIME JKLANCE HAS PUBLICLY ACKNOWLEDGED
THE ASSIGNMENT OF AN UNDERCOVER AGENT NOT OFFICIALLY ON
JKLANCE PAYROLL (POWERS WAS FIRST).

2. ACCORDING LOCAL LNERGO, IT ACTUALLY HANDLED
ITKIN IN LONDON AS INFORMANT ON CRIMINAL MATTERS IN 1965.
JAGUAR AWARE OF THIS. HOWEVER, LOCAL LNERGO AS CONFUSED
AS WE ARE AS TO ITKIN'S JKLANCE CONNECTION AT THAT TIME.

3. REQUEST HQS ADVISE WHAT WE MAY TELL SMOTH.

4. NO STATION RECORD ITKIN.

5. FILE DEFER.
GP-1
SECRET

---

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

Seen by John Greaney and John Warner.
Neither has any problems with it.

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.
OGC
2/13/69

---

14-00000

Chief of Station, San Salvador
Chief, WH Division
Chief, WOMUSE

SUBJECT: Interview of Mr. Luis E, GUTIERREZ
ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES
See paragraph 1 below.

1. Your assistance is requested in interviewing the Salvadorian citizen,
Luis E. GUTIERREZ, for information which would be helpful to this Government
in determining the accuracy of certain claims made confidentially by
Herbert L. ITKIN. Mr. ITKIN is a prime witness in legal proceedings presently
underway in New York City involving the Mafia and related underworld organizations. ITKIN lives under the protection of U.S. Federal Marshals.

2. The following data is for your information. It should not be used in
dealing with GUTIERREZ or outside of this Organization. ITKIN has been an
FBI informant since March 1963. He has now claimed to have worked for this
Organization during the period 1954/55 to 1960. ITKIN asserts that his contact
during these years was one Philip HARBIN. This inquiry is concerned solely
with ITKIN's claimed relationship with this Organization from 1954/55 to 1960
when he alleges HARBIN was his contact. As will be seen, GUTIERREZ, ITKIN
alleges, also knew HARBIN during that time and that fact, therefore, is
material to the credibility of ITKIN's story.

ITKIN's first contact with Philip HARBIN was in 1955 when he claims to
have been contacted pursuant to a meeting be, ITKIN, had in Philadelphia with
a leading personality of this Organization and another high-government official
late in 1954 or early 1955. According to ITKIN, HARBIN never made the
specific claim of being from this Organization but that was ITKIN's assumption.

ITKIN describes HARBIN as about 42 or 43 (in 1955), an American.
He had receding hair, combed back but parted. He was about 5'8" in height,

Attachments:
As stated (2 copies)

Orig & 1 - COS, San Salvador

HSSW-2742
DATE: 14 February 1969
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET/RYBAT
201-836808
ORIGINATING OFFICE: CI/R&A
OFFICER: R. B. Holmes

COORDINATING OFFICERS:
2 - COS, Salvador w/a WH/2/ES&HD
1 - WH/2/ES&HD w/o
1 - CI/R&A w/a
1 - 201-836808 w/a

---

14-00000

well-built with little evidence of fat. He always wore a vest. He spoke fluent
Spanish and could have been of Polish or Russian family background. HARBIN
always drank tea, never coffee. He appeared affluent with a professorial air
about him.

Following an initial meeting, ITKIN alleged that he and HARBIN met
periodically in New York City. ITKIN alleges that he passed to HARBIN copies
of the correspondence developed by his law firm, Delson, Levin and Gordon,
dealing with Indonesia, Burma, and India. ITKIN left that law firm in mid-1957,
presumably thereby losing total access. Among the materials ITKIN claims he
passed to HARBIN before he left the Delson, Levin and Gordon firm was informa-
tion he picked up from a friend who worked at the United Nations for the
Government of El Salvador. This friend was Luis E. GUTIERREZ (see biographic
sketch, Attachment A). ITKIN claims that he became very friendly with
GUTIERREZ, who was studying either at New York University or Columbia
where he prepared a master's thesis on El Salvador's economic position.
HARBIN, he says, was interested in the topic and ITKIN alleges he furnished
HARBIN notes of GUTIERREZ' monograph.

Sometime presumably after mid-year 1957, HARBIN asked ITKIN if he
knew anybody else who could do (intelligence) work. ITKIN recalled GUTIERREZ,
who meanwhile had moved to the position as Consul General of El Salvador in
New Orleans, Louisiana. HARBIN--ITKIN says--accepted the suggestion and
ITKIN provided an introduction for HARBIN by letter, which he sent to GUTIERREZ
in New Orleans. ITKIN asserts that HARBIN--according to his own statement--
went to New Orleans and made the "new contact". ITKIN claims he last saw
HARBIN in 1960.

3. A comparison between the key points of ITKIN's account as summarized
in the immediately preceding paragraph with the data set out in Attachment A and
E will show immediate contradictions that tend to destroy any credibility in
ITKIN's account, particularly with respect to his relationship to GUTIERREZ.

We also point out, solely for your information, that we have found no confirmation in our records of any relationship between this Organization and ITKIN during
the period 1954-1960. No traces have been found in our records or anywhere in
government thus far of a Philip HARBIN, and there is explicit denial that there was
any meeting in Philadelphia in 1954 between ITKIN and the high officials he
nominates. Finally, there is no substantiation in our files of any of the intelli-
gence product which ITKIN allegedly passed to HARBIN. This case, however, is
of such a nature that we must strive, if possible, to have GUTIERREZ' own
statement for the record.

4. We leave to the Station determination of the best manner to approach
GUTIERREZ. It is our preference that a Station officer, under suitable cover,
perform the interview, but it may well be that a consular or embassy officer
might be the best person to do the job. We repeat that we are concerned in this
matter solely with the verification or denial of ITKIN's statements, specifically
the allegation that he introduced HARBIN to GUTIERREZ in New Orleans and
that as a consequence GUTIERREZ would be in a position to identify and describe
HARBIN in a way that would permit us to locate him if he exists. The request
for GUTIERREZ' assistance in this matter is in no way predicated upon hostility
towards ITKIN nor is there any predisposition against his claims if indeed
evidence is found to back them up. If GUTIERREZ indicates that he is willing to
provide whatever information he can, you can assure him that his information is
solely for U.S. Government use and will not be made public by us at any time
without his expressed consent. Also, it is clear that we are prepared to accept
his decision to give no assistance in the matter.

SECRET/RYBAT

---

14-00000

SECRET/RYBAT
HSSW-2742

5. We have compiled a short statement that might be used by the interviewer
to explain to GUTIERREZ, the purpose of the interview. (see Attachment B). A list
of questions, which should be given orally, is elaborated in Attachment C. You
will note that these questions concern the larger as well as narrower elements
of GUTIERREZ' relations with ITKIN. We are willing to settle for a specific
answer to the narrower question of Philip HARBIN in preference to generalizations
about the whole relationship. If, as a consequence of your handling, GUTIERREZ
is willing to talk in depth, we will be grateful.

6. Attachment D is a copy of a New York Times article concerning ITKIN and
one of the completed federal cases in New York City. This item is attached for
your background reading. This may be shown to GUTIERREZ, of course.
Attachment E is a copy of a letter dated 26 February 1965 from GUTIERREZ to
ITKIN. Again, the content of this letter tends to support the theory that ITKIN's
story, as elaborated in paragraph 2 above, is a fabrication. While possibly based
on a real relationship, it appears to be a fabrication with respect to chronology
and with respect to the exact mutual interests involved. Also included in this
attachment is ITKIN's answer to the letter. We feel in retrospect that
GUTIERREZ might be unhappy to read his own letter in the course of a consular
interview. We, therefore, suggest that this not be shown to him. However,
there is no objection to an indication that the U.S. Government is aware that
GUTIERREZ was in perfectly correct correspondence with ITKIN during 1965 on
business matters.

7. We would appreciate compliance at your earliest convenience and a pre-
liminary indication by cable of GUTIERREZ' response, if one is forthcoming, on
the questions concerning GUTIERREZ' knowledge of HARBIN. If there is anything
unclear in this dispatch, Headquarters would welcome any questions by cable,
All correspondence should be addressed Chief, WOMUSE, via Chief, WH.

James R. Rumsey

SECRET/RYBAT

---

14-00000

SECRET/RYBAT
Attachment A to HSSW-2742

GUTIERREZ, Luis Enrique

Born in San Salvador, El Salvador, on 15 July 1916; son of Luis and Concepcion
G.; B. Commerce from Sir George Williams University, 1948; M.A. from New York
University, 1951; Ph.D. in Economics, University of San Salvador, 1959; married
Lydia DIAZ on 21 September 1940; one daughter, Maria Marta; vice consul of
El Salvador in Montreal, 1944-1949; consul in New York City, 1949-1952; consul
general, New Orleans, 1952-1958 (30 December 1952-3 April 1958)*; supt, banks
and corporations, El Salvador, 1958-1961; general manager inversiones commerciales,
1961 - present; professor of economics, University of El Salvador, 1958 - present;
commissioner, City of San Salvador, 1964 - present; served to first lieutenant,
Salvadorian Army, 1933-1939; member of American Economists Association,
Association of Salvadorian Economists; home: 83 avenida Norte 619; office; Apartado
Postal 1144, San Salvador, El Salvador.

Who's Who in Commerce and Industry, 1968-1969, page 558.

* Foreign Consular Offices in United States, 1954 through 1959.

---

14-00000

SECRET/RYBAT
Attachment B to HSSW-2742

Suggested Statement to GUTIERREZ

I understand you have a friend named Herbert ITKIN, a lawyer, now living
in New York. Mr. ITKIN is under the protection of United States authorities
because he is the prime witness in very significant legal cases presently pending
before the Federal court in New York City. Mr. ITKIN, in private testimony to
U.S. authorities, has indicated that you were a friend of his; he met you in
New York while you were at the United Nations. He has also indicated that sometime
in 1957 he sent a letter of introduction to you in New Orleans, presenting one
Philip HARBIN whom ITKIN claims did go to New Orleans and introduced himself
to you. Your answers to questions relating to the above would be of great help to
the U.S. Government in determining the veracity of ITKIN's statements.

---

14-00000

SECRET/RYBAT
Attachment C to HSSW-2742

Questions to be presented orally to Luis E, GUTIERREZ

Would you describe the circumstances leading to your introduction to
Mr. Herbert ITKIN and the nature of your contacts with Mr. ITKIN? When did
you first meet Mr. ITKIN? Where were you working at the time? What was
your position?

What school or university were you attending at the time? For what degree
were you preparing? In what subject? What subject did you use for your thesis?
Did you show it to ITKIN and/or did you give him a copy?

Did you continue to maintain contact with him after your departure from
New York? Do you still maintain correspondence with him? When did you last
have contact with Mr. ITKIN?

In 1957 or 1958 did you receive a letter from Mr. ITKIN introducing a
Philip HARBIN?

Did a man named Philip HARBIN come to New Orleans and introduce himself
to you? Did he have a letter of introduction from Mr. ITKIN? (How did he
represent himself, i.e., whom did he represent?) Would you describe Philip
HARBIN? Would you describe your first meeting with Philip HARBIN? What
subjects were covered? How long were contacts maintained? When were they
terminated? For what reason?

SECRET/RYBAT
201-836808

---

14-00000

DR. LUIS E. GUTIERREZ

Attachment E to HSSW-2742
February 26, 1965

Mr. Herbert Itkin,
300 Madison Ave.,
New York City, N.Y.

Dear Herby:

It was a real good surprise to receive your letter of
February 15, 1965. I had written you twice in the last three years,
and I had no answer. I went to New York to the C.I.O. Convention
in September 1963; then I looked for you every where, but I found
you nowhere. So I realized that you had disappeared from New York
and moved to another place. But what a relief now!: You still are
in the Empire State kicking around and thinking about your old
friends.

As you probably remember we do not see each other since
1952. Let me give you a rough briefing on what happens during this
time. In November 1952 I was appointed Consul General of El Salvador
at New Orleans; in 1958 I resigned and came back to my country and
was appointed Comptroller of the Banks Inspecting Bureau; then in
1960 I was appointed General Director of the Social Security Bureau.
Then in 1961 I moved to private business as General Manager of
INVERSIONES COMERCIALES, S.A., a small insurance company. Among some
of my present extra activities, I am: a) member of the City Govern-
ment (City Commissioner); b) member of the Advisory Board of the
Central Bank and c) Professor of Economics and Business Management
at the School of Engineering of the University of El Salvador.

Although, as you can see, I am in the High Brass category
I belong at the same time to the low income bracket group. For that
reason I have been looking for a more juicy business, but so far I
have found nothing. That is why I would say you are just on time
offering me to do some business with you. I hope you will write and
tell me more about what you have in mind. Also I will be waiting for
you in April or any other time; the sooner the better.

There is something else I must tell you. I want to go
back to New York and I need your help very badly. You know that in
order to work in the States one must have a resident visa and to
obtained such visa one must have an affidavit from an American Citi-
zen. Could you be so kind giving me such a help? I hope you will say
YES.

With best regards, I am
Sincerely yours,

---

14-00000

300 Madison Avenue
(14th Floor)
March 2, 1965

Dr. Luis E. Gutierrez
APDO, POSTAL 1144
San Salvador, Central America

Dear Luis:

I will plan to see you in April and will let
you know a few weeks before.

I am sure that we will be able to work out
something together that will be to our mutual benefit
in getting you back to America.

Sincerely yours,
Herbert Itkin

---

14-00000

THE NEW YORK TIMES, SATURDAY, MARCH 9, 1968

U.S. Officials Say Itkin Was an Agent, Reporting to F.B.I.

Figure in Marcus Case Said
to Have Risked Life to
'Stand Up to Mafia'

By BARNARD L. COLLIER

Herbert Itkin, one of six per-
sons indicted in the Marcus
kick-back scandal, has been de-
scribed by Federal officials as
an undercover agent who in-
filtrated the world of organized
crime and reported regularly
to the Federal Bureau of In-
vestigation.

Mr. Itkin, now under 24-
hour armed guard by Federal
marshals, is to be the Govern-
ment's key witness in a Federal
conspiracy case. He is a co-
defendant along with former
Water Commissioner James L.
Marcus; a reputed Mafia leader,
Antonio (Tony Ducks) Corallo;
Henry Fried, owner of a New
York construction company;
Daniel J. Motto, a union leader,
and Charles J. Rappaport, a
former law partner of Mr. Itkin.

Mr. Itkin - called one of the
most important Government in-
formers in recent years - is de-
scribed as having provided un-
dercover information to the
F.B.I. while he engaged in
numerous private business ven-
tures around the world.

There is no solid information
on his motives for becoming an
informer. However, one high
Federal official has called the
41-year-old Manhattan lawyer
a "strange" man who risked
his life to stand up to the
Mafia."

Officials Disclosed
Officials disclosed
Mr. Itkin was providing
Government with large
"inside" information
underworld characters
dealings and is a
potential witness, they say, in
several criminal cases apart
from the Marcus affair.

The cases are said to in-
volve labor racketeering, gam-
bling, bribery, income tax eva-
sion and a whole range of other
crimes at the city, state and
Federal levels, some with inter-
national dimensions.

The story of Mr. Itkin's role
as an undercover agent
pieced together by The
New York Times - and then
confirmed by Government of-
ficials after extensive inter-
views and a search of public
and private documents and
letters in New York, Washing-
ton, the Caribbean area and
elsewhere.

Along with his activities as
an undercover agent, Mr. Itkin
was involved in numerous inter-
national business ventures.
Some of his involvements,
associations and business
dealings - at least those indicat-
ed by the available documents
and by people who are willing
to talk about him - show that
his involvement was not only
with Mafia figures like Corallo
and public figures like Mr.
Marcus, but with politicians in
the Dominican Republic, coup-
minded exiles from Haiti,
businessmen in Miami, union
officials in New York and De-
troit and gamblers in London.

Investigations are already
proceeding on the basis of in-

Continued on Page 15, Column 2

---

14-00000

City Hall by 5 per cent of an emergency
contract awarded without bid-
ding, the Department of
Water Supply, Gas and Elec-
tricity would be paid as a kick-
back.

Government officials declined
to specify when Mayor Lindsay
was a paid or unpaid informer
for the F.B.I.

The contract, estimated at
$500,000, was awarded to S. T.
Grand, Inc., which is owned
by Mr. Fried and his family.
It called for the cleaning and
lining of the Jerome Park
Reservoir area in the Bronx.

The indictment charges that
Mr. Fried and his company
promised Mr. Marcus 2 per cent of
the total contract price. In ad-
dition, Mr. Motto, and Corallo,
it further charges that the
Federal conspiracy began on or about
Jan. 1, eight months before
Mr. Marcus became Water
Commissioner on Sept. 1 and
shortly before Mr. Marcus
awarded the contract to S. T.
Grand.

On Jan. 11 the case took its
bizarre murder twist when the
F.B.I. arrested Mr. Roden on
charges of trying to buy the
silence for $2,000, a Federal
official said then of an un-
identified witness in the Mar-
cus affair.

Four days