```markdown
14-00000
104-10170-10125

[2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

INTERNAL
USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)
Alpha 66 Doings in Los Angeles as of September 1970

FROM: Chief, Los Angeles Office (Alwatson/bas)
DATE: 29 September 1970

EXTENSION
NO.

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)
1. DCS Message Center
2. International Div.
3. K. Hiller
4. OSS

DATE
OFFICER'S
INITIALS
RECEIVED FORWARDED

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

1. Attached obtained from Johnny O'Donnell, free-lance reporter/ writer, who has gained confidence of Alpha 66 members in Los Angeles. Is there any interest in this type of information, as noted in enclosures?

Encls: Alpha 66 Notices of Meetings and Propaganda
History of Alpha 66
Picture of Vicente Mendez
Tape of Meeting/Interview with Los Angeles Leader Miguel Talleda/Press
Interview with Andreas Nazario Sargent, Alpha 66 Secretary General in US.

For retention.

File: O'Donnell, Johnny

INTERNAL
USE ONLY

FORM 34
6-61
USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL
UNCLASSIFIED

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

SPEED LETTER

SECRET
(When Filled In)

TO:
ATTN:
Subject: Alpha 66 Activities in Los Angeles area

DATE:
REPLY REQUESTED

FROM:
LETTER NO.

REFERENCE: Cil and record it, dated 29 Sept 70.

1. Your operations interested in any activities of Alpha 66. They would be particularly interested in Alpha 66 operations connected with our own with collection of additional information. They would also like to be kept up to date as to what is happening with Johnny O'Donnell and his contact with Alpha 66. If you are planning to get additional information, they would like to get it to you to help.

Attachments

FILL 13-1477

SIGNATURE
DATE
REPLY

FORM 3-61
1831

ORIGINATOR'S SUSPENSE

SECRET

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED
CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET

INTERNAL
USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)
Alpha 66 Doings in Los Angeles as of September 1970

FROM: DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE
Operational Support Staff, 900 Key
George S. Musulin - Ext. 2268

DATE: 2 October 1970

EXTENSION
NO.

TO: (Officer designation, room number and building)

DATE
OFFICER'S
INITIALS
RECEIVED FORWARDED

DCS HH-21477

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

1. THRU: DO/DCSL
2. WH/C/OP
3. 3 D 30, Hqs.

3. Attached obtain from Johnny O'Donnell, free-lance reporter/ writer, who has gained confidence of Alpha 66 members in Los Angeles. Is there any interest in this type of information, as noted in enclosures?

Enclosures:
Alpha 66 Notices of Meetings and Propaganda
History of Alpha 66
Picture of Vicente Mendez
Tape of Meeting/Interview with Los Angeles Leader Miguel Talleda/Press
Interview with Andreas Nazario Sargent, Alpha 66 Secretary General in US.

Please advise.

FORM 34
6-61
USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL
INTERNAL
USE ONLY
UNCLASSIFIED

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000

CUBANOS
A LA
GUERRA

"EMPLEARE TODAS MIS ENERGIAS A FIN DE DESEMBARCAR EN TIEMPO PRUDENCIAL EN LA ISLA AMADA"

Capitan Vicente Mendez.-
¡La Promesa se ha Cumplido!

VICENTE MENDEZ Y SUS HOMBRES ESTAN PELEANDO EN CUBA

ALPHA 66 Convoca al Magno acto de INFORMACION DE GUERRA a cargo de ANDRES NAZARIO SARGEN
Secretario General de ALPHA 66

AGOSTO 30 1 p.m.
Embassy Auditorium
GRAND Ave. Y 9th STREET

GIL LOPEZ
PRESIDENTE

!!! AHORRE DINERO!!!!
ALFOMBRAS Y CORTINAS
COMPRE DIRECTAMENTE A LA FABRICA Y

PHONE: 749-5306
749-5307 LOS ANGELES, CA. 90015
1422 W. PICO BLVD.

Almacenes Alamar
Fabricantes en Joyas Finas de Cho K.
Objetos para Regalos Camaras Provectores
Efectos Electricas Televisons Radan
Discos Latines.
CREDITO INMEDIATO

USTED COMPRE EN ALAMAR PARA AHORRAR

TCLFS.
494-0626
494-0636
1906 SET BLVD.
LOS ANGELES CAL.

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000

Las informaciones que llegan de nuestra Patria aseguran un estado intente de rebeldía, actividades de cabotajes violentos y masivos, inconformidad en los libros de las eras armadas, grandes preocupaciones en las esferas del gobierno y un malestar general en el pueblo cubano.

No hay dudas que el Plan de Alpha 66 contribuye en alguna proporción a estos fenómenos. Primero anunciamos el desembarco de Vicente Mendez antes del 31 de diciembre con otros hombres, a pesar de las dificultades conocidas, se cumplió en gran medida la promesa. Mario en el hecho el Capitan Julio Cesar Ramirez.

Sin esperar mucho tiempo, se produjo la gran conmoción Mundial al 17 de Abril con la presencia y los combatientes del Coronel Vicente Mendez y el mayor contingente que llego a tierras cubanas, después de 1961.

En mayo, hombres del Alpha 66 hundieron 2 embarcaciones cubanas e hicieron 11 prisioneros comunistas, repitiendo otra conmoción Mundial que motivo el escandalo esconificado por el traidor Fidel Castro y su mayor derrota moral de los últimos tiempos. El gran triunfo lo consigna el pueblo de Cuba en distintos informes que poseemos de muestras células clandestinas.

Otros movimientos positivos de distintas índoles se produjeron, unos con éxito y otros frustrados por las autoridades norteamericanas; pero en fin todos destinados a golpear duramente al tirano y alentar y respaldar a los hombres de las montañas y los grupos clandestinos que se juegan todos los dias sus vidas en aras de la libertad.

Con estos antecedentes de gran valor y valides, amén de mas de 20 acciones comandos y de infiltraciones realizadas por nuestros mas destacados hombres y por una pleyade de patriotas que combatieron y combaten en todos los frentes de la nación cubana, nos sentimos moralmente respaldados para promover un llamamiento general a los cubanos de la Isla a los cubanos del dustierro, a la guerra libertadora. No pretendemos convertirnos en sectaristas, sino que cada cual que empuña el arma que tenga, la actividad que sea compatible a sus posibilidades, la colaboración económica y el apoyo moral, a los que combaten y sobre todo, a los que en la Isla dan la pauta y llevan el mayor peso en la contienda. Sin demora tenemos que acometer acciones vitales para que éste gran momento histórico ciaje en la liberación definitiva de Cuba.

Además de coordinar las cuestiones internas con otros grupos clandestinos, Alpha 66 esta distrubuyendo cientos de millares de pequeños panfleticos convidando a las milicias, al Ejercito Rebelde y al pueblo a participar de la contienda en contra del Castro-Comunismo. Todos los cubanos que deseen cooperar a este amamiento pueden pasar por muestras oficinas para entregarles el material que deben enviar a Cuba. Cada cubano puede servir de puente entre los de dentro y de fuera.

Por último, demandamos de todos los cubanos y de las organizaciones que paremos de las palabras a los hechos. Que las disputas, las divisiones y las querellas infecundis se eliminen y se convierta cada uno en un esforzado militante de la causa cubana. Lo requieren los hombres y mujeres que en las cárceles sostienen la gallarda rebeldía nacional, los combatientes de todos los frentes y el pueblo enclavizado. Pongamos la tragedia de nuestro pueblo por encima de merginos intereses y daños cada cubano un impulso y el apoyo moral guerrero a la epopeya libertadora. De este modo podemos regresar a nuestra Patria con la frente limpia y el corazón henchido de orgullo porque supimos conquistar el derecho a ter libres.

Fdo. EJECUTIVO NACIONAL "ALPHA 66"

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000

VICENTE
VIVO
EN CUBA

ALPHA 66 INFORMA:

Reportes que nos llegan desde nuestras células militantes dentro de Cuba, determinan que las acciones iniciadas por nuestra Organización, que en una de sus etapas culminó con el desembarco del Coronel Vicente Mendez el 17 de Abril en Oriente, estan teniendo repercusión en otras provincias de la isla.

No es sólo en Oriente donde las fuerzas internas han respondido al estímulo exterior representado por las acciones de Alpha 66; en Camagüey, por ejemplo, se han producido reiterados brotes de rebeldía traducidos en sabotajes, resistencia y en algunos casos enfrentamiento directo con el régimen.

La situación en Oriente, desde luego, es la que revela con mayor claridad la decisión del pueblo cubano de sacudirse el yugo que lo oprime. A tal extremo que los propios medios de publicidad del Gobierno comunista de Cuba han tenido que informar sobre "grandes concentraciones de las Fuerzas Armadas", en esos sectores se debe a movilizaciones para incrementar la producción", cuando lo cierto es que la fracasada zafra de los 10 millones, ya prácticamente ha terminado.

Las movilizaciones no han tenido otro objeto, según los reportes que hemos recibido, que frenar la ola de deserciones que se han venido produciendo en las filas de las Fuerzas Armadas y cubrir territorios en los que actúan eficazmente los patriotas cubanos.

Que el régimen de Castro está consciente de la gravedad del momento lo demuestra entre otras cosas, la intensa purga que se está llevando a cabo en las más altas esferas del Gobierno, y que comparan con la cesantía fulminante de José Llamed, como Ministro de Educación y Francisco ladron, como Ministro de in Industria Azucarera. Los desplazamientos de distintos elementos de les importantes cargos que venían ocupando continúan especialmente en los "Estados Mayores" de ins Fuerzas Armadas. A tal extremo, de que se da por segura la destitución del Comandante Guillermo Garef Frias, Jefe del Partido Comunista en la provincia de Oriente, quien ha caído en "Desgracia" debido a su importancia para contener a les invasores de Alpha 66 y a los elementos que en és provincia se han sumado a las acciones.

Este estado de cosas ha llegado a tal situación explosiva, que se esperan en el curso de lo que resta de éste mes importantes acontecimientos que daran un giro favorable a la rebeldía cubana frente al régimen despótico que ocupa el poder.

Ese es en síntesis, el resumen de los informes que hemos recibido donde figuran datos aún más concretes que de revelarse pormenorizadamente, pudieran acarrear graves peligros a elementos que actúan activamente en esas dos provincias mencionadas.

Fdo. EJECUTIVO NACIONAL "ALPHA 66"

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000

Vicente Mendez has publicly commit- ted himself, and given his word that he will be fighting in Cuba in the next months to come, in a very active letter addressed to the National Coun- cil of all of this Independence - trans (in exile) formally pledged himself to the nation and the people in exile by his answer to face all than respon- sibility of the way the Cuban mail. He goes on telling them in a letter full of cour- age that he will face all the cc-

COLETIN MENSUAL
ARGANO OFICIAL DEL "CIRCULO COINLAD
DE LOS ANGELES CALIFORNIA E. U. A.

"A NEW HOPE"
UNA NUEVA
ESPERANZA
Por Estelion l'ramming Gener

Un

rad big sine daer planét ta Can Mis! * 4:1
Zinor. the.

ementing on In Cursaal grumbl.. Vicente Mondo in unly komen in nie ainst Castro but he he nev usted in seeing his name in th or cacuming the leadship of has always chosen to be unlinan, ting that soon will go hk it in mucusunry 11 dican a to help for the free of duen kno is een in, and his marits and y for in life. Main Wine unlerin teach the ita miayne to Night craint the Sypany of field. Gly 5, 1950 the theme of Comunion in the Revolution that helps Fuch. na lubal Humaquarter of firmajuani in t en Pruvince map token by Wil mi his follower, ay all the the bay Domthing str Peacht for leven long months. iri.

Jut .::

--- Page 8 ---

14-00000

Latin America Report
Offices: 721 National Press Building, Washington D.C. 20004 Phone: 783-7507
Editorial: 301 Langford Building, 121 S. Street Miami, FL 33131
Editor: Paul D. Bethel
Phone: 373-0631.
Vol. 8 No. 7 - July, 1970

Latins Want U.S. Help in Ousting Castro

At least six Latin countries want to dump the Red tyrant, but are hampered by Bento's 'non-policy' toward Cuba.

By PAUL BETHEL

On April 17 (the anniversary of the 1961 Bay of Pigs fiasco) the Cuban exile military organization Alpha-66 landed 13 commandos on the east coast of Cuba. They allegedly were captured, but if so only after Fidel Castro threw an estimated 25,000 troops into the fray. Castro lost several men as well.

Then on May 6, Alpha-66 "naval units" sank, in Cuban waters, two of Castro's high-seas fishing trawlers (used, as well, for spying and infiltrating guerrillas into Latin America).

These two actions set off a chain of events in Washington that would have done credit to the LBJ and JFK Administrations. With Castro massing his mobs for a circus of protest, the State Department hit the panic button and on May 13 called together representatives of federal law enforcement agencies to figure out ways to protect Castro from further forays of this nature.

What really teed-off the State Department was a momentary aberration by Alpha-66 to trade crew members of the fishing vessels for the freedom of survivors of the April 17 landing. They soon thought better of it and sent a telegram to the Red Cross giving the location of the men and asking that they be returned to Cuba.

'CIA Invasion'

Meanwhile, Castro staged a demonstration in front of the former U.S. Embassy in Havana, which is now being used by the Swiss government. He charged the Swiss, who represent U.S. interests in Cuba, with complicity in what he called a "CIA invasion" by mercenaries.

Coast Guard Exhibits Arms Taken From Alpha-66. Exiles Say They Were interested In International Waters.

Two Swiss employees were pre- vented from leaving the embassy for two days. The strategy was to mount Swiss pressure Washington to crack down on the Cuban exiles. It worked, and the State Department again danced to a Castro tune.

The demonstration was also used to "welcome" the returning fishermen, who were soon to the airport in Havana. But the fishermen were late in arriving. They were late due to an unforeseen need to change clothing. When Alpha- 66 rescued the fishermen from the sinking vessels (otherwise Castro would have had them shot as he has ordered the shooting of thousands seeking to leave his island in small boats), they found them literally in rags.

Shoes were patched with palm bark; shirts and trousers were in tatters. So, before setting them free, Alpha-66 pro- vided the men with shoes and new cloth- ing. When the men arrived at the airport in Havana, they were divested of their new goodies and forced to don old worn clothing. Some, we are told, protested vehemently.

The bearded dictator took the occasion of the "welcome" extended fishermen to announce that the 10-mil- lion-ton sugar harvest was a failure. Despite closing down factories, schools and offices and marching the people out to the fields, the harvest on which Castro had placed "the honor of the Revolution" failed to materialize. In 1952, 350,000 guajiros cut and ground 7.3 million tons in 100 days; Castro had twice that many working and pro- duced about 3.5 million tons in 300 days).

Back in Miami, federal agents acting on State Department interpretation of antiquated neutrality laws entered Alpha- 66 headquarters. The search warrant alleged that there was evidence that 1) Alpha-66 had launched its attacks from U.S. territory; 2) Cubans were

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000

Back in Miami, federal agents acting on State Department interpretation of antiquated neutrality laws entered Alpha-66 headquarters. The search warrant alleged that there was evidence that 1) Alpha-66 had launched its attacks from U.S. territory; 2) Cubans were raising funds illegally for bellicose purposes; and 3) all of this was being done to attack a nation with which the U.S. is "at peace, to wit: Cuba."

Of the 37 items impounded, those of military significance were "one large carton filled with military-type web equipment...one military-type field pack...and one large cardboard carton filled with plastic military-type canteens." With such evidence, Army- Navy surplus stores could be indicted.

Greater attention was given to files containing the names of contributors. These held special interest because the wording in the warrant found "financial contributions and disbursements to obtain boats and other supplies" possibly prosecutable.

Can the State Department be serious? If this section of the law were applied Impartially, how many Jews would today be under indictment for openly soliciting funds for the purchase of bellicose materials for a foreign nation-Israel?

How many senators and congressmen would today have egg on their faces for participating in fund-raising functions, publicly organized and propagandized, for that very purpose? That is how the Cuban community sees the matter.

This author has no particular objection to fund-raising by Jewish groups in the United States. Cuban exiles certainly do not. Indeed, Cuban Jews in exile have contributed substantially to Israel's war chest. They are furious when they, as Cubans, try to do the same for the liberation of their country, only to find a double standard shed against them. Nor are they happy to see their contributions go down the drain when overzealous federal officials seize equipment belonging to exile groups.

But what blew it for Miami's 350,000 Cubans was an "edict" read to them by the hapless State Department representative in Miami.

According to the heads of exile action groups called to his office, the representative stressed that "the spirit as well as the law" will be upheld. He is said to have told them that fund-raising for a bellicose purpose is definitely outside the law and warned them not only could they be prosecuted should they launch an attack from the U.S., but would also be stopped from using another Latin American country for that purpose.

The exact wording in the in teeth from the State Department read: "I would like to make it clear that if there is sufficient evidence of activity based in the U.S. for any such military expedition, then the fact that a third country is used as a staging area would not preclude the U.S. from proceeding to enforce its laws."

When the story of State Department policy hit the streets, the Cubans exploded. Cuban students from the University of Miami and Dade Junior College (Dade's 20,010 students comprise 8,000 Cuban students) marched on the Federal Building; 650 Cuban lawyers challenged the validity of the State Department position; doctors, dentists, educators, professional groups-57 of them published a lengthy statement in the Diario las Américas newspaper.

Part of that statement reads: "Title 18, Section 960 of the U.S. Code (invoked against Alpha] prohibits certain actions from being taken against a nation with which the United States is at peace- fried by nation."

Clearly, Fidel Castro is not at peace with the United States or nations of the Western Hemisphere and, by breaking diplomatic relations with Cuba on Jan. 3, 1961, the United States recognized that Cuba is hardly a friendly nation.

REMINDER: We still have nearly 700 school libraries to go in filling out commit - ment to them for the fall. If you have a contributed in 1970, please do so now. Each of you have received, a pre- paid envelope. Place your contribution in and mail today! Time is getting hot.

"We conclude," the signatories said, "that this part of the neutrality laws cannot be applied against Cubans who are fighting for freedom.".

Sen. Strom Thurmond (R.A.C.) and Rep. William C. Cramer (R.-Fl.) strongly support the Cuban exiles in their interpretation of the law.

The most recent law outlining U.S. policy toward Cuba was promulgated and signed by President Kennedy on Oct. 3, 1962, it states that the United States is "to work with the Organization of American States and with freedom loving Cubans to support the aspirations of the Cuban people for self-determination. Furthermore, the United States is signatory to four inter-American pacts and treaties which clearly are designed to combat Fidel Castro's Communist regime.

In many areas, this most recent situation by the Department of State has relations between Cuban exiles and their lowest ebb since the Bay of Pigs failure nine years ago. Cubans are now thoroughly convinced that the State Depart- ment is out to "get" them and willing to employ any subterfuge to do so.

One of these subterfuges, say the exiles, is a recent indictment against Andrés Nazario Sargen, head of Alpha-66. Sargen is charged with having "conspired to purchase arms allegedly stolen from a U.S. arsenal in Connecticut. His bail was set at $160,000, then inexplicably reduced to a mere $2,500 and Sargen asked to plead guilty to be let off on a light sentence.

These shenanigans, say the Cubans, mean that lacking proof that Alpha- 66 launched its attacks from U.S. soil, the government will use other means to intimidate exile action groups, Legal action taken against Sargen, they argue, is simply the caper-beaverism on the part of what they believe to be pro-Castro functionaries in the Department of State.

On the other hand, the Department of State has its case. Many officials are only slightly less enthusiastic than Cuban exiles to see the end of Castro's Communist regime. But they argue that the half measures taken by Cuban exile groups are not effective and merely serve to embarrass the United States, Others claim that the Alpha-66 attacks were merely ill-timed, providing Castro with an "excuse" to lay the failure of his sugar crop at the feet of "CIA operatives" based in the United States.

As to this latter claim, those who know Fidel Castro also know that he needs no excuse to gather the mobs and denounce the United States. The history of his 10 years in power bears full witness to the truth of this view.

Viable Policy

What really comes through in all of this is that Washington has yet to come up with a viable policy toward Fidel Castro to put a stop to his subverting Latin America and even the United States. The only absolute factor in the conduct of foreign affairs is the premium placed on initiative. We don't have it; Castro does.

The State Department cannot merely "wish" Castro out of power, and its policy of "economic denial and diplo-

--- Page 10 ---

14-00000

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-Extensions of Remarks
detonation of foreign detente
international disputes poses a serious
if the firing practice could be taken
the year.
May 20, 1970
At the city hall in is the practical difference between and
Havana and Castro. On that es with Barach on the cross
12 and let gas with missiles
date babe country
now anchored in Cuba".
Most America bout to inter
First, review by the Secretary of
fat disputes in which then of bottle lap which made the es
er a part of our he
to a certain which ones, or poter of the
me and there to arbitration
ore, Amkow that
come intered on behalf of the
gotiation W. this review inter
Pete, we
sudurre that the rated
Cuban people
for
den
trono
3.
Unfortunately, however, mest er!
cans ar ties totally aware of the vacant
fsht put up by the Cuban perde, alone
and as Asted, for nearly century.
me to take the disputes that are def;
mined to be juntable to the Internadin
Cart of Justice or other appropriate inf
national tribunals.
Send, the easplosment of the prostija
of Article 4 of 11.4 United Nature Chart
to seek advisory opinions of the Welt cult
by the United Nations and the UN
tret Agencies on lanes where ruch, an eph
would help to clarify the legal a perts a
argute
Thiri, the Instructing of US nepote
torek ton of a proton in rates
treaties and agreements which provides f
the World Couth adjudication of di pate
arising under there treaties and retent
We believe that there stee
they sera, would the favorably reed by 11.
International community and lead to st
enhanced regard for the rule of law through
out the
wurtid.
As Meraters of Congress for Prace Throug
Law, we have deveted consideratie me ni
attention to this question and have
the advice of skilled international
outside the Couples.
s
eyes
Wo weleme your comments and renɖ-
tions to these suggestions and wou the
peated to discuss them in greater deta
with you or with inembers of your Admini
tration
-
TAKT SIGNERA
Renators Toward W. Brooke, Alan Gran
ston, Charlen h. Gradell, Philip A. He
Mark O. Habel, Harold E. Hughes, Gale W
Merge McGovern, Lee Metent
Walter P. Mondale, Frank H. Moralert w
15
Packw
Corne Pet,
Fetzer, D. Talag, Harrison A
Will Jr., and Stephen A. Young.
Cougrenagen Thomas Ashley, Jonath
Ingham, Edward P. Se urnari
Jen rodemin. George E. H
Jr. Daniel E. Hon. Svo O. Cate,
Conyers, J, James C. Corman, John
lenback, Tb Eekh. get, Don Edwards, Joch
The Cubusia 20-year warta
1955 to INTS against a power Spanish
Army. They have consistently
freestom trou oppression and their battle
for endence from 1955 to 1892 found
the thurst States a thung clomide ni
them.
But we cannot farist that the Cuisans
so loved iberty that the munter of
castnities in their two wars of indepera.
ence mounted to a quarter of a mathon
people. The total population of the island
at that time was less that million
What this means is that one out of
every four Cabins game casualties in
their quest for herty:
It
shameful to say that the United
States seems to have turned back an
Cuba when it is suffering from the in
position et an ather forein tyranny, -
ternational commum headed by the
Soviet Union. Yet, State Department
spokesman Robert McClosky, a holdover
bureauerat, threatens freedom #abies
who wish to return and help their broth-
ers throw off the roof this tyranny.
My colicame, Senator So
MOND, has already bught this to theat
teation of the Senate. It is thy wish to
bring it to the attention of say colleagues
in the House of Representatives and the
American public.
amount of rabotage being com
mitted by Cub Inside Cuba is in line
with the tradition of its people. Just as
few days ago, on May 15, the Castro re-
gle announced the exccution by g
squad a campesino wao bartied down
warchet fola de Saria.
po lived in Cuba and give his
exchange for the destruction of
at sinar.
Paul Piley. Dont 3. and
Peter Breen, Cerneil
her, Jaubert, Wala J. Gireesh
Gibert Gude. ཐ tour Miles
Harington, Will the
P. Hawkins, hey feltecki, Robert W
rings Keith ward
L egret, Lichard
PX. Meckliner 3. MINYA
Pay Mink, Willon, P.
Jahn
M
Chart A. ther
2,000
From all over Cuba come oinetal ad-
mattor that the Cupan people are in
msive stance to the Communist re-
name of Molded Cuatro,
It is fant toy that today tones to
Ctro and conmany time
Chat tite
Pieter
resistamer wich
E. Mes, Iter Opere Pep-
17.
train 1. Pell, Thomas Rees, g
e. Wen
Tential de pin to pow. 1959 Yet, Calen
P. Ryan, J Scheuer, Wam .. it.
One tank.
John V. Tunner, and M..
CUBAN INDEPENDENCE DAY
.
HON. WILLIAM C. CRAMER
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOOE OP REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 20, 1970
Mr. CHAMER Mr. Speaker, May 20 is
a very spend day for Cubans and Amar-
weans. On that date in 1902, the thiban
freedom hters in exile an repeated
when their only purpose is to help the
fellow man ram the liity for which
250.000 Cubans fought and were wounded
ove their ves
it is no set that our intelligence
community fears that the Soviet Union
new prepared to estabatch a Caribbean
Bad in Cuba, and wirely this fact
relate to our own reunity. I say that
etal effort to prefect Fidel Castro by
2.mmen freedom fighters are dang
ous and nonien real
•
True, the State Department appres
head Cuban exttes on the grounds that
Hay from the United States are in
violation of our neutrality laws. But 1
would like to cite an interpretation of
thase nrutality laws as rendered Ly the
late Robeit Kennedy when he was Atter
ney General of the United States.
Is rulag was that the neutrality lay
were, and I quote:
Ammon het law in mir statutes
The were not desmed for the kind
of actuation which exist the world tod y
The the Attorney General continued
and I quate from las April 20, 1961
rulme:
The newre never designed
to preventual fron leaving the
United States to drht for a cause in which
they believe. There is nothing in the neatral
the laws at prevents res from
arem return to that nistry to encare :
the ght ter frestem, nor is an individua
pro form the United States, with
others of like better, to in others in a sever
ond country for an expeatuon agatust a thud
country.
I believe that rubing not only is just
but also was made in the cause of our
cwn security Unfortunately. It has beer
all but formatten by cur State Deporte
ment which eanges harars Cabar
exiter and even instructs the US Cast
Guard to prehend freedom fahters on
the high sea a term of ometal piracy. 1
macht add.
In conclu en, I would like to ta
lastre that Cuba is little more than a
Soviet base dedicated to the destructica
of our socacy, and that of free tart
everywhere. I should he to rapha
that our free inextricably inte
woven with the freedom of the Calat
people. The camous presence of th
powerful Sovet Beet br just off our
shores under-cores this fact.
KSU STORY ONE-SIDED IN TV
REPORTING
HON. DONALD E. LUKENS
F
IN THE HOUSE OF PRESENTATIVE
Wesday, May 20, 1970
I should to this question: Is Mr. LUKEN Mr. Speaker, the event
it not in our own national interest that at Kent State are trante enough withou
Cul te frd from domination bingenions around and ranque
country and times more power based news coverage day eve
than the Spuntariis of the 19th century? Jen antele whiared in the Cleve
Is not the pretesen of a fret of Stein Dealer, S7, by Mr. Wil
Navy ships tree in Cienfiers Har
Ham Hickey, watch ilustrates the ir
bor rose a threat to er own national resonate reporting of the deaths a
Nent State.
security?
Arson thise ships are a mille fans
cruber and an atomite submate. What
Mr. He who is a TV and radi
critic for the paper as well equipped &
2

--- Page 11 ---

14-00000

Alpha 66 Doings in Los Angeles as of September 1970

DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE
Operational Support Staff, 900 Key
George S. Musulin - Ext. 2268

DCS HH-21477
2 October 1970

THRU: DO/DCBL
WH/C/OP
3 D 30, Hqs.

3. Attached obtain from Johnny O'Donnell, free-lance reporter/ writer, who has gained confidence of Alpha 66 members in Los Angeles. Is there any interest in this type of information, as noted in enclosures?

Enclosures:
Alpha 66 Notices of Meetings and Propaganda
History of Alpha 66
Picture of Vicente Mendez
Tape of Meeting/Interview with Los Angeles Leader Miguel Talleda/Press
Interview with Andreas Nazario Sargent, Alpha 66 Secretary General in US.

Please advise.

--- Page 12 ---

14-00000

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY 1962 EDITION
GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum

TO: Director, DCS
ATTN: OSS (Musulin)

DATE: 16 October 1970

FROM: Chief, Los Angeles Office

SUBJECT: Alpha 66 Activities in Los Angeles Area

REF.: Your Speed Letter of 6 Oct 70, Same Subject

1. In a 13 Oct 70 interview with Johnny O'Donnell, free-lance reporter, he made the following information available regarding subject matter: The head man is Miguel Talleda, who is employed as an accountant at Hammer of California, Gardena. He has four daughters, two sons, and his wife baby-sits for neighbors in order to earn extra money. He receives about $1,000 a month. Talleda appears to be honest, hard-working, well disciplined and well organized, not overly emotional, strongly anti-Communist and anti-Castro. According to the Los Angeles Police Department, he has a P.O. Box in his name in Alhambra. The No. 2 man is Nextor Aranguren, also an accountant. He lives in Alhambra, and is believed to be the "bag man" who handles all money collected