14-00000
104-10185-10244

[2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

TO BE OPENED BY ADDRESSEE ONLY
SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH Division
ATTENTION: Leonard Libby, WH/SA/CI
THRU: Mr. Walter Richardson
FROM: Deputy Director of Security (Investigations and Operational Support).
SUBJECT: COVERT SITE
DATE: 26 JUN 1964

1. Reference is made to your memorandum dated 19 May 1964 to the Chief, Safehouse Procurement Branch, Office of Logistics. This memorandum requested the procurement of a safehouse to be occupied by a Latin American. The safehouse was to be located in the Bethesda, Maryland area.

2. This will confirm verbal security approval provided the Safehouse Procurement Branch by this office for the use of the Subject Covert Site. Forwarded herewith is a report dated 18 June 1964 of the security survey conducted on the Subject premises. Your attention is directed to Section VI on Page 2 of this report which lists possible security hazards. This is brought to your attention so that you will be able to take appropriate action to prevent any compromise of activities at the Subject Covert Site.

3. For your information a search of Office of Security Indices in the names of the individuals listed in the attached report has failed to reveal any additional noteworthy or derogatory information identifiable with them.

4. Under no circumstances may classified material be stored in the Subject Covert Site. In addition, the Subject Covert Site may not be loaned to or utilized by another component of the Agency without the prior concurrence of the Central Cover Staff, the Safehouse Procurement Branch, Office of Logistics and this office.

5. It is requested that the attached report be returned to this office in a sealed envelope marked, "To Be Opened By Addressee Only" when your office has no further need for it.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

Victor R. White

Attachment:
Report dated 18 June 1964.

cc: Central Cover Staff
Safehouse Procurement Branch

SECRET

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000.
SECRET

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000
SECRET

OFFICE OF SECURITY
Support Division

REPORT
OF
INVESTIGATION

CONSISTING OF
REPORTS

SECRET

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000
FILE NO. 183 503
DATE
REPORT NO. 1125

SECRET

SYNOPSIS

The SUBJECT SITE is located in the east wing on the ground floor of an apartment building located at 5500 16th Street. The building is located in a large apartment development, known as Summit Hills Apartments, and is located a short distance off of 16th Street, a Washington thoroughfare, and East-West Highway (Route 410). Transportation and personal service facilities are readily available. Telephone service is on an individual subscriber basis. Fire and police protection are adequate. The only possible security hazard noted for SUBJECT SITE is the proximity of SUBJECT SITE's windows to possible penetration from automobiles parked in an adjacent parking lot and people located at ground level on the outside of the SUBJECT SITE. Biographical data on the occupants of two apartments in the SUBJECT SITE building are contained in the report.

--- Page 5 ---

II. DESCRIPTION OF AREA

The SUBJECT SITE building is located in a modern, middle-class apartment development known as Summit Hills Apartments which is located along a major thoroughfare of Washington, D.C., 16th Street and Route 410, East-West Highway. The SUBJECT SITE building is located in Montgomery County, Maryland. To the south of the SUBJECT SITE is another apartment building known as 5500 16th Street (Summit Hills Apartments) which is located approximately fifty yards south of the SUBJECT SITE building. To the west and north of the 5500 16th Street and SUBJECT SITE building is located a large parking lot.

Access to this parking lot, which is parallel to the east wing of the SUBJECT SITE BUILDING, can be gained from either East-West Highway (Route 410) by proceeding in a westerly direction or from 16th Street, a divided highway, which allows entrance to the parking lot to southbound vehicles only. To the west and north of SUBJECT SITE building are additional apartment buildings and parking areas. To the east of SUBJECT SITE building is 16th Street.

SUBJECT SITE building is laid out in the form of a cross with wings extending north, south, east and west. SUBJECT SITE is located in the extreme southeast corner of the east wing of SUBJECT SITE Building. D.C. Transit bus service is available along East-West Highway and at the parking lot located in close proximity to SUBJECT SITE. There is a bus stop for D.C. Transit. This parking lot is located directly north of the east wing of SUBJECT SITE building. Taxi cab service is also available. Complete personal services are located approximately 1/2 mile away in Silver Spring, Maryland. A bulk of parking area for automobiles surrounds the SUBJECT SITE building.

III. DESCRIPTION OF SITE

No interior inspection of the SUBJECT SITE was conducted. SUBJECT SITE may be entered either from the main entrance located midway on the south side of the east wing of the SUBJECT SITE building.

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000

SECRET

SUBJECT SITE is located on the ground level of the SUBJECT SITE building. Two elevators are located at the rear of the lobby and a stairway to all floors of SUBJECT SITE building is located at the extreme east end of the east wing.

IV. COMMUNICATION SYSTEM

Telephone service is provided by Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone Company on an individual subscriber basis.

V. FIRE AND POLICE PROTECTION

Police protection is afforded by the Montgomery County Police Department which has a substation located on Georgia Avenue in Silver Spring, Maryland. Fire protection is afforded by the Silver Spring Fire Department.

VI. POSSIBLE SECURITY HAZARDS.

SUBJECT SITE is located on the ground floor of SUBJECT SITE building (below ground level) and, thus, SUBJECT SITE's windows are at ground level. Visual and technical penetration may be possible from the land area surrounding SUBJECT SITE building and from the parking lot located approximately fifteen yards to the south of SUBJECT SITE building and SUBJECT SITE. No other security hazards were noted and the closest building to SUBJECT SITE building is approximately fifty yards away.

VII. OUTLINE OF EXHIBITS

Exhibit A - diagram depicting SUBJECT SITE building and area surrounding it.

Exhibit B - diagram of ground level floor of SUBJECT SITE building.

VIII. BIOGRAPHICAL DATA

Apartment G10. This apartment is occupied by one (Daniel R. SCHRIER) born 1922 in Maryland and married to Joan (SCHRIER). He has been employed for 10 years as an investigator by Paul M. SACHS, 520 Connecticut Avenue, NW, who is further described by credit sources as an attorney specializing in investments.

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000

described by credit sources as an attorney specializing in investments/securities. Additional information indicates that (SCHRIER) was previously employed by the General G-Shop. No detrimental credit information, police information, or House Committee on Un-American Activities records were reflected in the name of (SCHRIER) or his wife.

Apartment 118 (located directly over SUBJECT SITE)

This apartment is the residence of (Esther JOLLES), white female born December 1892 in Russia and her daughter (Mildred JOLLES), white female for whom two dates of birth are listed: (7 May 1914) and (8 March 1917), born New York. (Esther JOLLES) is the widow of (Joseph T. JOLLES) of whom Montgomery County Health Department records reflected died of natural causes on 22 June 1960. (JOLLES) was formerly the president of the Maryland Belt Parkway Development, Inc., Silver Spring, Maryland, and the North Portal Construction Company. A previous address of 5030 15th Street, NW is reflected for (Joseph T. JOLLES), (Mildred JOLLES) and (Esther JOLLES).

Immigration and Naturalization records reflected that (Esther JOLLES) received a certificate of citizenship through derivative means of her father. Her Immigration and Naturalization file derivative number (A-202705), alien number (6215772) is located in Baltimore, Maryland. (Esther JOLLES) is employed as a homemaker. Credit sources reflect a credit rating ranging from poor to satisfactory in the name of (Joseph T.) and (Esther JOLLES).

(Mildred JOLLES), daughter of (Esther JOLLES) is employed as an analyst by the Quartermaster Corps, Department of the Army, Pentagon. An additional address of Second and D Streets SW is also reflected for (Mildred JOLLES) employment. (Mildred JOLLES) came to Washington from New York on 31 August 1942, is single, and has no dependents. Credit sources reflect poor to satisfactory credit rating in the name of (Mildred JOLLES). No record for either (Mildred JOLLES) or (Esther JOLLES) was reflected at appropriate police agencies and the House Committee on Un-American Activities.

SECRET
