```markdown
14-00000
104-10215-10212

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH
SECRET

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
Chief, European Division
Chief of Station, WH/Miami
Chief of Station, Madrid
Operational Information on Dr. Jose Angel Bustamante O'Leary, Psychiatrist (201-022396)
Cuban Medical Personalities, Pro and Anti-Castro

References:
A. MADRID 0937 FM 6037 F2.
B. WH/MIAMI 7277 in 068952
C. DIRECTOR 029809

1. The following was prepared by a staff employee.

2. The information below was acquired through interrogation of CC-4276, Mario Enrique Eugenio MARTINEZ Delgado, M.D., a Cuban refugee and former resident of Havana City who left Cuba on 22 December 1969. Subsource is a medical doctor who was employed at Havana Psychiatric Hospital (Mazorra) from 1959 to December 1969.

a. Dr. Jose Angel BUSTAMANTE O'Leary (201-022396), Psychiatrist, studied medicine at Havana University in the same class as subsource's father-in-law, Dr. Enrique CASUSO Casuso, M.D., employed as an orthopedic surgeon at the Havana Psychiatric Hospital. According to subsource's father-in-law, Subject was very active politically during his university studies; he belonged to the Student Left Wing (Ala Izquierda Estudiantil) at Havana University, which organization followed PSP directives. When Subject had completed his medical studies, he directed his political activities at the National Medical College and controlled the College for several years prior to 1959, during which years he was able to select the presidents of the College.

Distribution:
2 - C/WHD
2 - C/EUR
2 - COS, WH/Miami

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
OSMA 26227
DATE
20 May 1970
HOS FILE NUMBER
65-6-38/4
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

14-00000
CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH SECRET OSMA 26227

b. Subject is President or Director of the Neurophysiology Institute (formerly Higher Nervous Activity Institute), Academy of Sciences; subsource thinks that Subject is also Professor of Medical Psychology at Havana University. Subject is a very well trained psychiatrist and has always enjoyed great prestige as such; nevertheless, he has always been reputed to have very low morals, and in medical circles is "famous" as a woman chaser. He is widely reputed to attempt to seduce his female patients and his colleagues' wives. Major Bernabe ORDAZ, Director of Havana Psychiatric Hospital, considers Subject to be a vulgar political schemer utterly lacking in personal prestige among Cuban "new" Communists; Ordaz has stated that he considers that Subject wants to control Cuban psychiatric practice for his own personal benefit.

c. When Castro took power, Subject surprisingly abandoned the Immediate Action medical doctors' party and joined the recently organized Revolutionary Medical Party; Ordaz did not join this party until 1960. In medical circles, Subject is reputed to collaborate with the DSE in brain-washing activities, but subsource had never seen any direct indications of such collaboration.

d. Dr. Armando DE CORDOVA, Psychiatrist, employed as a professor at Havana University, is a good psychiatrist about 70 years old who has always been a leftist but is not the type of immoral person that Bustamante is. De Cordoba and Bustamante travel together to almost all the psychiatric congresses held abroad; according to Major Bernabe Ordaz, the two of them would like to take over the Havana Psychiatric Hospital, and base their desire on the fact that Ordaz is not a psychiatrist. In subsource's opinion, they will never be successful in replacing Ordaz, because Ordaz enjoys the backing of both Fidel Castro and Celia Sanchez, who are good friends of his.

e. Subsource has known a Dr. Edmundo GUTIERREZ Agramonte, Psychiatrist, since 1959; Gutierrez is Director of the magazine of Havana Psychiatric Hospital and attends psychiatric congresses held abroad. He is a competent psychiatrist and has an office located on Calle 23, corner of Calle 18, Vedado, Havana City. In subsource's opinion, he is antiregime although he speaks in favor of the regime when with proregime persons, and against the regime when with antiregime persons. He does not belong to the PCC cell at the hospital and is not a militiaman. In an assembly held at the hospital in 1969 with the express purpose of increasing the number of members of the PCC cell, no one proposed Gutierrez as a possible aspirant. Gutierrez is about 50 years old and was married about February 1969.

14-00000
CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH SECRET OSMA 26227

f. Dr. MIGNAGARAY, whose first name subsource thinks is Ruben, worked at Havana Psychiatric Hospital (formerly Mazorra) prior to 1959. He is proregime but not an extremist, and does not appear to be "willing to die for the regime". Mignagaray was proposed as an aspirant to the PCC cell at the Hospital, in an assembly held in 1969, but stated that he had a defect consisting in the fact that he was in love. Subsource did not know whether he was accepted as an aspirant. In mid-December 1969, Dr. Cristino Cabello, employed as a psychiatrist at Havana Psychiatric Hospital, told subsource that Mignagaray had told him that he (Cabello) would have to take over Mignigaray's ward because he was going abroad to attend a psychiatric congress; subsource could give no further information on the congress or Mignagaray's date of departure. Mignagaray is described as a light-skinned mulatto, about 5'9" tall, weight about 160 pounds, 60-65 years old, brown eyes, greying hair, married; subsource thought he had three children.

g. Dr. Lino Bernabe FERNANDEZ Martinez, Psychiatrist, joined the anti-Castro counterrevolutionary forces in the Escambray mountains a few months before the Playa Giron invasion; he was arrested shortly before said invasion and sentenced to 30 years in prison. Subsource had met him when both were students at Belen High School; their friendship continued at Havana University, when both were members of the Havana University Catholic Group, and later as members of the Movement for the Recuperation of the Revolution (MRR). Subsource took leave of Fernandez the day that the latter joined the anti-Castro counterrevolutionaries, and never saw him again. When subsource visited his brother-in-law, Enrique Casuso, held first on the Isle of Pines, then at La Cabana and later at the Guanajay Jail, he habitually asked for news of Dr. Fernandez; the information he received made him believe that Fernandez is one of the most respected prisoners because of his bravery and equilibrium. Fernandez was mentioned as an example of integrity. Other prisoners such as Dr. Andres CAO, Juan BUSTAMANTE and Antonio GARCIA told subsource that Fernandez' attitude had not varied. Fernandez' wife, Emilia LUZARRAGA, who frequently visited subsource professionally (subsource was her psychiatrist), also told subsource that Fernandez' attitude was firmly antiregime: Luzarraga is also antiregime.

h. Vicky ANDRIAL, a friend of Emilia Luzarraga's who sometimes accompanied her on her visits to subsource, is married to Dr. Armando ZALDIVAR Pita, M.D., aka "Manduco", who is incarcerated at the Guanajay Jail. Subsource thought that he had been in jail since before the Playa Giron invasion; he had belonged to both the Havana University Catholic Group and the MRR. Subsource's brother-in-law, Enrique Casuso and Vicky Andrial both told subsource that Dr. Zaldivar continued to be unyielding in his antiregime attitude.

14-00000
CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH SECRET OSMA 26227

i. Vicky Andrial lives in Miramar, Havana, with Iliana ARANGO, the wife of Rino PUIG imprisoned at La Cabana since 1961; subsource did not know the length of Puig's sentence but did know that he had refused to accept "rehabilitation". Andrial works at the Canadian Embassy in Havana, Arango also works at an embassy in Havana, but subsource did not know which. Both Andrial and Arango are antiregime and teach the catechism to children at Reina Church, Havana City.

3. Further questions on members of MARTINEZ' wife's family, per References B and C, are being asked and answers will be forwarded when available.

14-00000
SECRET
(WHEN FILLED IN)

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS
1. Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back flap
and forward to RID.
2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records
significant action taken or comments requir-
ing preservation.

FROM:
TO: ACTION BRANCH
If file no. and title shown are not proper,
insert proper file no. below and forward
document to RID/AN.

PROPER FILE NO.
RID/AN
TO: ALL ADDRESSEES
FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK, IF APPROPRIATE
COMMENTS
ROOM
NO.
DATE
RECEIVED FORWARDED
OFFICER'S
INITIALS
ABSTRACT
INDEX
FILE TITLE
FILE NUMBER PRIMARY CODE
201-022396

14-00000
DISPATCH
PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
MICROFILM
SECRET

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
Chief of Station, WH/Miami
DO, Chief/Chicago; Chief, DO
Chief of Station, Madrid

Cuban Doctor Possibly Involved with Ransom Cases

For your information and possible investigation,
debriefing of Jose Francisco BOTET Carrion, DPOB: 14 April
1938, Havana, Cuba, engineering technician who arrived as a
refugee in Spain on 30 January 1970, produced the following story:

During the first two weeks of January 1970,
Source's father, Jose F. BOTET who still is in
Cuba told him that he had met in Havana a Dr. MOLINA
who was a physician who has been residing in Chicago,
Illinois for the past 20 years. MOLINA told Source's
father that he had come to Cuba to see the psychiatrist
BUSTAMANTE (Jose BUSTAMANTE O'Leary, 201-022396 ?)
who layang rumors said has been involved in helping,
some way or other, Cuban political prisoners in
La Cabana. BOTET's father recalled that MOLINA had
a brother who was just finishing a prison term
(he supposed for counterrevolutionary activities) and
surmised that MOLINA's visit was related to this fact.
MOLINA would not confirm this, nor did he reveal what
means he used to enter Cuba. At the time of Source's
departure 29 April 1970, MOLINA was still in Havana.
Unfortunately, Source could not recall MOLINA's full
name but remembers having seen him briefly in New York
in 1951. MOLINA is age 63/64, white, 5'8" tall,
170 lbs.

In view of the growing number of cases involving attempts
to ransom Cuban political prisoners, it may be that MOLINA is
playing an active role in the release of his brother and possibly
others. If the BUSTAMANTE concerned is BUSTAMANTE O'Leary,
the frustrated headshrinker of the regime, then this report may
indicate that he is cooperating, with or without regime knowledge,
in obtaining the release of certain political prisoners.

Distribution:
2 - C/WHI
2 - COS, WH/Miami
2 - DO/RBO, Chicago

CROSS REFERENCE TO
18-6-186/3
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
OSMA 26188
DATE
24 April 1970
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

14-00000
SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
NOTIFIED
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
(When Filled In)
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
INDEX: YES NO
CLASSIFY TO CS FILE NO.
X-REF TO CS FILE NO.
FILE RID RETURN TO
BRANCH
Ri/AN, EUR 6, CH/OPS
SECRET 211957Z OCT 69 CITE WH/MIAMI 5554
MADRID, MEXICO CITY INFO DIRECTOR
TYPIC
REF: OSMA-2559 (NOT FORWARDED MEXICO CITY)

1. REF BACKGROUND INFO ON AND ASSESSMENT OF SUBJ
OF 201-22396 MOST INTERESTING. SINCE THIS, COUPLED
WITH PAST INFO DEVELOPED ON SUBJ, WOULD APPEAR MAKE HIM
INTERESTING RECRUITMENT CANDIDATE, SUGGEST HE BE
WATCHLISTED BY ADDRESSEES. NOTICE FROM MADRID-9144 (IN 13.730)
SUBJ TRAVELLED TO MADRID AS LATE AS JULY 1969.
2. FOR MEXICO: REF ASSESSMENT OF SUBJ, PROVIDED BY
COLLEAGUE WHO LEFT CUBA MARCH 1969, SAID SUBJ "WOULD BE WILLING TO
ACCEPT OFFER AND WOULD TAKE BAIT IF GIVEN HALF CHANCE." DOES
STILL ACT AS MAIL CHANNEL FOR SUBJ AS
PER MEXICO CITY-38867 (IN 12763) (DEC. 167)
3. FILE: 201-22396.
SECRET

14-00000
SECRET
(When Filled In)
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
INSTRUCTIONS
1. Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back flap
and forward to RID.
2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records
significant action taken or comments requir-
ing preservation.

FROM:
TO: ACTION BRANCH
If file no. and title shown are not proper,
insert proper file no. below and forward
document to RID/AN.

PROPER FILE NO.
RID/AN
TO: ALL ADDRESSEES
FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK, IF APPROPRIATE
COMMENTS
ROOM
NO.
DATE
RECEIVED FORWARDED
OFFICER'S
INITIALS
ABSTRACT
TRACE
REQUEST
INDEX
FILE TITLE
FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE)
201-22396

14-00000
DISPATCH
SECRET
PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
MICROFILM
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
Chief, European Division
Chief of Station; WH/Miami
Chief of Station, Madrid
Operational Information on Dr. Jose Bustamente O'Leary,
Psychiatrist (201-022396)

References: DIRECTOR 27502

1. The following was prepared by a staff employee.

2. The information below was acquired through
interrogation of CC-4033, Dr. Hector WILTZ Lancis, a Cuban
refugee and former resident of Nuevo Vedado, Habana, who left
Cuba on 19 March 1969 and has been a professional colleague
of Subject for many years.

a. Dr. Jose BUSTAMENTE O'Leary, psychiatrist,
was brought up by his aunts; he does not know the
identity of his mother. He, together with Raul Roa,
Justo Carrillo, and others, comes from the ranks of
the left wing of the student movement: he joined the
Communist Party of Cuba in 1938 and, in 1944, supported
presidential candidate Dr. Carlos Saladrigas in the
presidential elections held that year. When Dr. Grau
was elected President, Subject concentrated on his
professional activities, earning considerable pres-
tige and acquiring a good practice, while maintaining
his political relationships with senators, colonos,
etc. In 1952, the year of the coup d'etat, Dr. Bustamente
had such friendly relations with both presidential
candidates that, if the general elections scheduled
for June 1952 had been held, Subject would have been
made (a) Vice-Minister of Foreign Relations if Dr. Agramonte
had been elected, and (b) Minister without cartera
(portfolio) if Dr. Hevia had been elected.

Distribution:
12 - C/WHD
2 - C/EUR
2 - COS, WH/Miami

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
OSMA 25559
DATE
13 October 1969
HOS FILE NUMBER
201-022396
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

14-00000
CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH SECRET OSMA 25559

b. After the 10 March 1952 coup d'etat,
Subject opposed the de facto government in
spite of his close relations with Dr. MORALES
del Castillo, who offered Subject the post of
Consulting Counsellor (Consejero Consultivo)
which post Subject rejected. Subject began to
conspire against the regime with Justo Carrillo
and Dr. Araujo, constituting the organization
called the Montecristi Group. Subject continues
to maintain a close relationship with Dr. Araujo,
now President of the Cuban Medical College,
Professor of the School of Medical Sciences of
Havana University, and functionary of the Higher
Nervous Activity Research Institute.

c. After the 1 January 1959 Revolution,
Subject hastened to exploit the Communist con-
tent of the Revolution and participated directly
in the denunciation of Dr. Urrutia. One of
Urrutia's assistants was Subject's patient and
informed Subject of events occurring within the
Presidential Palace. Subject then consulted with
Raul Castro and denounced Dr. Urrutia as anti-
Communist.

d. Subject is very intelligent, very com-
petent, and an extraordinarily hard worker. He
is Professor of Psychology at the Havana University
Medical School, and Director of the Higher Nervous
Activity Research Institute. During the decade
1950-60, he held a high post within the Cuban
Medical College and was President of the World
Medical Group; during this decade he made many
visits to the USA on matters related to his pro-
fessional activities.

e. It has been commented that Subject performed
"brain washing" activities for the Havana DSE.
During the period in 1966 that subsource was held
prisoner at Villa Marista, he did not see Subject:
subsource has never heard anyone state that he
actually saw Subject at Villa Marista. In subsource's
opinion, if Subject has ever worked for the MININT,
it was probably as professor of psychology in classes
given to MININT personnel; subsource presumes that
the classes would have been similar to those that
Subject gave to Cuban artists.

f. In 1956, Subject acquired an extraordinarily
beautiful mistress that he still continues to visit
and support. This mistress, Manolita Canto, was
divorced by her husband, Salup (fnu), after a private
detective hired by the husband surprised Subject and
Canto in a hotel room in Miami, Florida; subsequently,
U.S. immigration authorities prohibited Subject from
entering the U.S.A. Canto had had one son by her
husband; when her husband died, the son inherited
the father's wealth, which was considerable. The
laws against private property promulgated by the
Castro regime undermined Canto's economic position
to the point that she has had to go to work; she now
works at the INIT (National Tourist Industry Institute),
located at 23 and L Streets, Vedado, Havana City.

14-00000
CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH SECRET OSMA 25559

Subject surrendered his private practice to the Cuban
Government, and receives only his salary as Director
of the Higher Nervous Activity Research Institute,
which salary amounts to 800 Cuban pesos; this salary
is insufficient to permit Subject to maintain his
own home and his mistress's separate home and to lead
the type of life to which he was accustomed.

g. Subject is described as lacking in normal
affections, cold and calculating, a typical schizoid
interested only in himself, never makes a friendly
gesture, has almost no friends. Subject is generally
disliked and has many enemies who feel real hate towards
him. The young Revolutionary medical doctors refuse
to have anything to do with him. Fidel Castro does
not know who Subject is and has certainly never been
treated by Subject or received psychiatric treatment
from any other psychiatrist. Subject must be very un-
happy and downcast at his present situation: His
income is insufficient forhis normal mode of life;
he no longer travels extensively abroad (formerly,
he traveled abroad every three months); he holds no
representative office; he is not politically or socially
prominent and, indeed, no one pays him the slightest
attention. Subsource states categorically that he
believes that "Dr. Bustamente would be willing to
accept any offer. He would take the bait if given
half a chance."

h. The trip that Subject made to the USSR in
the early 1960's was a "pleasure trip." So far as
subsource knows, Subject received no training in the
USSR.

i. Subject is not known to have any relations
with SovBloc officials in Havana. He does maintain
close relations with (Dr) LOPEZ Sanchez (fnu), an
old-guard Communist of the so-called microfaction
who holds the post of Secretary of the Cuban Academy
of Sciences.
j. Fidel Castro is a pathological schizo-
paranoid reform-type personality, which personality
type is characterized by latent homosexuality.

k. Raul Castro is just the opposite of what he appears
to be and is more "human" than Fidel Castro; he has
founded a home, takes an interest in his family, etc.
He suffers from a homosexual complex, as denoted by his
hoarse voice.

l. Armando Hart is a hysterical type who believes
that his wife dominates him. His wife suffers from
a complex based on the fact that she is much older than
he.

14-00000
SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
NOTIFIED
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
(When Filled In)
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
INDEX: YES NO
CLASSIFY TO CS FILE NO.
X-REF TO CS FILE NO.
FILE RID RETURN TO
BRANCH
Ri/AN, EUR 6, SB 8, CI, CHOPS,
FILE VR.
SECRET 121544Z AUG 69 CITE MADRID 9173 (REPARD ACTING)
DIRECTOR
REF: DIRECTOR 27502
1. PLEASE COVER FOLLOWING IN DEBRIEFING DR. WILTZ RE
DR. BUSTAMANTE (SUBJECT)
A. EXTENT HIS KNOWLEDGE OF SUBJECT, PERSONAL,
FAMILY AND PROFESSIONAL.
B. HIS KNOWLEDGE OF SUBJECT'S TRAINING IN SOVIET
UNION IN EARLY 1960'S. FYI, SUBJECT WAS ALLEGEDLY
TRAINED IN BRAINWASHING TECHNIQUES.
C. SUBJECT'S FRIENDS AND CONTACTS AMONG SOVIET BLOC
OFFICIALS IN HAVANA.
D. RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN SUBJECT AND FIDEL CASTRO; ANY
TREATMENTS OF CASTRO BY SUBJECT; SUBJECT'S PSYCHIATRIC
ASSESSMENT OF CASTRO, OTHER OFFICIALS.
(CONTINUED)

14-00000
MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
(When filled in)
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
INDEX: YES NO
CLASSIFY TO CS FILE NO.
X-REF TO CS FILE NO.
FILE RID RETURN TO
BRANCH
SECRET 011413Z AUG 69 CITE MADRID 9173 (REPARD ACTING)
DIRECTOR
REF: DIRECTOR 25064
E. PSYCHIATRIC SERVICES PERFORMED BY SUBJECT
1. FOR CUBAN MINISTRY OF INTERIOR.
2. FILE: 201-22396.
END OF MESSAGE

14-00000
SECRET
(When Filled in)
INSTRUCTIONS
1. Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back flap
and forward to RID.
2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records
significant action taken or comments requir-
ing preservation.
FROM:
TO: ACTION BRANCH
If file no. and title shown are not proper,
insert proper file no. below and forward
document to RID/AN.

PROPER FILE NO.
RID/
TO:
ALL ADDRESSEES
FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK, IF APPROPRIATE
COMMENTS
ROOM
NO.
DATE
RECEIVED FORWARDED
OFFICER'S
INITIALS
ABSTRACT
TRACE
REQUEST
INDEX
FILE TITLE
FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE)
201-22396

14-00000
ACADEMIA DE CIENCIAS DE CUBA
INSTITUTO DE NEUROFISIOLOGIA
Y PSICOLOGIA
Loma y 37, Alt. del Vedado
Habana
Prof. Dr. Jose A. Bustamante
Director

June 12, 1967

Dear Dr. Redlich:

In December 14, 1966, I wrote you a long letter giving you
all the information about our activities at the Institute. I have
not heard from you ever since, and I am afraid this letter did not
reach you at all, therefore, I am enclosing a copy and following
are a few more news about this year's activities so far.

I wish to let you know that in July our new Review called
Transcultural Psychiatry will be published here. As soon as it is
out, I will mail you a copy. We are editing it and it will be the
first of its kind in our language.

We have an Anthropologist working with us at the Institute
now, Dr. Antonio Santa Cruz, a Yale graduate, and we are planning a
joint book on Transcultural Psychiatry since there is not a treatise
in Spanish on this subject. I will let you know as to its develop-
ment.

In reference to the Reviews that you so kindly offered to send
us, we are for the time being overcoming the shortage we were ex-
periencing. Instead, and if at all possible, I would like to receive
Vol. III of the American Handbook of Psychiatry, edited by Silvano
Arieti. I have Vols. I and II, and would be obliged to you if you
could send it to me.

Although I know your interest is in Psychiatry, I wish to
inform you that we are organizing a Symposium of Psychology which
will take place in Havana, the 24-30 of November, 1968, convened by
the Institute and the Academy of Sciences. Its subject will be:
"Motivation: neurophysiologic, psychologic and social factors.
Perspective of an integration". The paper could be on motivation: it
can be an interdisciplinary subject, as well as neurophysiologic,
psychologic or a social one.

I do not know whether you are interested or not, but in case
you are, please let me know and I will send you an invitation. The
guests' stay will be borne by the Academy of Sciences, and we have

14-00000

F. C. Redlich, M.D.

made arrangements that will assure tickets for all via Mexico, Praga
or Madrid.

Three of the scientists that have already accepted to come to
the Symposium visited the Institute this year. One of them was Dr.
Vladimir D. Nebylitsyn, Vice-Director of the Institute of Psychology
from Moscow, who stayed two months with us. He helped us to create
a typology laboratory in our Psychology Department. At the same time,
he offered a course on typology variables according to Teplov and
himself.

He works principally studying personality. His conception is
primarily based in the human brain properties that were discovered
by Pavlov and later on were developed by Teplov and his collaborators.

Dr. Nebylitsyn, as well as other investigators, have developed
some scientific methods on the investigation of such properties of
the nervous system and their studies nowadays can very well be
correlated with certain personality dimensions. It has been thus
proven by some investigators abroad and today, in Cuba, we need to
begin developing such scientific methods.

We also had Dr. E. Roy John, from the New York Medical College,
who spent a month here. Following is a brief resumé of his activities
at the Institute.

In the mornings, Dr. John gave a lecture on physiology of
learning, having memory as a basic theme, explained every possible
way, psychological, physiological, biochemical and anatomically. The
lecture was discussed by those attending, and experimental so-
lutions were proposed for various problems not yet resolved. The text
book used in this course was written by Dr. John himself and will be
out of print by now.

In the afternoons, four different experiments were carried
out. The first one on evoked potentials in humans, correlations of
same facing luminous stimulations of different colors. Influence of
expectancy situations. The second experiment was on learning,
observing cats with alimentary reflex. The third one was in influ-
ence of specific and unspecific structures of the Central Nervous
System on learning. Stimulations of different specific structures
and of reticular watching the importance of the facilitation of this
mechanism. The fourth experiment was a study with microelectrodes
of neuronal activity changes during the learning stage in cronic
animals.

Both Dr. Nebylitsyn and Dr. John dictated very interesting

14-00000

F. C. Redlich, M.D.

conferences at the Academy of Sciences' Conference Hall and at the
Scientific Council of the Ministry of Public Health.

At the moment, we have Dr. E. Grastyán, from the University
of Pecs, Hungary, who will leave soon after collaborating with the
Department of Psychology for two months. He has been working on
motivation and cooperating in a joint work for our coming Symposium.

I think I should let you know that I have written to Dr. D.
Leigh, Secretary to the World Psychiatric Association and among other
things I indicated the convenience to create one Committee or Section
of Transcultural Psychiatry within the World Psychiatric Association
because this is a rather new and multi-disciplinary field (comprising
psychologists, psychiatrists, anthropologists, etc.) requiring more
than any other one the cooperation and help to facilitate the efforts
to keep producing and offering contributions in the development of
this field.

I have secured a better way to get our mail and it consists
of the following: address your envelope to Laboratorios Erba, Apartado
21909, Mexico 21, D.F., Mexico, and the letter to me. Once they open
the letter and see it is addressed to me, a member of the laboratory
will bring it personally to me as they travel back and forth between
our countries. I will address my letters to you and they will mail
them in Mexico to you. In this way, we are both sure our mail will
not get lost since I have absolute confidence in them.

I think I have covered everything of interest to you.

Hoping to hear from you soon, and with best wishes, I remain,

Cordially yours,

J. A. Bustamante
Director

P.S. This is an exact copy of the letter except for the footnotes that
will bring you up to date.

14-00000
ACADEMIA DE CIENCIAS DE CUBA
INSTITUTO DE NEUROFISIOLOGIA
Y PSICOLOGIA
Loma y 37, Alt. del Vedado
Habana
Prof. Dr. Jose A. Bustamante
Director

La Habana, 23 de junio de 1967

Prof. Dr. Alfonso Millán
Cátedra de Psicologia Medica
Universidad Autónoma de México
Mexico, D.F.
Mexico

Querido Amigo:

Aprovechando un nuevo viaje del amigo Varisco te escribo otra vez para
saludarte y darte unos informes que creo de importancia.

También le estoy escribiendo a Seguín y Dávila. Les hago saber a todos
que en el mes de Julio saldrá el primer numero de nuestra Revista Psi-
quiatria Transcultural de la cual les enviaré un ejemplar tan pronto
salga.

En el mes de Noviembre se ha de celebrar una reunión de la Organiza-
ción Sanitaria Panamericana sobre la "Enseñanza de la Psicologia Médi-
ca y la Psiquiatria en América," a la que pienso asistir pues ha sido
invitada la Facultad de Medicina de la Universidad de la Habana por la
organización y la Facultad casi con toda seguridad me ha de designar,
en ese caso no tendría problemas pues ellos se ocupan de conseguir la
visa y de todos los demás detalles relacionados con la reunión.

En el mes de Enero le escribí una extensa carta a Pichot que en el
Congreso de Madrid estuvo tratando de producir una reunión de los
asistentes al mismo que se dedican a la Psicología Médica.

Yo recibí su citación con gran entusiasmo pues creo que es necesario
cambien impresiones los norteamericanos, europeos y latinoamericanos
ya que cada uno de dicho grupo tenemos nuestra propia opinión como
son sin duda las tres opiniones que rigen en el mundo en esta materia.
El por su parte nos defraudó tanto a mí como a Seguin pues realizó
una reunion intrascendente y se puso en contacto con gente que no re-
presenta la Psicologia Medica en el mundo y por ejemplo, concretamen-
te en relación al Perú, entró en contacto, no con Seguín que estaba
allí, sino con un muchacho que no se dedica a esta disciplina.

Esa es la razón por la cual le escribí esa carta haciéndole esas crí-
ticas y sugiriéndole que para tratar de esos problemas con nosotros
latinoamericanos tenían fundamentalmente que entrar en contacto con-
tigo, con Seguín y conmigo pues creo fuera de toda falsa modestia que
somos la más alta experiencia de la Psicología Médica en América Lati-

14-00000

Prof. Millán

na y de hecho una corriente de importancia