SECRET

104-10113-10254
[2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

5 APR 1968

VIA: Chief, 950/AB
SUBJECT: Request for Alias Documentation for AEGTIE-117

TO: Office of Security/Alien Affairs Staff

1. In accordance with preliminary conversations between Mr. Robert Pambrini, w/4/A, and Miss (Tina Japiks) and Mr. Patrick Phelan, TED/AD, it is requested that an ordinary Nicaraguan passport be issued in the name of Juan Hidalgo ELIZONDO Romano for AEGTIE-117's use to travel from the United States to Argentina and return. In addition, it is requested that an Arrival-Departure Record (I-94 Form I-94) be prepared for Subject.

2. The requested passport should contain a (forged) United States multiple entry tourist visa and a stamp showing entry into the United States via Miami, Florida, in early April 1963. Inclusion of the (forged) United States visa in Subject's passport will not afford him any privileges he does not already legally hold in his true identity. The passport should be valid through the end of 1968.

3. The following information should be included on the Form I-94 to be prepared for Subject:

a. Permanent address in Managua, Nicaragua: Calle 16 de Septiembre No. 405.

SECRET

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification

SECRET

4. Anticipated address in the United States: Airport International Hotel, Miami International Airport, Miami, Florida.

5. The above requirements are being coordinated with the Chief, Alien Affairs Staff, Office of Security, who will be kept informed every time the passport is being used for travel from or to the United States prior to exit and reentry to the United States. The information will include flight number, date and place of departure and reentry. The Alien Affairs Staff has been requested to provide Form-619 in alias.

William V. Brea
Chief
Western Hemisphere Division

SECRET
