```markdown
14-00000

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

“SLSHELL-5 VOL. V

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET
20 Jan 1975

CONTACT REPORT

Agent - PACHANKIS

D/P/T: 20 Jan 75/ Fairfax Holiday Inn/rm 363/0830-0930

201-307337
LX 4627

8. Miguel Angel DIAZ Isalque: I showed P the letter from DIAZ to the
PO Box 982 Coral Gables box; P said he did not know that address and had no
idea how DIAZ might have got it. I told P it was a sensitive address which we
did not want to have blown, asked him to contact DIAZ, ostensibly because
KALBING (who long ago was having P prime DIAZ for a trip to Madrid, which
never came off) had sent regards and an explanation of why the "Madrid thing
fell thru). P is to make no mention of the Coral Gables address or the letter,
but assuming DIAZ will bring it up, to try to discover how DIAZ got that address,
while also discovering what it is DIAZ had in mind when he wrote the letter.
P thinks he has DIAZ' phone number, if necessary can use the ploy of having
seen DIAZ' TV ad for his furniture store.

Emery D. PREMSELAR

SECRET

14-00000

INS liaison.)

Contact Report on Miguel Angel Isalque. (D)
(Back pind). (as an agent of ours during the early/mid
1960's put life on the line many times in
different assignments. In c. Dec 1963, (D) was nominated
and approved by ING to become an American citizen. He paid
the $25.00 court fee and expected to be called shortly
thereafter for the Naturalization Court ceremony. To date,
he has not been Naturalized and ING has not according
(satisfactorily explain the reason for this
unusual delay. (D) asked us in c. February 1975 to help
determine the cause for the ING delay. This come back saying
he should make one more attempt with INS before this would
check with INS liaison.)
On 21 and 27 March, I met with (D) and informed him
His suggestion that he check once again with INS. (D)
informs me he went back to INS and has been given the same
evasive/vague explanation: "Your case is under investigation.
We'll call you when its finished.". (or words to that effect.)
(D) has extensive business relations in both Costa Rica and
Venezuela. He desperately needs a US passport to travel
freely.
As far as I know, (D) has been a loyal/daring agent who has
always been ready to cooperate (and still does). If we
possibly can -consistent with current policy- offer a hand to
this man, at this time, we will be creating a great amount
of goodwill with (D). God know we need to hang on to as many
good and old friends as we can.
If -for some reason D's case with INS is murky, and he is
ineligible to be an AMCIT, then we should know that,
too.
Before beating this dead horse any further, Let me sum up.
If its a bureaucratic snafu by INS, lets help (D)
the other hand, INS has a legitimate case against (D) lets
find out the details for the sake of our security.
(D)
I promise/ss the w
to our people up North and
hopefully have some word on the status of his case soon.
Henry S. PACHANKIS.

FOR P42 201-307337

14-00000

MEMORANDUM

TO: Marvin L. Extrom DATE: January 7, 1975

FROM: McKercher and Avant MKA 3/75

SUBJECT: Letter from "MIGUEL"

Att: Andy:

Enclosed is a copy of the letter received in our "Special Payments" P. O.
Box 982 (Coral Gables Station), which I translated to you over the tele-
phone on this date. Also enclosed is a copy of the envelope.

MARIO GIRBAU

14-00000

PHONE: 841-2395
Hogarama Discount
MUEBLES Y EFECTOS ELECTRICOS
2235 W. FLAGLER ST.
MIAMI, FLORIDA 33135
NOVEMBER 27 1974

ARICO JOE:

SI PUEDES DAME UN TIMBRAZO CUANDO RECIBAS LA CARTA.
PUEDES LLAMARIE A MI NUEVO NEGOCIO CON LOS TELEFONOS
QUE PUEDES VER EN EL PAPEL TIMBRADO O A MI CASA DES-
PUES DE LAS 10 P.M.

GRACIAS,

MICUEL

TELEFONO DE MI CASA. 856-1345

14-00000

Hogarama Discount
2235 W. FLAGLER STREET
MIAMI, FLORIDA 33135

MR. NOTH L. ARES
P.O. BOX 982
CORAL GABLES, FLA. 33134

14-00000

SUBJ : Contact Report on Miguel DIAZ Isalque. (D)

Date 12 February 1975

1. I met for lunch the Harriott Hotel 12 Feb 75
to ascertain why he wanted to meet and how he came into
possession of the sensitive office accommodation address.
Setting up a meeting with Miquel was difficult and had to be done in a
round about way. I could not tip my hand and admit I had
received his letter. I had to write to his home address and
enclose a stamped, self addressed envelope to my new PO Box.
As always, our meeting was most pleasant and comfortable.
Our association goes back many years and I have always had the
greatest respect for his talents and motivation.

2. Miquel stated he had been trying to reach me and thought
I could do it through:
H. Orlando STRON Camas
1613 N 14th Court
Ft. Lauderdale, Fla
tel 763-1346.
Orlando worked inside for the Organization in the 1960s, had
been imprisoned and finally released in c. 1970. I had
debriefed him at that time and serviced some other requests
he had to make to the Organization in subsequent months.
Orlando's wife and Miquel's wife are related. Orlando's wife
had been receiving Organization assistance while he was in
prison and evidently received her funds through the reference
PO Box. Miquel wanted to get in touch with me and asked Orlando
if he had a way of communicating with the organization. Orlando
then supplied Miquel with the PO Box.

3. I believe I did not press Miguel for any further details.
this answer most of our questions. I denied having received
Miguel's letter and Miquel reasoned that it was "probably
those old addresses which aren't kept up to date anymore".
I seconded his thoughts. I said I had been trying to get hold
of him since Christmas to say hello, but he had changed his phone.

4. Miquel's interest in seeing me was for the following:
On 25 October 1973, he was interviewed by INS at the US District Court in Miami
and had, and paid
the US District Court receipt # 82427, dated
Oct 25, 1973 for $25.00.
been call back. This is usually a routine, fast process.

14-00000

7. I told him I had not been
able to contact INS on several occasions
to inquire re the delay in giving him and his wife and
daughter) their US citizenship. He has always been told
that "nothing is wrong," and that he will be called on.
But over a year's wait is not normal and something must
be wrong.

8. In view of Miguel's past relationship with us he wonders
if this is holding up his citizenship. He asks us to
inquire with the responsible authorities and for him to
know the present status of the case.

9. Would the Office please contact INS so we can assist
Miquel in some way and find out why he has not been
called to take his citizen's oath? Thanks in advance.

The details are:

Miquel DIAZ Isalque A 11 264 049
Has US District Court receipt # 82427, dated
Oct 25, 1973 for $25.00.

Wife: Fabiola Pura DE LA PORTILLA de DIAZ A 12 445 501
Has US District Court receipt under the name
of Fabiola Pura DIAZ, # 82426, date 25 Oct 1973,
for $25.00.

Daughter: Maria Rosa DIAZ A 12 445 502

10. Operationally, Miquel is always ready and willing to cooperate
and collaborate. When I was last asked to contact Miquel over
a year ago he was asked if he would be available to re contact
CLPGX-1 in Entri. Although his answer was in the affirmative,
there was never any followup.

11. Miquel now has business ventures in both Costa Rica and
Venezuela. He claims to have well placed friends in the
Costa Rican government. He has recently began importing
appliances into Venezuela.

12. There is:
2201-0756656
Antonio Git (mit unknown)
Caucasian male.
DOB: c. 1934 in Guantanamo, Oriente, Cuba.
O is the "right hand man" of Venezuelan minister
and confidant of Carlos Andres PERES: 201-0104034

Orlando ANITA (mit unknown) Caucasian male.
DOB: c. 1924 in Havana, Cuba.

13. Miquel led me to understand that he is available in whatever
task we might need him. I have promised to pass this on to
the office. I have just scratched the surface not knowing
12.73675
201-357337

14-00000

17. what interest, if any, the Office has. That, with the
impending establishment of and diplomatic relations
with both Costa Rica and Venezuela, Miquel might be
useful in developing access agents to the new
Cuban mission personnel, or any other assignment we
might require along these lines. Please advise.

18. I promised Miquel that I would pass on his request to
the Office and get back to him just as soon as I had some
answers.

PS:

19. For the record: Miquel is not looking for a job. He
appears affluent and quite busy with his business ventures.
But, I am almost certain he would contribute his services
for the cause, if we need him, with complete dedication.

Henry S. PACHANKIS.
20-309837

14-00000

201-810126
Timothy F. Garrigan
20 JAN 75
201-840126
517
UA-4237
201-387337

14-00000

CS COPY FILLED IN

14-00000

14-00000

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
(When filled in)
TOTAL COPIES
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY
SECRET
181635Z SEP 72 STAFF
CITE(MADRID (17263
DIRECTOR, WH/MIAMI.
AKULE TYPIP TREF:
WH/MAIMI 15782
711080
708738)
1. QUTIMID REPORTS AMWOLF-1 AND FAMILY PROBABLY RETURNING
HOME PCS IN FEBRUARY. THIS HAS NOT BEEN CONFIRMED BY OTHER
SOURCES. BELIEVE IT BEST TO SCHEDULE FIRST WEEK IN OCTOBER,
FROM POINT OF VIEW HERE THIS WOULD BE BEST TIME.

2. HAVE HAD LOOSE SURVEILLANCE ON AMWOLF-1 FROM TIME TO
TIME AND PLAN TO ONCREASE COVERAGE OVER THE NEXT SEVERAL WEEKS.
3. FILE: 201-307337. E2 IMPDET.

SECRET

14-00000

7 January 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR: C/LA/COG/CI

ATTENTION Chris Hopkins

SUBJECT: MHMUTUAL/MHSAVVY

1. MHSAVVY/2 received this date a letter in his Kenneth L.
Arens post office box of the following substance:

(Envelope mailed November 29, 1974)

"November 27, 1974

Hogarama Discount
2225 West Flagler Street
Telephone 541-2395

Dear Joe:

Please call me when you receive this letter.

You can call me at my new business with the tele-
phone number given above or you can call me at
my home after 10:00 p.m. Home Number 846-1345.

Thank you.
Miguel"

2. A copy of the original letter in Spanish is being
forwarded by MHSAVVY/2 to MHMUTUAL. When received it will,
in turn, be forwarded to LA/COG/CI. MHSAVVY/1 and 2 state
that Hogarama Discount is owned by Miguel Diaz Izalque.
Further, MHSAVVY/1 states that he knows this man was in con-
tact with BKHERALD some years ago.

Cedric D. BARTILUCCI (P)
CCS/MHMUTUAL

CCS/MHMUTUAL/CDB/maf
E2 IMPDET CL BY 000264

Distribution:
Orig - Addressee

201-307337

14-00000

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
(When filled in)
TOTAL COPIES
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
INDEXI ☐ YES ☐ NO
BY:
AT:
DISSEM BY
ACTION UNIT
FILE VR
C/IP/AN C/EURS
SECRET 2020052 SEP 712 STAFF
CITE WH/MIAMI 15838 (VEAUSELL ACTING)
MADRID INFO DIRECTOR.
TYPIC AKULE
REF: A. WH/MIAMI 15782 4% 708737
B. MADRID 17260 (in 711054)
C. WH/MIAMI 156536697422
1. CONCUR FIRST WEEK OCTOBER AS BEST DATE. PLEASE CONFIRM
SPECIFIC DATE SOONEST.
2. FILE: 201-307337. E2 IMPDET.
SECRET

14-00000

SECRET
(When filled in)

SUSPENSE MEMORANDUM RECORD

A memorandum was written concerning the Subject
of this 201 on 16 DEC 1974
(date)
taken
by
(requestor)
in reply to a request
received on
(date)
(analyst name)
(office - extension)

NOTICE

REMOVE AND DESTROY THIS SUSPENSE MEMORANDUM RECORD
WHEN NAME TRACE REQUEST FORM AND/OR DDO COPY OF
MEMORANDUM IS FILED IN THIS 201.

SECRET
(When filled in) E2 IMPDET
CL BY 059858

14-0000

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED
SECRET
(When Filled in)
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
FILE. VR
SECRET 301634Z OCT 72 STAFF
CITE MADRID 17555MADR
DIRECTOR, WH/MIAMI.
RYBAT TYPIC
1. AMCHAL K-5 RETURNED DIRECT TO MIAMI VIA AERONAVE DE
MEXICO FLIGHT ON 28 OCTOBER.
2. FILE: 201 E2 IMPDET.
SECRET
30 OCT 1972
201-307337

14-0000

ASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET
(When Filled In)

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
FILE. VR
TOTAL COPIES
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY
SECRET 401634Z OCT 72 STAFF
CITE MADRID 17555
DIRECTOR, WH/MIAMI.
RYBAT TYPIC
1. AMCHAL K-5 RETURNED DIRECT TO MIAMI VIA AERONAVE DE
MEXICO FLIGHT ON 28 OCTOBER.
2. FILE: 201 307337 E2 IMPDET.
SECRET

14-00000

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
(When filled In)
TOTAL COPIES
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
FILE. VR
SECRET 192330 OCT 72 STAFF
CITE MEXICO CITY 21420
MADRID, DIRECTOR INFO WH/MIAMI.
TYPIC AMWOLF
TRAVEL OF PEDRO PINERO
REF: DIRECTOR 326678
1. FYI: PINERO'S NAME DOES NOT APPEAR ON ANY
AIRLINE MANIFESTS DEPARTING MEXICO CITY FOR MADRID
OR OTHER EUROPEAN CITIES BETWEEN 13-17 OCT. WILL
ATTEMPT MONITOR POSSIBLE ONWARD TRAVEL.
2. FILE: AMWOLF-1, AMCHALK-5, 201-8824376.
E2 IMPDET.
SECRET

14-00000

4,18 OCTOBER 1972

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
(When Filled In)
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
FILE. VR
C/WH/COG/FI
7265 R. 0229
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
INDEX
NO INDEX
RETURN TO
BRANCH
FILE IN CS FILE NO.
CITE DIRECTOR
MADRID INFO MEXICO CITY WH/MIAMI
TYPIC AMWOLF
REF: MEXICO CITY 21363 (IN 734975) (NOT SENT MADRID)
1. REF REPORTED TRAVEL PEDRO PINERO
ERIN, PP D/71/1177,
CUBA TO MEXICO, 13 OCTOBER 72.
2. THOUGH CUBANS SUPPOSEDLY UNAWARE PLANNED AMCHALK-5 APPROACH
TO AMWOLF-1, SUGGEST MADRID WATCH FOR POSSIBLE ARRIVAL PINERO,
AS HE INVOLVED IN JUNE 1967 AMWOLF-1/AMCHALK-5 MEETING.
3. MEXICO CITY: IF PINERO'S ACTIVITIES OR ANY ONWARD TRAVEL
COME TO ATTENTION OF STATION, PLS REPORT.
4. FILE: AMWOLF-1, AMCHALK-5, 201-824376.
E2 IMPDET.
END OF MESSAGE
WH COMMENT: Ref reported travel, paragraph 1.
C/EUR/IB
C/WH/1
THEODORE G. SHACKLEY
C/WHD
COORDINATING OFFICERS
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER
SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
COPY NO.

14-00000

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY
SECRET
(When Filled In)
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
FILE. VR
SECRET 171407Z OCT 72 STAFF
CITE MADRID 17443
DIRECTOR, WH/MIAMI.
RYBAT TYPIC
REF MADRID 17403/IN 730837)
1. THROUGH QUEYE SURVEILLANCE IT WAS DETERMINED ON
16 OCTOBER THAT AMWOLF/1 LEFT THE CONSULATE ALONE AND WENT TO HIS
APARTMENT. ON THE BASIS OF THIS ALERT, POSITIONED AMCHALK/5
NEAR GARAGE WHERE AMWOLF/1 PARKS HIS CAR.
2. AT 1656 HOURS 16 OCTOBER WHEN AMWOLF/1 LEFT THE GARAGE,
AMCHALY/5 WAS ABLE TO STOP HIM HALF A BLOCK FROM HIS APARTMENT
AND CARRIED ON A SIX MINUTE CONVERSATION. INITIALLY AMWOLF/I
WAS COLD, VISUALLY UPSET BUT LATER BECAME JOVIAL. AT FIRST
INSISTED THAT AMCHALK/5 COME TO THE CONSULATE OR CALL HIM TO
SET UP MEETING. HOWEVER, AMCHALK/5 INSISTED THEY TALK THEN
AND AMWOLF/1 AGREED. AFTER AMCHALK/5 MADE THE PITCH, AMWOLF/1
REACTED BY SAYING "THESE JOHNIES' HAVE EVERYTHING AND NOW THEY
REALLY STEPPED ON ME". AMWOLF/1 ENDED THE CONVERSATION BY
AGAIN AKSING AMCHALK/5 TO COME TO CONSULATE OR CALL HIM SO THEY
COULD HAVE ANOTHER TALK. AMWOLF/1 RETURNED TO THE CAR WHERE HIS
WIFE WAS WAITING AND STARTED THE MOTOR AND THEN STOPPED AGAIN AND
GOT OUT. HE THEN HAD AMCHALK/5 COME OVER AND INTRODUCED HIS

14-0000

ADVANCE COPY
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY
SECRET
(When Filled In)
ISSUED
SLOTTED
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
FILE. VR
PAGE 2 MADRID 17443 S E C R E T
WIFE TELLING HER THAT HE HAD JUST BEEN PITCHED ON BEHALF OF
WODUAL. SHE REACTED BY SMILING PLEASANTLY AS IF THERE WAS
ABSOLUTELY NOTHING WRONG WITH WHAT HAPPENED.
3. AMCHALK/5 COMMENTED TO CASE OFFICER THAT HE DID NOT THINK
AMWOLF/1 WOULD CHANGE HIS POSITION NOW. AMCHALK/5 BELIEVES WE SHOULD
WAIT A FEW DAYS BEFORE ATTEMPTING ANOTHER CONTACT EITHER BY ANOTHER
MEETING OR TELEPHONE CALL. STATION AGREES WE SHOULD WAIT A FEW
DAYS BUT THAT A TELEPHONE CALL SHOULD PRECEDE ANY MEETING. IF THE
TELEPHONE CALL PRODUCES A CONTINUED NEGATIVE REACTION, WOULD NOT PROCEED
WITH SECOND MEETING UNLESS HQS DESIRES CONTRARY. BELIEVE WE
WILL GET SOME REACTION FROM QUTINID IN THE NEXT SEVERAL DAYS.
ANOTHER FACTOR IS THAT AFTER THE ENCOUNTER, AMWOLF/1 WENT TO THE
EMBASSY BUT DID NOT REMAIN. SURVEILLANCE WAS NOT ABLE TO LOCATE
HIM AT THE CONSULATE.
4. POUCHING DETAILED REPORT.
5. FILE: 201-840126, E2 IMPDET.
SECRET

14-0000

CONTACT REPORT: Meeting with AMCHALK-5

WH/COG/FI
1-72
10 October 1972

TIME AND PLACE: Kennedy Airport, New York, Saturday
7 October 1972

1. I met AMCHALK-5 at the airport and spent three hours
with him between flights. I passed him the note from C/COG
for delivery to his contact in Madrid station. This note
confirmed what I told AMCHALK-5 orally concerning the amount
of money that could be offered AMWOLF-1 for his defection cr
recruitment.

2. I briefed AMCHALK-5 on the contact arrangements and
operational plan proposed by Madrid. AMCHALK-5 is still
confident that he will have success in his contact with AMWOLF-1.

Alan G. Morrill
C/WH/COG/FI

14-0000

8 October 1972

MEMORANDUM FOR: Record

SUBJECT: Meeting with AMCHALK-5

TIME AND PLACE: Miami, 3 and 4 OCTOBER

1. I met AMCHALK-5 at 1430 hours at the Rusty Pelican
Restaurant. I told him we would like to have him travel
immediately in order to arrive in Madrid by 9 October. AMCHALK-5
said he could make it with no problem. He wasn't sure his wife
would be able to go on such short notice, but that didn't matter.
I briefed him on the contact arrangements sent from Madrid and
described WIBALDA to him. I told him WIBALDA’S name is "ROBERTO."
AMCHALK-5 said he would make the 0930 hours contact on 10 October,
but of course if something goes wrong that he will go to all
the alternate meetings. He will be wearing a white Sports
jacket, white shirt, blue tie, blue slacks and black shoes.

2. I told AMCHALK-5 that WIBALDA would have the letter
for AMGHOST-1 for him to take to the meeting, and I told him
again not to use the letter unless his recruitment pitch had
no results. If he does pass the letter, I suggested that he
flex it to prove to AMWOLF-1 that it does not contain a bomb.

3. I told AMCHALK-5 that it looked good for a surprise
contact with AMWOLF-1 on 10 October and because he would be
going to lunch with a woman not connected with his office.
AMCHALK-5 was pleased to hear this and because he feels he must
make the contact unannounced for it to be effective. He said
that if the October 10 contact was missed, there would probably
be another luncheon the following week. AMCHALK-5 is willing
to stay in Madrid as long as necessary.

4. AMCHALK-5 was sorry to hear that I won't be going to
Madrid because he wants to be sure that he is given as much
flexibility as possible, and not forced to handle the approach
in a manner that he would not be comfortable with. I told him

14-0000

that WIBALDA understood the situation, and that I was sure it
would all go well. AMCHALK-5 assured me that he has no inten-
tion of letting himself get into a physically dangerous situation
during the contact.

5. If the contact is made next week, AMCHALK-5 will be
back before the PACHANKIS is. I said we would want to debrief
him in Miami and that either I would see him or PACHANKIS would.
I said that if PACHANKIS talks to him, he can tell PACHANKIS the
complete details of the operation unless I phoned him otherwise.

6. We arranged to meet again at 1900 hours when AMCHALK-5
would have his itinerary, and I could pass him the money he needed.
AMCHALK-5 doesn't want to be paid for this job, but I insisted
again that we would pay all his expenses, and I told him to save
his hotel bill and other receipts. We met at 1900 hours at the
Vizcaya bar and then drove around in AMCHALK-5's car. I passed
him $1,500 for which he signed a receipt. AMCHALK-5 had gotten
reservations and will leave Miami for New York on 7 October and
then fly to Lisbon that same night. He will spend 8 and 9 October
in Lisbon where he will rent a car and drive to Madrid, arriving
in the evening on 9 October. He has reservations in the Agumar
Hotel for 9 October, and he will make the first contact at 0930
hours on 10 October.

7. I wished AMCHALK-5 good luck. He is much more optimistic
about his chances with AMWOLF-1 than I am, but it is good to work
with a man with enthusiasm. Just in case AMCHALK-5 should be
successful, we should be prepared to support him. I suggest that
we cable Madrid telling them what and how much we are willing to
offer should AMWOLF-1 be interested in defecting. I told AMCHALK-5
that he could promise asylum, but I did not tell him how much money
he could offer as an inducement for either recruitment in place or
defection.

Oscar C. KALBING

14-0000

SECRET TELE POUCH

DISPATCH NO UFAA 4459
FILE NO 201-307337
DATE 15 SEPTEMBER 1972
INDEXING NO
MICROFILM NO
TO CHIEF, WESTERN HEMISPHERE DIVISION
FROM CHIEF OF STATION, WH/MIAMI
SUBJECT TYPIC/AKULE AMCHALK/5
REF WH/MIAMI 15782

1. DURING THE 12 SEPTEMBER 1972 MEETING MENTIONED IN
REFERENCE, AMCHALK/5 COMMENTED ON AMEEDEW/1'S LATEST BOOK
AND THE FACT THAT HE WAS MENTION IN THREE OR FOUR PAGES.
SENSING AMCHALK/5 DISCOMPOSURE, PACHANKIS ENQUIRED AS TO
THE REASON. AMCHALK/5 REPLIED, "IT'S NOT THAT I'M UPSET
OR NOT, I JUST SEE NO REASON TO BRING ME OUT IN THIS BOOK."
2. THE ABOVE IS FORWARDED TO HEADQUARTERS FOR WHATEVER
INTEREST IT MAY HAVE, ESPECIALLY IN LIGHT OF THE PROPOSED
USE OF AMCHALK/5 IN THE AMWOLF/1 OPERATION.
STANLEY F. SPECKLER

DISTRIBUTION

3 C/WHD
E2 IMPDET

SECRET

14-0000

SECRET TELEPOUCH

DISPATCH NO UFAA 4403

FILE NO Aa-8-24

DATE 15 SEPTEMBER 1972

INDEXING NO

MICROFILM NO

TO CHIEF, WESTERN HEMISPHERE DIVISION
INFO: CHIEF, FAR EAST DIVISION
CHIEF OF STATION, TOKYO
FROM CHIEF OF STATION, WH/MIAMI
SUBJECT AKULE/TYPIC/AMDODGE - 1972 CUBAN PRESENCE LIST
REF FUTA 61848, DATED 28 AUGUST 1972

WE WOULD APPRECIATE RECEIVING A COPY OF THE LIST MENTIONED
IN REFERENCE.

STANLEY F. SPECKLER

DISTRIBUTION

3 CAHD
2 C/FE
2 COS, TOKYO
E2 IMPDET

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET

(When Filled In)

TO: CRS/ISG 25 September 1972

NOTE: (1. If additional space is
necessary, continue on reverse side.

(2. Use CRS Service Request,
Form 2816 when requesting COMINT
documents.

SUBJECT TO BE CHECKED

SURNAME GIVEN NAMES

DIAZ Isalgue Miguel A.

SPELLING VARIATIONS TO BE CHECKED

DATE OF BIRTH CITIZENSHIP RESIDENCE

14 Feb 37 Cuban Miami, Fla.

OTHER IDENTIFYING DATA (occupation, CP membership, I.S. affiliations, etc.)

(Previous check requested in March 1968)

SPOUSE (IF wife, give maiden name) OR OTHER RELATIVES

RESULTS OF CRS/ISG INDEX CHECK

NO PERTINENT IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION

DOCUMENT REFERENCES

COMMENTS

No additional information either SI or
Collateral since March 1968.
CRS ISG WH CUBA, ese, 27 Sep 72

(4-9-35)

SECRET

14-0000

TELEPOUCH
DISPATCH NO
UFAA 4459
FILE NO
201-307337
DATE
15 SEPTEMBER 1972
INDEXING NO
MICROFILM NO
TO CHIEF, WESTERN HEMISPHERE DIVISION
FROM CHIEF OF STATION, WH/MIAMI
SUBJECT PRO PART I ON AMCHALK/5.
REFERENCE DIRECTOR 376739
1. AS REQUESTED IN REFERENCE, WE ARE FORWARDING UNDER SEPARATE
COVER COPIES OF PRO PART I ON AMCHALK/5.
2. SINCE THE STATION (AT HEADQUARTERS' REQUEST) HAS ONLY
RECENTLY RECONTACTED AMCHALK/5 SOLELY FOR THE PURPOSE OF
UTILIZING HIM IN THE AMWOLF/1 OPERATION, WE DO NOT FEEL WE ARE
PRESENTLY IN POSITION TO SUBMIT A MEANINGFUL PRO PART II ON HIM.
WE BELIEVE THAT HEADQUARTERS, WITH THE COMPLETE 201 FILE READILY
AVAILABLE, MAY BE IN THE BEST POSITION TO FULFILL PRO PART II.
STANLEY F. SPECKLER
ATTACHMENT: USC (VIA POUCH)
DISTRIBUTION
VIA TELEPOUCH
3 C/WHD W/ATT USC
E2 IMPDET
SECRET

14-0000

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE
PART I - BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION
INSTRUCTIONS: 1. Write clearly.
2. Answer all questions. If question is not applicable, write -NA-
3. Attach blank pages, if additional space is needed UFAA-4398
SECTION 1 GENERAL PERSONAL AND PHYSICAL DATA
1. NAME (First) (Middle) (Last)
Miguel Angel DIAZ y Isalgue
2. NAME IN NATIVE LANGUAGE OR SCRIPT (If different than Item 1.)
Same
3. NAME AT BIRTH (If different than Item 1.)
Same
4. ALIASES, NICKNAMES, TELECODES, LEGAL CHANGE IN NAME (State time, reason for and place of use)
As youth, used name of father: Miguel DIAZ-Pardo, "because
many persons thought it was a compound name."
5. DATE OF BIRTH 6. PLACE OF BIRTH
14 February 1937 Matanzas, Cuba
7. PERSONAL HABITS (Liquor, drugs, gambling, paramours)
Enjoys a drink, has given up smoking cigars. No bad major vices.
8. COURT RECORD (Court, date, arrests, charges, punishments, sentences, acquittals)
None
9. DESCRIPTION (Use American standards of measurements, if possible)
a. SEX b. AGE c. APPARENT AGE d. HEIGHT e. WEIGHT f. COMPLEXION
M 35 40 5' 10" 180 fair