14-00000
104-10215-10126
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Information on Vehicle Consigned to Soviet National

GƐMusulin/bm Case 51,605
DCS/Operational Support Staff 2268
900 Key Bldg. 19 August 1968

DO/DCSL
SOD/Maritime
Mike Evans
1. E 4846 Hq.
Attached in furtherance to
previous communication sent you on
subject is copy of Bill of Lading
and Dock Receipt, which correlates
to this case.

14-00000
DELIVERING CARRIER
MOORE MCCORMACK LINES. INCORPORATED
American Republics Line
American Scantic Line
Robin Line
CAR NUMBER: REFERENC
FORWARDING AGENT SHIPPER'S.
LUIGI SERRA, INC.
32
21 WEST ST NEXT
E-32896
CBC
EXPORT DEC
282
BILL OF LADING
SHIPPER
CONSIGNED TO
ORDER OF
LUTGI SERRA INC. 21 WEST STREET, NEW YORK, NY
2100-0282
DE LA EMBAJADA DE U.R.
IVAN GABRILOVICH ALFERJEV SECUNDO SECRETARIO BUENOS AIRES ARGENTINA
ADDRESS ARRIVAL NOTICE TO (without liability to Carriers Clan 9)
SAME AS
PORT OF DISCHARGE.
177
BUENOS
MARKS AND NUMBERS
NO. OF PKGS.
NONE.
USA FLAG
FORT OF LOADING
DESTINATION UFFY
FT 23. REET BKLYN
NEW YORK
PARTICULARS FURNISHED BY SHIPPER OF GOODS
SHIPPERS DESCRIPTION OF PACKAGES AND GOODS
FREIGHT COLLECT
GROSS WEIGHT
COPY
POUNDS
NON-NEGOTIABLE
IVAN GABRILOVICH ALFERIEV
SECUNDO SECRETARIO DE LA
EMBAJADA DE LA U.R.S.S
BUENOS AIRES
XCO 4890
#1363981125849
UNBOXED: CHEVROLET
1596
CHEVELLE
'68
3518 #
FOR ARGENTINE CUSTOMES QULY
LUIGI SERRA INC.,.
FREIGHT COLLECT ARGENTINA
EIGHT CHARGES MUST OS PAD PRIOR TO ARRIVAL OF
AT PORT OF DISCHARGE OTHERWISE CARGO WILL P
WITH ARGENTINE LAWS
BARGOED IN ACCORDANC
HISE AND EXPENSE OF THE COODS.
GENERAL MOTORS CORP.
FREIGHT TO BE EN
ARGENTINA
NAILERIGHT CHARGES RATE BRKGE CARGO
TYPE TYPERTYPE
462.405052552
LUIGI SERRA INC
Notice: All rates apply from ships tackle at sort of leading to t
tackle at port of discharge, unless otherwise mentioned
COMMODITY NO COLL
TATIVE SPACECOLLECT ACCOUNT
73201402
PORT
CODE
Freight to be
Freight to be
COLLECTED $ 52553 PREPAID $
Unless otherwise stated, the Carrier by its Agent has signed THREE (3) BILLS OF LADING, all of
this tenor and date, one of which being accomplished, the others to stand void.
MOORE MCCORMACK LINES, Incorporated
N
FOR THE MASCO
RECEIVED from the shipper herein named the goods or packages said
to contain goods mentioned herein. In apparent good order and condi
tion unless (Terms of this Bill of Lading Continued on
Hereof
DAY
DATED AT NEW YORK
B/L NO.

14-00000
DELIVERING
CARRING M & G CONVOY
TO THE MOTOR VEHICLES
PLEASE DELIVER THE
DESCRIBED BELOW:
BUFFALO, NEW YORK
NON AT
EXPORT
LICENSE NO
LOAD NO.
THE NO.
1672
XCO
VA 189471
1/20
IN BOND
M.FARI
ELLIVIA
519
701
Firax pride P
PIC
DELIVER
0%
8/1
DOCK
RECEIPT
ATTACHED
10.
UNITE
[FORT
BFC. NO.
MQUEL DESCRIPTION
1 CHU-13639 - SEDAN.
Sivast 81175849.
1P/C-LUIGI SERRA INC:
TO BE REMARKED
POUNDS
CUDE
351209161
2
468.735
SIGHED DOCK RECEPT
must be returned
THREORYELY
to undersigned
D/L DESTINATION
WHEEL, BRENCH
INSIDE MIRROR
EXTRA EELS & TIRES
RADIO & ANTENA
SEALED CARTONS
OF PARTS
HEATERS & DEFROSTERS
JACK & JACK BASE
1
PINT CAN OF PAINT 2
ASH TRAYS
3
ADUS & BLAGES.
2
W/S WIPER
RADIO FUSE
MARKS
IVAN GABRILOVICH ALFERIEU
Segundo Secretario Dela
Embajada DE U.R.S.S.
BUENOS AIRES - ARGENTINA.
GENERAL MOTORS OVERSEAS OPERATION
DIVISION OF GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION
JUL 17 1968
BY W. TRAINOR
Dejan Crutchlédi še krithin merchandise for shipments indicated hereon subje
undersigned's usual form of dock receipt or Mill of lading
DOCK RECE ishin merchandise
QUADRUPLICATE Carrier
NON-NEGOTIABLE
Receiving Clerk
all conditions

14-00000
Moore Me Cormack Lines
GSMusulin/bm
DCB/Operational
900 Key Bldg
Star
ase 51,605
16 August1968
DO/DCSIL
SOD/Maritime
Mike Evans
of HYOR 0225 is for your
Information and records.
Additional information will be.
warded when received. Please
know if there is
omething fu her, we can do.

14-00000
Process Sheet typed
in CSS, 19
aug
48
CO. A(S) 29007-68
SEGNET
SECRET 161544Z AUG 68 CITE CONTACTS/NEW YORK #225
PRIORITY CONTACTS/WASHINGTON
OPERATIONAL DIVISION (MUSULIN) FROM BROOKS
INTEL REPORT: 00A(S) 22.
CONTACT. AND SOURCE:
29007-68
MR. BUSER
VP, SOUTH AMERICAN OPNS
MOORE MCCORMACK LINES
NEW YORK CITY
SOURCE: SAME
FILED: 16 AUG 1968
FIELD REMARKS:
Aug 16 12 21 PM 68
COPIES OF THE DOCK RECEIPT AND BILL OF LADING ARE
BEING FORWARDED UNDER COVER OF A PROCESS SHEET.

2268
ROUTINE
SECRET
80933
15 AUG 68 1100
CONTACTS NEW YORK
FROM OSS (MUSULIN)
CASE 51,605
REQUEST TO IDENTIFY VEHICLE CONSIGHED TO SOVIET EMBASSY,
BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA
THIS IS NEW CASE OPENED TO YOUR OFFICE
BOD/MARITIME REQUESTS INFORMATION ON MAKE AND MODEL OF CAR
CONSIGNED TO IVAN GAVRILOVICH ALFERIEV AND REPORTEDLY DESTINED TO SOVIET
EMBASSY, BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA CAR WAS PLACED ABOARD THE MORMACPRIDE, MOORE
MC CORMACK LINES, MERCHANTMAN, 8 AUGUST 1968, DUE TO ARRIVE BUENOS AIRES,
18 AUGUST 1968.
SHIPPING RECORDS SHOULD PROVIDE THE DESIRED IDENTIFICATION
AND OTHER PERTINENT
INFORMATION. PLEASE EXPEDITE REPLY ASAP.
SECRET
Aug 15 14 0

14-00000
SECRET
COUNTRY: USSR/ARGENTINA/USA
CASE 51605 RE
WASHINGTON 82933
DATE OF INFO 16 AUG 68

SUBJECT: INFORMATION ON VEHICLE CONSIGNED TO SOVIET NATIONAL
PLACE AND DATE ACQUIRED: ---/16 AUGUST 1968
THIS IS NEW YORK REPORT 00A(S) 2405468
SOURCE DESCRIPTION: NONE

THE VEHICLE SHIPPED ABOARD THE MORMACPRIDE ON 8 AUGUST AND
CONSIGNED TO IVAN GABRILOVICH ALFERIEV IS MANIFESTED AS A 1968
CHEVELLE SEDAN, SERIAL 1363981125849 RPT 1363981125849. ALFERIEV
IS REFLECTED AS THE SECOND SECRETARY OF THE USSR EMBASSY, BUENOS
AIRES. A SECOND IDENTIFYING SERIAL NUMBER SHOWN ON THE BILL OF
LADING IS XCO-189491. THE VEHICLE WAS CONSIGNED BY LUIGI SERRA INC,
21 WEST ST, NYC AS AGENTS FOR THE USSR EMBASSY, BUENOS AIRES.

2. THERE IS NO INFORMATION RECORDED SHOWING THE COLOR OF THE
AUTOMOBILE OR WHETHER IT IS TWO OR FOUR DOORS. THE VEHICLE IS STOWED
IN NUMBER FOUR UPPER TWEEN DECK WING AND IS ONE OF FOURTEEN
ASSEMBLED VEHICLES TO BE OFFLOADED AT BA. THERE IS AT LEAST
ONE OTHER 1968 CHEVELLE ABOARD.

3. THE MORMACPRIDE IS SKED INTO BA ON 18 AUG, BUT HER PORT
POSITION IS NOT YET KNOWN. IT IS CONCEIVABLE THAT SHE WILL BE
ASSIGNED A BERTH ON THE 18TH AND THAT CARGO WILL BE WORKED
IMMEDIATELY, DESPITE THE FACT THAT IT IS A SUNDAY. IF THIS IS THE
CASE, THE VEHICLES IN THE TWEEN DECKS SPACES WILL BE THE FIRST
CARGO OFF-LOADED.
SECRET
-END-
