RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FROM: DIRECTOR

TO:
ACTION: WH 17/00
INFO: CI, CI/OPS, CI/OA, FI, SR 7, RF VR

SECRET
ROUTING: DIP CITE MEXI 6445
LCIMPROVE
082315Z

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

1. REQUEST TRACES AND INITIATION POA ON HECTOR RAFAEL LAPA VAZQUEZ, DOB 6 AUG 1939 MEXICO CITY. SUBJ PRESIDED CHICAGO AREA, 1927-41. FIRST WIFE (WHD) U.S. [NATIONAL, HAS FOLL U.S. NATIONAL DAUGHTERS:] MRS. GRADELLE PONZIO BESIDINO 233 FR

PRICILLA LAMOCKI, ALSO IN POSSELLE. MEXI MAS NO TRACES ANY GROVT.

2. [CLARA JADVISED EMP SECURITY OFFICER 24 SEPT THAT WAS AT PARTY WEEK EARLIER WITH (SOV FIRST SEC SERGEY SEPGRYEVICH KONSTANTINOV (SUSPECT KGB PESIDENT)] [TASS CORRESPONDENT PIOTR FEDOTOV] A SQV KMU). PARTY AT HOME OF [VIRGINIA GOMEZ (WIETO).] OTHER PERSON IN ATTENDANCE WAS GOMEZ BOYFRIEND RICARDO POERY CERVANTES.] [INTERRELATES OF ABOVE IS THAT [GOMEZ IS SUBS WIFE'S HAIR DRESSED, CONFZ) INTRODUCED SUBJ TO POERY ABOUT TWO MONTHS AGO. [POERY] IS PROMINENT MEXICAN JOURNALIST OF EXTREME LEFTIST ORIENTATION AND PRESIDENT OF [ASSOCIATION OF JOURNALISTS. COMMON GROUND, BETWEEN [POERY] AND [CARDIA] (FIVE) IS THAT LETTER IS SUCCESSFUL ADVERTISING SALESMAN AND DIGLICE CHAIN NEWSPAPERS WHICH CONSERVATIVE. IS ALSO MEN [CARDIA] CH ASSOCIATION

14-00000

MESSAGE

MARS NOT WANT CARDIZE HIS PRIVILEGE TRAVEL 116., NOR JEOPARDIZE POSITION HIS DAUGHTERS.] ASKED WHETHER SHOULD CONTINUE SEE SOUS WHO TENTATIVELY INVITED HIM CARRY STAR FUTIES.

KEXI TOLD SUB TAKE NO INITIATIVE WITH SOUS BUT FOR PRESENT. CEST CITY SOU REALITIES NOT ACCEPT IN UR CHANGE, CONSERVATIVE. POLITICAL STANCE WHICH SUBJ SAYS KNOWN [POERY.]

5. 8 OCT SUBJ REPORTED MET FEDOTOV AT JOURNALIST ASSOCIATION MEETING, LATER OFFERED TENIS FIRE INVITE.

6. TED EARLY SPECIFICALLY DEFINED OBJECTIVES SUB UTILIZATION BUT IF [FEDOTOV] OF CONSTANTINOV BASIS DESCRIPTION, THIRD CAN AT FIRST PARTY COULD BE [SOV INFO BILLOTIN REP SERGEY SERMONOVICH RUKHARENKO ACCORDING LIENVOY 1956, LADDER HAS INDEPENDENT PERSONALITY, FREQUENTLY TALKS DISPARAGINGLY OF SOVAY GETS DRUNK OFTEN, IS ON POOR TERMS WITH CECS. IF CP DEVELOPS, NO FINDING NECESSARY.
