AARAAN

104-10414-10025 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DATE

SUBJECT: MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Heine S. de MOHRENSCHILDT

FILE NUMBER

1.  The Interagency (re: the 1960s)

2.  CI/OA has no record of Subject. (Phil)

3.  Check WUBRINY (ees)

4.  Check LA/Haiti (Vivian & Sturbity)

5.  DCD file - Orpin attached.

Re separate request on FRIGAUD, from (traveling Belgium passport in 1960's) - IPS has no record.

FORM 7-62

GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND
DECLASSIFICATION

---

13-00000

6 de M...

Need letter

Need policy!

hifne DDO material

reland

the call

1.  Don Messing got the offered request.

2.  See her material in file. If only refer aversion DODs T FR no problem.

Ringhor

3.  DCD material can be made available - level authority, for him to see here.

4.  Al Brodie (IB) on letter & Buck & reply haven't seen. Should

Mersey

can get for I6, but if it from DDO are would love to review it.

5.  Vivian Gardella (Haiti) has 201 file. To identify

US Emb+ we got it.), segregating this + FBI material. All check, sanitize it.

6.  Check ISR and all other on list to see what they have. (memo?)

7.  Batton says 16 anti-de Port article by Kaarlen

8.  Find out from Vivian re blest story

9.  Is it the same if / Emb & Amestic US mail?

opened it an war.

---

13-00000

Check following

de Mohrenschildt

CI/OC - Norman Olt

CI Staff (Russ Hinnes)

JMWAVE (thin Subits)

LA/Haiti (Vivian Gardella)

ISR

CCS - (Erich Isensload)

IG - (Al Birdie)

WUBRINY/1 file

April 163 - introdu. D by Clement Jagan Charles, finan

15 May 163 - Stra ADI

21 May '63

TRANSMITTAL SLIP

TO:

ROOM NO.

BUILDING

DATE 26 AN

REMARKS:

These are my notes in the G.d. M. matter. I'd like

Mindy to see if you could check

with you

of the files.

they should drain M/RM

our meeting with Tom Moore-Demed me

FROM:

ROOM NO.

BUILDING

EXTENSION

Borer & truck A

FORM NO.241
1 FEB 55
REPLACES FORM 36-8
WHICH MAY BE USED.

---

13-00000

PRIVACY ACT- to the Extent it within jurisdiction the Con this

1942 (DI No

Yugoslav-debrity by DCD

hifil-record enter till 9'61

57-58

23-24 DCD/D

63

& the GoM L

Testified before Warren Comm

Massin FB/ witch

Dec 63

Haiti

"We passed & Wan Comm

also simma om

Also

turned

Bin 1965

ONI

Man's in thei

ACSI

State

cse

Do Durin

Gale Allen

Commercial ofs port

Transferred to 1963

WUBRIJY/1

WUSALINE

John Pell (Canter Train)

still a cheat agt

Wheigh

John Barkley ing CCS

Leader

---

13-00000

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Run Holmes

will be here on Friday at 0930 (in OLC-office) to review material

Don Gayle Security had so little info that they should be done away with first. Thinks more should be ready to review DDO material @ 10-1030.

FORM
USE PREVIOUS
5-75 101 EDITIONS

Date of Dec 76
