14-00000
104-10192-10266

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

FROM: JMWAVE
ACTION: TPW 10 (MR CHARLES MATT, TFW, NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED)
INFO: DCI, DCP, ADDP, CA 2, CA/PRG, CA/PROP, S/C, PA/PROP

DATE: 27 MAY 62
AT 1830 27 MAY 62
OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE
ROUTING: 41885
OPDIP CITE WAVE 4777
GYFOSE

1. MIAMI HERALD 27 MAY CARRIES FRONT PAGE ITEM BY JAMES BUCHANAN. ENTITLED "MIRO FADES AS EXILE CHIEF: THREE LATIN LEADERS BEHIND RAY".

ARTICLE FLATLY STATES MIRO AND COUNCIL HAVE BEEN REPLACED BY MANUEL RAY WITH BLESSING OF THE KING KONCZ MARIN, PRES ROULO BETANCOURT AND FORMER PRES ISE FIGUERAS, THAT RAY HAS TAKEN OVER POST "WITH THE UNITED STATES". FURTHER, ARTICLES STATES "FROM VARIETY SOURCES HERALD UNDER-LEASHED THAT MIRO WAS NOTIFIED OF CHANGE ONLY THIS WEEK AND THAT DAYS REAPPOINTMENT AS "CHIEF IN EXILE" CAME FROM "UNDERGROUND IN CUBA" ACCORDING TO JOHN GODOY, PROVISIONAL MRP HEAD IN MIAMI.

AFTER FURNISHING RESUME CUZAN ACTIVITIES SINCE ORIGIN OF AMRUD, ARTICLE CREDITS CUBANS IN MIAMI WITH SAYING "NEW MAN IN FIELD" IS ADOLF LEY, JR. MYC HAS BEEN SPECIAL ASST TO STATE DEPT AND IS ALSO "MEMBER OF PRES KENNEDY'S SPECIAL TASK FORCE ON LATIN AMERICA". APPLICATION BEING THAT LEY IS RUNNING NEW UNITED STATES SPONSORED CUBAN EFFORT.

THIS RELEASE CAUSING SCE FUROP IN LOCAL CUBAN COLONY TO EXTENT AT LEAST ONE OPS AGENT DESTINED FOR (ISOLATION) TRAINING HAS ASKED TO BE RELIEVED IF THERE ANY TRUTH THIS STORY. MEANWHILE WAVE

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

WAVE 4077 IN 41885.

2. CHECKS WITH KNOWLEDGEABLE CONTACTS HAS PRODUCED LITTLE OTHER THAN VILLIAN S. WIRALDA'S STATEMENT THAT BUCHANAN JOURNALISTIC REPUTATION INDICATES HE INACCURATE AND SENSATIONAL IST. AN (CLATTER) AND PASSOV BY ATTEMPTING DISCREETLY TRACE BUCHANAN SOURCE FOR "U.S. BLESSING."

3. BUCHANAN HAS PREVIOUSLY ATTACKED MIRO IE DURING RETURN PLAYA GIRON PRISONERS MIAMI. HAVE NO REAL INSIGHT INFO SIGNIFICANCE THESE ATTACKS BUT BELIEVE THEY COULD REFLECT BUCHANAN OR MIAMI HERALD ATTEMPTS FORCE CHANGES IN UNITES STATES POSTURE RE CUBA.

4. EXPECT ARTICLE WILL HAVE FURTHER REPERCUSSIONS AS IT SPREADS. WISH ALERT HQS THAT IT MAY BE NECESSARY INITIATE ACTION DISCREDIT BUCHANAN STORY AS WELL AS REASSURE MIRO. WILL FORWARD SUGGESTIONS THIS REGARD AFTER WE HAVE OPPORTUNITY FURTHER ASSESS STORY'S IMPACT.

5. POUCHING CLIPPING 28 MAY

END OF MESSAGE

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.
