14-00000
104-10177-10221

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS, STAFF INTERVIEW

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: McVICKAR, JOHN AUGUSTUS JR. 201-33608

INCLUSIVE DATES: 1947-1976

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

| DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL | MATERIAL FILED IS IN CHRONOLOGICAL ORDER |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| H.9K 78. |  | Bich Crazysa) | Robert |  |

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.

---

14-00000

---

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

(when Filled In)

23 Tier 76 (date)

Review of 201 File on U.S. Citizen

In accordance with the DDO's notice of 9 December 1974, I have reviewed the 201 file on McVICKAR (surname) (201 number indicated below), and have determined that it can most accurately be categorized as indicated below:

*   Should be closed. (If this category applies, affix Records Officer stamp.)
*   Unwitting collaborator. OI Code A7. Explanation:
*   Witting collaborator. OI Code A1.
*   Potential witting collaborator; date opened: OI Code A2.
*   Former witting collaborator (relationship terminated). OI Code A3.
*   Potential witting collaborator never contacted. OI Code A4.
*   Counterintelligence case (i.e., involving a foreign intelligence or security service). OI Code A5.
*   All others. OI Code A6.

PR/SRA (title) (component)

Signed SAM H. GIRARDI

This assignment of category has been entered into STAR.

Signed (initials)

This document is a permanent part of this file. 201-33608

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET C2 IMPDET CI. BY 061475 (When Filled In)

---

14-00000

DESENSITIZED per CSN 43-43

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

DISPATCH NO. WFFA-3439

VIA: AIR

SPECIFY AIR OR SEA POUCH

CLASSIFICATION

TO: Chief, FDM

DATE: 8 November 1949

FROM: Chief, Paris Station

SUBJECT: GENERAL - SPECIFIC: John Augustus McVICKAR, Jr. 201-33608

1.  Subject is presently employed in Paris by Trans World Airline in the capacity of Special Sales Representative. He is well known to Douglas C. HARE and Eleanor T. HARTZELL, the former having known him socially for a number of years and the latter having dealt with him on transportation problems since his appointment, fifteen months ago, to the position he now occupies with TWA.

2.  Subject is also a long-time friend of UNMOVED, who brought him to our attention as a potential recruit and who has provided us with the biographical information contained in the attached personal record form No. 51-67.

3.  From what I have been able to gather from UNMOVED, as well as from HARE and HARTZELL, subject appears to be the type of individual which might be ideally suited to fulfill certain valuable operational assignments in France, such as "spotter" for other high-level potential agents, high-level contacts, cut-out, etc. All who know him agree that subject is capable of "doing anything and getting to know anyone" if he so chooses. Apparently subject, despite the "trass" which surrounds his perceptible personality, is a serious-minded, intelligent and patriotic individual who has had much experience along lines which could be of use to this organization, as well as an uncanny knack of being able to introduce and ingratiate himself into practically any milieu of interest to his work or wishes. A partial list of subject's fairly close friends, as reported by UNMOVED on Page 8-a of attachment, shows the variety of people subject knows and sees whenever they are in this area. Undoubtedly, subject himself could add a much longer list of names to those reported herein, particularly with respect to contacts in Europe.

4.  I am assured by UNMOVED that subject, despite his ability to make and keep numerous and varied friendships, is far from being a "good time Charlie". He is, on the other hand, one of those characters whom everyone likes and trusts and who goes out of their way to see as often as occasion permits. UNMOVED assures me that subject is a particularly good friend of Alberto DODERO (the Argentine shipping magnate) in France at the present time.

---

14-00000

DESENSITIZED

WFFA-3439

5\. It is our thought that perhaps, and in the cover-job he now occupies, this Station and the organization as a whole, could benefit considerably by subject's freedom of movement outside France (usually) and his ability to adapt himself to any milieu his assignments might require. Subject is a hard-working and patriotic individual.

6.  On a recent tour of inspection of the TWA circuit, Warren Lee PIERSON, Chairman of the Board of TWA, assured subject he would endeavor to secure for him an additional allotment of funds to supplement his present expense account budget. Due to budgetary restrictions this has not been possible and subject is at present seeking another more remunerative position, since he claims that his present income of approximately $666.00 monthly (including expense account) is insufficient to permit him to live in Paris and maintain the contacts and activity required by his job. According to UNMOVED, subject is at present endeavoring to secure from his good friend Benjamin KATZ (President of the Gruen Watch Co.) the sales agency for Gruen watches in Europe. Meanwhile, however, subject is not contemplating resigning his position with TWA until he has a firm and more remunerative position. UNMOVED states that subject plans to remain with TWA at least until the end of the year, by which time he may have secured something better. Subject has also had talks with James A. FARLEY (on his recent trip to France) concerning the possibility of handling the Coca-Cola agency here. Nothing has come of this possibility to date, but subject appears to be hopeful.

7.  UNMOVED is of the opinion that subject would be most receptive to a proposition of doing intelligence work and furthermore believes that if subject could supplement his present income by an additional $200 or $300 per month, he would be willing to remain with TWA, which he likes and is only considering leaving due to his present low total income, much of which is spent in connection with activities required by his position.

8.  UNMOVED has, of course, never even hinted to subject anything about his own undercover activities and is sure subject does not suspect that the former is doing anything but his cover work in France. UNMOVED, when questioned as to his opinion concerning subject's potential value as a covert agent, as well as his recruitability, has pointed out very strongly that subject, due to the very nature of his personality, must be given a good deal of operational guidance and be closely controlled. Questioned as to whether some other individual should endeavor to recruit subject, UNMOVED was of the opinion that, should the organization desire to do so, he would be best fitted to exploit subject's potential, since he has known him for a good many years and as a close friend, knows his strong and weak points and could, in general, handle subject to better advantage than another individual who might have only occasional contact with him.

9.  We request that consideration be given to the advisability of endeavoring to recruit subject and, in the event of a favorable decision, that provisional operational clearance be given in order that subject may be approached on the subject of engaging in intelligence work. With regard to whom should actually recruit subject, we suggest that HARE might safely make the first approach and, if subject accepts and final security is obtained, he might eventually be turned over to UNMOVED for exploitation.

10. We would appreciate your reactions to the desirability of recruiting subject, as well as your thoughts as to how best exploit his obvious potential.

11. If subject's recruitability is approved in principle and he is given provisional security clearance, this Station would then prepare a field project outline, to be submitted to you for approval.

DOG: jws

Encl: Personal Record Form

Dan C. Garner

Distribution: FDW Files

---

14-00000

McVICKAR

Last Name

WEFA 3489

FORM NO. 51-67

JUL 1948

DATE 25 October 1949

SECRET

Authorized Staff only

PERSONAL RECORD OF

John

First

Augustus, Jr.

Middle

Place Photograph here if available

SECRET

Authorized Staff only

---

14-00000

-2-

SECRET

Authorized Staff only

1.  FULL NAME, IN NORMAL SEQUENCE.

    John Augustus McVickar, Jr.
2.  NAME IN NATIVE SCRIPT OR OTHER APPROPRIATE CHARACTERS.
3.  NAME AT BIRTH (if different from No. 1).

    Same
4.  ALL ALIASES (give brief statement of time and place of use): (Include Nicknames Legal Changes.).

    No aliases. Nickname: "Johnny"
5.  DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH.

    12 February 1909. Long Island, N. Y., U.S.A.
6.  NATIONALITY, ALSO RACE (if appropriate).

    U.S.
7.  NATIONALITY AT BIRTH (if different from No. 6). INCLUDE ALL NATIONALITIES HELD.

    Same as above
8.  PRESENT RESIDENCE (Is he owner, tenant, sub-tenant. At whose home does he live? Telephone?).

    28 Avenue Montaigne, Paris, France. Tenant on a monthly basis, subletting from one Fred McAvoy, an Australian. Telephone: ELY 46-65
9.  PERMANENT ADDRESS (If different than present residence).

    None
10. PRESENT OCCUPATION (Give full title, indication as to earnings, etc.).

    Special Sales Representative for Trans World Airline in Paris. In addition to Paris, sales territory includes the Benelux countries. Earnings, including salary, living allowance and expense account, total approximately $666.00 monthly.

---

14-00000

3.

SECRET

Authorized Staff only

11. FATHER'S FULL NAME, NATIONALITY AT BIRTH, PRESENT NATIONALITY, PLACE OF BIRTH, PRESENT RESIDENCE.

    Father was born in U.S. and has always held U.S. citizenship. Formerly a member of U.S. Foreign Service. Living at present in retirement on Long Island, N.Y. in the home of his second son, Theodore McVIKAR. Name: John Augustus McVIKAR.
12. MOTHER'S FULL NAME, NATIONALITY AT BIRTH, PRESENT NATIONALITY, PLACE OF BIRTH, PRESENT RESIDENCE.

    U.S. citizen at birth. Now deceased.
13. HUSBAND/WIFE: FULL NAME (include maiden name of wife), NATIONALITY AT BIRTH, PLACE OF BIRTH.

    Ruth Maxwell Warner McVIKAR, nee Ruth Maxwell. U.S. citizen from birth. Born in St. Louis, Missouri, U.S.A.
14. (a) WHEN AND WHERE MARRIED.

    2 June, 1949 at Alexandria, Virginia.
    (b) NAME CHILDREN, AGE, NATIONALITY, RESIDENCE

    One daughter by a previous marriage. Barbara McVIKAR, U.S. citizen, aged 19, now living with remarried mother in San Francisco, California.
15. NAMES OF BROTHERS/SISTERS, AGES, NATIONALITY, RESIDENCE.

    Two brothers - Theodore and Rolph McVIKAR, and one sister, Dorothea DAWSON. All U.S. citizens and all living in U.S.

---

14-00000

4.

SECRET

Authorized Staff only

16. IF SUBJECT, PARENTS, OR HUSBAND/WIFE NATURALIZED, GIVE DATE AND NAME IN WHICH CERTIFICATE WAS GRANTED.

    None
17. LIST OFFICIAL IDENTITY PAPERS HELD BY SUBJECT.

    U.S. Passport No. 227

    French Identity Card

    U.S. Social Security No. 091-09-6737
18. GIVE PRESENT AND/OR PAST OFFICIAL CONNECTION WITH ANY GOVERNMENT.

    None
19. GIVE CONNECTIONS WITH ANY INTELLIGENCE SERVICE, PAST OR PRESENT. HAS SUBJECT EVER BEEN A DOUBLE AGENT? HAS SUBJECT EVER BEEN CONSIDERED THE TYPE OF AGENT WHO "SELLS HIS INFORMATION TO THE HIGHEST BIDDER? EXPLAIN.

    In 1941-1942, while Assistant General Manager of the Hotel Pierre in New York, furnished information regularly to the FBI concerning persons living in the hotel in whom the Agency was interested. This service was requested by the Agency and no payment was involved.
20. RELIGION, AND DEGREE PRACTICED. (Membership in Religious Orders.).

    Protestant. Infrequent attendant at Church.

---

14-00000

5.

SECRET

Authorized Staff only

21. POLITICAL ORIENTATION. TO WHAT CLUBS, ORGANIZATIONS, LABOR UNIONS, PARTIES, OR SOCIETIES HAS HE BELONGED?

    Republican. Never a member of any club, organization, union, party or society.
22. SOCIAL STANDING (Aristocracy, upper middle-class, lower middle-class, peasantry, etc.).

    UPPER MIDDLE CLASS
23. RECORD OF TRAVEL - OUTSIDE OF COUNTRY OF PRESENT RESIDENCE. (Under Purpose, list pertinent firms and people visited.).

    | Country | Purpose of trip | Dates |
    |---|---|---|
    | France |  |  |
    | British Isles | As a member of the Raymond-Whitcomb Cruise Operating Staff | 1932-1939 |
    | Germany | while employed by that company |  |
    | Holland | (See Employment History) |  |
    | Norway |  |  |
    | Sweden |  |  |
    | Denmark |  |  |
    | The West Indies |  |  |
    | Brazil |  |  |
    | Australia | With American Red Cross | 1942-1944 |
    | New Guinea | (See Employment History) |  |
    | Philippine Islands |  |  |
    |  | All youth spent in Europe with family, Father being in the United States Foreign Service. |  |

---

14-00000

6.

SECRET

Authorized Staff only

24. EDUCATION.

    | Name of School | Course | Degrees | Dates |
    |---|---|---|---|
    | St. Bernard's, New York, U.S.A. |  |  |  |
    | Harvey School, Paris, France |  |  |  |
    | Mejannat School, St. Cloud, s/o, France |  |  |  |
    |  | No college education. |  |  |
25. LANGUAGES AND DIALECTS (Check proficiency).

    (a)

    | Language | Read | Speak | Understand |
    |---|---|---|---|
    |  | Good-Fair-Poor | Good-Fair-Poor | Good-Fair-Poor |
    | French | Good | Good | Good |
    (b) ARE HIS LANGUAGE ABILITIES AND OTHER CHARACTERISTICS SUCH THAT HE COULD PASS HIMSELF OFF AS A NATIVE TO A COUNTRY OR REGION OTHER THAN HIS OWN?

    Possibly. French is fluent, having been spoken since childhood, but accent might be noted and typical American appearance and mannerisms difficult to disguise.
26. MILITARY SERVICE: Country, Organization. Rank, nature of duty, where service was performed, when discharged, why?

    U.S. Red Cross. Club Director. Service in Australia, New Guinea, Philippines. (See Employment History)
27. PRESENT OR PAST MEMBERSHIP IN PROFESSIONAL AND CHARITABLE SOCIETIES:

    None

---

14-00000

7.

SECRET

Authorized Staff only

28. LIST SPECIAL SKILLS, HOBBIES AND ABILITIES. (Radio, Photography, etc.).

    No hobbies. Special ability lies in salesmanship and the establishment and maintenance of personal contacts necessary to career.
29. FINANCIAL STATUS: (Earnings, Bank Accounts, Securities, Property).

    Paid approximately $666.00 monthly by Trans World Airline. Bank account with Chemical Bank and Trust Company of New York. No property or securities outside of Life Insurance Policies.
30. EMPLOYMENT HISTORY. (Include type of work done, dates, employers, and addresses.)

    Business career began in Europe. Brought up in France and speaking French, was appointed, at the age of 18, General Sales Agent for numerous American products including Jantzen Bathing Suits, Three-In-One Oil, the Franklin Motor Car and the Le Baron Motor Car. Successful with these lines, later became General Sales Agent in France for Dusenburg Motor Cars and the Packard Motor Car Company. Almost immediately after taking on Packard sales he accepted a proposition to work exclusively for the Packard Motor Car Co. Remained with the company in Paris for two years, or until early in 1931. Was then sent to the United States by the company to handle Packard sales in Buffalo, New York where he remained until the autumn of 1932.

    At that time he was approached by Raymond-Whitcomb Inc., a leading American travel company, specializing in deluxe tours and cruises, and asked to take over sales in the New York Office due to his knowledge of Europe and his contacts in Europe and the United States who were potential customers for high priced travel offerings. He went to work in the company's principal sales office at 670 Fifth Avenue and remained there until 1940. The travel business became so severely restricted after the outbreak of war in Europe that Raymond-Whitcomb Inc. was obliged to close most of its offices. Sales were at a standstill and, as he was working by his own choice on a commission basis, it was necessary for him to leave. During his eight-year tenure with Raymond Whitcomb Inc. he wrote on an average of $500,000 worth of business yearly by himself.

    After leaving Raymond-Whitcomb Inc., he took a position as Assistant General Manager of the St. Regis Hotel in New York and subsequently transferred to the Hotel Pierre in the same capacity. He remained at the Hotel Pierre until 1942.

    (Continued on Page 7 a)

---

14-00000

8.

SECRET

Authorised Staff only

31. DESCRIPTION (Use American Standards of measurement).

    AGE 40

    APPARENT AGE 40

    HEIGHT 5'10"

    WEIGHT 153 lbs.

    TEETH Good - even

    EYES Grey

    HAIR Brown-thick

    FACE-SHAPE Round

    SCARS None

    COMPLEXION Fair

    SEX Male

    BUILD Thick set

    DISFIGUREMENTS None

    PERSONAL HABITS Normal

    PROMINENT FEATURES None

    ANY TRAITS WHICH DISTINGUISH FROM OTHERS HAVING SAME GENERAL DESCRIPTION.

    No
32. HAS SUBJECT DONE ANY WRITING? GIVE DETAILS.

    None
33. WAS HE EVER A PRISONER OF WAR? GIVE DETAILS.

    No
34. WITH WHAT PEOPLE OR GROUPS DOES HE MOST OFTEN ASSOCIATE? (List several).

    Associates most often in France with the "international set", wealthy and prominent persons of all nationalities, many of whom are customers for air transportation and most of whom are friends of long standing.

    In the U.S. his contacts include persons of high social position and leaders in business and industry. This has been brought about partly by the nature of his work in selling deluxe transportation on two continents and partly by family background and early life in Europe.

    (See Page 3a for a limited list of persons with whom subject associates)

---

14-00000

SECRET

7 a

30. EMPLOYMENT HISTORY. (Continued)

    Attempting to volunteer for service in the U.S. Armed Forces he was turned down as being overweight. He then approached the U. S. Red Cross, was accepted, and sent immediately to Sidney, Australia as manager of the U.S. Officers' Club in that city. Subsequently, he served in New Guinea, and in Leyte and Manila in the Philippines.

    After two and a half years overseas he became eligible for discharge and made application to return to the United States. He went directly to Washington D.C. upon his arrival to operate there the War Service Bureau of the American Optical Company. The Bureau handled that company's business relations with foreign governments and aided implementation of U.S. Army, Navy and Air Corps contracts.

    With the war over and the War Service Bureau about to close, he refused a position with the American Optical Company Sales Division, to re-enter the Transportation field. He joined a newly-formed airline called Transair Inc., at that time one of the leading charter companies.

    Due to the uncertain position of charter lines within the aviation industry he decided to accept an offer made to him by American Airlines to go to Europe as District Traffic Manager for Holland, Belgium and Luxembourg with headquarters in Amsterdam. He remained with American Overseas Airlines until he had an opportunity to transfer to Trans World Airline which made it possible for him to return to Paris as Special Sales Representative, covering large corporation, government accounts and the motion picture industry. He has now been with Trans World Airline in Paris for fifteen months.

    For verification of his employment history the following persons are offered as references. Both are familiar with his business career and have known him personally for years. As is indicated by the above he has been employed by both.

    Henry S. WOODBRIDGE Formerly General Manager of Raymond-Whitcomb Inc. Now Assistant to the President, American Optical Company. Wardman Park Hotel Washington, D.C.

    Warren Lee PIERSON Chairman of the Board Trans World Airline, New York, N.Y.

---

14-00000

SECRET

3 a

POTENTIAL LIST OF PERSONAL CONTACTS.

United States:

David Rockefeller

Alfred Gwynne Vanderbilt

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence Tibbett (Metropolitan Opera)

Spyros Skouras (20th Century Fox)

Robert Topping

Daniel Topping

John Topping

John Ringling North

Baron George Wrangel

Dr. Herman Baruch (ex U.S. Ambassador to the Netherlands)

John Snyder (Secretary of the Treasury)

General Carlos Romulo (Philippines)

Serge Obolensky

Warren Lee Pierson (Chairman of Board - TWA)

James A. Farley (ex-Postmaster General)

George B. Wells (ex-President - American Optical)

Nancy Cases Marigny

Oscar Holcomb (Mayor of Houston, Texas)

Dorothy Spreckels (San Francisco sugar heiress)

Adolph Spreckels

Benjamin Katz (President - Gruen Watch Co.)

France:

Dean Frederick Beekman (American Pro. Cathedral, Paris)

Alberto Dodero (South American shipping magnate)

Baron and Baroness von Seidlitz.

Andre Dubonnet

Pepe Herrera (Venezuelan Minister to Sweden)

Ralph B. Strassburger

A complete list, even of closest contacts, is difficult to compile. It includes well-known persons in the moving picture industry, newspaper people, hotel executives, transportation executives, persons high in government service and in the financial world. Few men have as wide a circle of friends and acquaintances throughout the world...

---

14-00000

9.

SECRET

Authorized Staff only

35. IS CORRESPONDENCE WITH PERSONS OR FIRMS OUTSIDE COUNTRY OF PRESENT RESIDENCE? (If so, list).

    Presumably With FAMILY ONLY.

    Subject IS Alleged To Be A Very Poor Correspondent.
36. HAS HE EVER BEEN SENTENCED BY A COURT? (WHEN, BY WHAT COURT, FREQUENCY, PUNISHMENT. GIVE RECORD OF ARRESTS AND ACQUITTALS.)

    Never
37. IF APPLICABLE, GIVE INFORMATION ON DENAZIFICATION WHETHER COMPLETED, PROPOSED, OR REFUSED.
38. HOW WAS HE FIRST CONTACTED OR DEVELOPED?

    Old Friend of Sydney P. GLASER
39. COULD SUBJECT BE TURNED OVER TO SOMEONE ELSE FOR HANDLING QUICKLY AND A SECURE MANNER?

    Yes
40. WHAT IS THE BEST ESTIMATE AS TO SUBJECT'S MOTIVATION?

    Not Yet APPROACHED.

---

14-00000

10.

SECRET

Authorized Staff only

41. WITH WHAT AGENCIES AND FILES HAS SUBJECT'S NAME BEEN CHECKED? WHEN? WHAT ELSE HAS BEEN DONE TO VERIFY BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION FURNISHED BY SUBJECT?

    To Be Cleared BY HQ.

    Provisional CLEARANCE Requested.
42. ARE THERE ANY FACTORS WHICH CONTRIBUTE TO OUR CONTROL OF SUBJECT?

    None - AT PRESENT
43. DOES SUBJECT KNOW FOR WHAT SERVICE HE IS WORKING OR DOES HE KNOW THE DESTINATION OF HIS INFORMATION?

    Not Yet Recruited
44. IF POSSIBLE, ATTACH A SAMPLE OF SUBJECT'S HANDWRITING TOGETHER WITH SIGNATURE.

    WILL BE Supplied LATER.
45. IS SUBJECT (for example) WELL-INFORMED AND INTELLIGENT [X]; ILL INFORMED BUT SHREWD \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\