```markdown
92 |
(104-10291-10021)
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

NOTIFICATION OF ESTABLISHMENT OR CANCELLATION
OF OFFICIAL COVER BACKSTOP
DATE: 13 APR 78
CHIEF, CONTRACT PERSONNEL DIVISION, OP
LEFT, CONTROL DIVISION, OP 058-22-8472
EMPLOYEE NUMBER: 59198
ID CARD NUMBER:
CHIEF, PCS/CSS
(OPERATING COMPONENT FOR ACTION)
ATTN: SUPPORT STAFF
REF: RETIREMENT (CIA)
STATUS: STAFF
ESTABLISHED OFFICIAL COVER
CANCELLED X CONTRACT CONTINUED SUBJECT FILE NO. 2205
KENT, WILLIAM M.
KEEP ON TOP OF FILE WHILE COVER IN EFFECT

ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICIAL COVER (BLOCK RECORDS)
BASIC COVER PROVIDED
EFFECTIVE DATE:
OPERATIONAL COVER PROVIDED
FOR: OTHER (Specify)
CANCELLATION OF OFFICIAL COVER (UNBLOCK RECORDS)
X EFFECTIVE DATE: EOD

FORM 3254
W-2 TO BE ISSUED
TELEPHONE
LIMITATION CATEGORY TO CATEGORY. (HR 20-7)
SUBMIT FORM 642
-CIA
SUBMIT FORM 642 IMMEDIATELY TO CHANGE TELEPHONE
LIMITATION CATEGORY TO CATEGORY
(HR 20-7)
CATEGORY I
CATEGORY
X
RETURN ALL OFFICIAL DOCUMENTATION TO CCS
FORM 3254
W-2 TO BE ISSUED.
SUBMIT FORM 1322 FOR ANY CHANGE AFFECTING THIS
COVER. HR 240.
SUBMIT FORM 1323 FOR TRANSFERRING COVER
RESPONSIBILITY. EAA, CATEGORY I
SUBMIT FORM 2688
X SUBMIT FORM 2685 FOR GEHA
HOSPITALIZATION CARD.

DO NOT WRITE IN THIS BLOCK
THIS MEMO MUST REMAIN
ON TOP OF FILE
REMARKS AND/OR COVER HISTORY
Subject will be acknowledged as CIA for entire
period of employment and is not to reveal specific
places or locations of cover assignments.

CO/THB OR CFD CONTROL
OPERATING COMPONENT
DISTRIBUTION:
COPY 1
COPY 2
COPY 3
05/3RD
COPY 4
COPY 5
00/00/TFA
CCS-FILE
FORM 1551
4-77
CHIEF, OFFICIAL COVER BRANCH
CENTRAL COVER STAFF
SECRET HN-SISM
(13-20-43)
E-2. IMPOET CL. BY: 021964

--- Page 2 ---

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS
FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME:
INCLUSIVE DATES: 1959-64
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:
ROOM:
DELETIONS, IF ANY: all material outside of the 1959-1964 period is not copied
WILLIAM KENT
OPE
DATE
DATE
RECEIVED RETURNED REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFI

--- Page 3 ---

SECRET
ON CANCELLATION
BACKSTOP
REPRODUCTION MASTERS
Handle
BIOGRAPHIC PROFILE
With
Car
e

SECRET

--- Page 4 ---

SECRET
REPRODUCTION MASTERS
BIOGRAPHIC PROFILE
Handle
With
Car
e
SECRET

--- Page 5 ---

SECRET
SECURITY INFORMATION
MEMORANDUM FOR THE FILE OF: KENT, William
FROM: Office of the Personnel Director

1. On 6 June 1952 this office arranged with National
Selective Service Headquarters to have the above-named subject's active
duty orders cancelled. This action was taken because, due to his train-
ing and experience, it was felt that the subject would be of more service
to the United States as an employee of the Central Intelligence Agency
than he would be as a member of the Armed Forces.

2. Should the subject resign or otherwise be separated from CIA,
please notify this office immediately in order that this cancellation
action may be revoked and the subject will be made a free agent.

GEORGE E. MELCON
Acting Personnel Director
For the Use of PD(C) or PD(O)
Office of the Personnel Director notified on that
the subject has resigned or otherwise been separated from CIA.

(Signature)
SECRET
SECURITY INFORMATION

--- Page 6 ---

SECRET
I am aware of the fact that the Central Intelligence Agency,
by reason of the sensitive nature of its work, must observe very
strict security measures. I agree to honor the requests of CIA
relative to my application whether it be accepted or rejected. I
agree not to inform anyone that I am being considered for a posi-
tion in CIA. If questioned directly, I will say that I have applied
for positions in various government agencies, and if pressed for an
answer will acknowledge that CIA is one of them but will attach no
particular significance to such application. I agree not to dis-
close personnel procedures I have observed in CIA. I agree not to
discuss by name or otherwise, any individuals with whom I have
talked in the course of my application to CIA.

Signed: William M. Kent
Date: July 11, 1951
SECRET

--- Page 7 ---

CONFIDENTIAL
AREA KNOWLEDGE (RESIDENCE OR STUDY)
LANGUAGE FACILITY
EVALUATION AND RECOMMENDATIONS (BE COMPLETE AND JUSTIFY DECISIONS, NOTE ANY UNFAVORABLE CIRCUMSTANCES.)
a tall slime boy, dock hair brown eyes, sallow
complexion nice
State bed cover
to be
The wants a
has been warned by professors - that the
"in gout although he
salaries are similar, fots are invioure the
compared to private industry. He appears
young but not as young as he actually
also wants water types work, Specks
flount Italian and Spanish - "has worked in
Latin America (El Salvador) and her graduated from
Later He
k. Doed them
starting Helery a
is
at
FORMS GIVEN:
PHS
was 3000, but Gas Restingin
MEDICAL
RESERVE
SIGK,
OF INTERVIEW R
CONFIDENTIAL

--- Page 8 ---

CONFIDENTIAL
NAME: William Morris Kent
HOME ADDRESS: 2448
BUSINESS ADDRESS:
DATE OF BIRTH:
REFERRED BY:
THIS DATE: 7/11/51
TELEPHONE:
Washington Cove, New York. 58, my. By 86182
PLACE: Came to U.S.
DATE OF BIRTH:
PLACE OF BIRTH:
SALARY REQUESTED:
CITIZENSHIP:
HOW ACQUIRED?
1950
1939
CITIZENSHIP (HOW ACQUIRED):
INTERVIEWER:
NO. OF DEPENDENTS:
EDUCATION (SCHOOLS, DEGREES, DATES, MAJORS, EXTRA-CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES)
MAJOR EMPLOYMENT HISTORY (PRINCIPAL OCCUPATION, SPECIAL SKILLS, SALARY LEVELS)
MILITARY OCCUPATION (RANK, SERIAL NO., DATES OF SERVICE, DUTIES AND AREAS)
4-A-mily guire
10.
9837-117
(4-13)
CONFIDENTIAL

--- Page 9 ---

REPORT OF INTERVIEW
TO: CPD
VIA:
Name of Candidate: William M. Kent
Position Considered for: Admin Clerk GS-6 office,
Personality: Dignified....
appearance Well-groomed...
Wide Awake...
Impressive...
Natural...
Clean.....
12 July
FOT/050
Interviewer (sham
ward.....
S venly....
A thotic...
ignificant
Ta iturn.....
Extable...
Do uted..
Stolid....
Ordinary..
I
Responsive
Steady..
franquil..
Reserved..
Complacent
Confident.
iv...
Concnited....
Persuasive....
Imperturbable..
Cheerful.....
Straight-forward
Modest......
Dominant.......
Is education adequate? Yes (✓) ( )
Subassivo...
Arta knowledge Has lived and worked in Latin America Fluent Spanish
Is language facility adequate? Yes (✓) ( )
and gettin
Previous intelligence or related experience None
Salary level requested
Lowest Salary Acceptable
GENERAL RECOMMENDATION:
1. Candidate is not recommended for employment. Reasons:
2. Candidate is recommended for employment. Justification
Background
Position: Admin Clerk.
Location:
Branch
Div
ion
107/050
motivation, personal
SPECIFIC RECOMMENDATION for employment:
Guayaquil, Ecuador
Salary Level: 123100 GL-5
RECOMMENDATION as to potential value of candidate to the organization in other
than the position immediately under consideration:
After suitable
operations
training and field experience subject mot quality be
officer
(Enter any additional
remarks on reverse side.)
J. L. Nesham
Signature
Interviewer

--- Page 10 ---

SECRET
(When Filled In)
REQUEST FOR SECURITY CLEARANCE
NAME (LAST FIRST MIDDLE): Kent, William M.
POSITION NUMBER (13-18):
OCCUP CODE (37-42):
ASSIGNMENT (OFFICE, DIVISION, BRANCH): DDP/WH/JMPOPLAR-12
POSITION TITLE: Ops Officer
LOCATION (CITY, STATE, COUNTRY): New Orleans, La.
TYPE OF APPLICANT: REGULAR
CONTRACT
CONSULTANT
MILITARY
CONVERSION ACTION:
Luetscher
Daw H. Luetscher, Chief/CPD
CLEARANCE REQUIRED:
ATTACHMENTS:
SE-SA
PROVISIONAL FOR (INDICATE NAME OF POOL OR GROUP):
VETERANS STATUS:
REQUEST NO (1-5): 42055
REQUEST DATE (6-12): 23 June 1966
YEAR OF BIRTH (23-30): 1929
GRADE (43-44): GS-13
ORGN. CODE (45-48):
IF OTHER, SPECIFY:
TYPE OF APPL. (49):
TYPE OF ASSIGNMENT AND FUNDS: MDQTRS. FUND (50):
Covert Security Clearance
SECRET CLEARANCE (61): FULL
PERSONAL HISTORY STATEMENT
APPENDIX
PHOTOGRAPH(S)
MALE VETERAN
MALE NON-VETERAN
APPENDIX
FEMALE-VETERAN
FEMALE NON-VETERAN
REQUEST FOR WAIVER
REPORT OF INTERVIEW
RECRUIT, CODE (5-4):
VET PREF. SEX (56):
Security #: 54514
Case Officer: Maurice Currie x6032
Clearance Memo to SA/Branch/CPD
Attn: Jo Ann Varney
5 E 69 x7170
SPACE BELOW FOR OS USE ONLY
FORM
3-81
377 USE PREVIOUS EDITION
45
SECRET

--- Page 11 ---

SECRET
(When Filled in)
REQUEST NO. 11-51
73407
REQUEST DATE 6-11:
NAME (Last-First-Middle):
REQUEST FOR SECURITY CLEARANCE
POSITION TITLE:
LOCATION (City, State, Country):
ASSIGNMENT (Office, Division, Branch):
TYPE OF APPLICANT:
REGULAR STAFF
CONTRACT
CONSULTANT
SUMMER ONLY
RE-EMPLOY. MIL.
TYPE OF ASSIGNMENT AND FUNDS: USF
ATTACHMENTS:
YEAR OF BIRTH 29-30:
RECRUIT. REON. NO. 31-33:
SUB CATEGORY CODE 136):
I OTHER, SPECIFY OCUP 2008 (37-42:
APPENDIX
PROVISIONAL
FEMALE VETERAN
FEMALE NON-VETERAN
MALE VETERAN
VETERANS STATUS:
MALE-NON-VETERAN
INVITEE CLEARANCE REQUESTED
PROVISIONAL FOR
CLEARANCE REQUIRED:
NAME OF REQUESTER:
REMARKS:
YES
OTHER (Specify):
GRADE (43-44):
ORGN. CODE (45-48):
WAIVER
SPACE BELOW TO BE COMPLETED BY OS ONLY
APPROVAL GRANTED
TYPE OF APPLICANT (49):
HEADQUARTERS (50):
CLEARANCE NEEDED (51):
REQUESTER'S CODE (52-54):
VET PREF. & Sex (55):
OR. MIL. SEVI (56):
LAST DIGIT ORGN. CODE (57):
REON NO (72-74):
RECRUIT. SOURCE (7-19):
PROVISIONAL
INVITEE
THIS IS NOT A CLEARANCE FOR ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED INFORMATION, MATERIAL,
OR SECURE AREAS. A BUILDING BADGE OR AGENCY CREDENTIAL IS NOT TO BE
ISSUED AT THIS TIME.
FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY
377 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITION
13-67
SECRET
CHIEF PERSONNEL SECURITY DIVISION

--- Page 12 ---

"PAY ADJUSTMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF SECTION 5305 CF
TITLE 5, U.S.C. AND EXECUTIVE ORDER 11943 PURSUANT TO AUTHORITY OF
DCI AS PROVIDED IN THE CIA ACT OF 1949, AS AMENDED, AND DCI
DIRECTIVE DATED 8 OCTOBER 1962."
EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENT: 10 OCTOBER 1976
NAME SERIAL ORGN. FUNDS GR-STEP SALARY
KENT WILLIAM 059198 27 375 V GS 15 4 $37,187

--- Page 13 ---

GJCS 06/30/77
SERIAL NUMBER: 059198
SECRET
(When Filled in)
NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION
NAME (LAST FIRST-MIDDLE): KENT, WILLIAM
NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION: REASSIGNMENT
FUNDS: V TO V
V TO CF
CF TO V
CF TO CF
ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS: DDO/CMS
EFFECTIVE DATE: 06/23/77
CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT: REGULAR
FAN AND NSCA: 7020 0008 00021
CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY:
LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION: WASH., D.C.
POSITION TITLE: OPS OFFICER OCH
POSITION NUMBER: FS63
CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION: DYB
CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, etc): GS
OCCUPATIONAL SERIES: 0136.01
GRADE AND STEP: 15
SALARY OR RATE:
REMARKS: SCPA 1:509 8-723-75
Use Previous
Edition
SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION
POSTED: 30 Jun 77
PAA
SECRET
E2 IMPDET CL BY 0076221

--- Page 14 ---

PLF 083077
OCF
SECRET
(When Filled in)
NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION
SERIAL NUMBER: 059198
NAME (LAST FIRST MIDDLE): KENT, WILLIAM
NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION: REASSIGNMENT
EFFECTIVE DATE: 05/28/77
CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT: REGULAR
FUNDS: V TO V
CF TO V
CF TO CF
FAN AND NSCA: 17020 000B 10002
CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY: 50 USC 403 J
ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS: DDO/OFFICE OF DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR OPERATIONS
ASST DEP DIR-OPERATIONS/DEVELOPMENT
NON-OFFICIAL COVER STAFF
REFERRAL BRANCH
LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION: WASH. D.C.
POSITION TITLE: OPS OFFICER CM
POSITION NUMBER: FS63
SERVICE DESIGNATION: DYR
CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, etc): GS
OCCUPATIONAL SERIES: 0136.01
GRADE AND STEP: 15 4
SALARY OR RATE: 37167
REMARKS:
ACTION CODE: 37
Employ:
OFFICE CODING:
NUMERIC: 30125
ALPHABETIC: ODDO 75013
STATION CODE:
INTEGREE CODE:
Hdqs:
DATE OF BIRTH: 05/09/29
DATE OF GRADE:
DATE OF LE:
NTE EXPIRES:
SPECIAL REFERENCE:
RETIREMENT DATA:
SEPARATION DATA CODE:
Correction/Cancellation Data:
SECURITY:
SEX:
REQ NO:
VET PREFERENCE:
SERV. COMP DATE:
LONG. COMP. DATE:
CAREER CATEGORY:
EOD DATA:
FEGLI HEALTH INSURANCE:
SOCIAL SECURITY NO:
HEALTH INS. CODE:
PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT SERVICE
NO PREVIOUS SERVICE
LEAVE CAT:
FEDERAL TAX DATA:
STATE TAX DATA:
NO BREAK IN SERVICE
BREAK IN SERVICE LESS THAN 3 YRS
BREAK IN SERVICE MORE THAN 3 YRS
SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION
FROM: CMS
FORM 1150
5-74 Mfg 10-74
Use Previous
Edition
DMB
KENT WILLIAM M
E2 IMPDET CL BY 007622

--- Page 15 ---

SERIAL NO:
NAME: KENT, WILLIAM M
ORGANIZATION:
FUNDS:
LWOP HOURS:
059198
Grade:
Step:
OLD SALARY RATE
Salary
Effective Date
Grade:
Step:
NEW SALARY RATE
Salary
EFFECTIVE DATE
TYPE ACTION
ADJ
GS 15 4 $39.789 05/23/76 GS 15 5 $40.985 06/21/76
CERTIFICATION AND AUTHENTICATION
I CERTIFY THAT THE WORK OF THE ABOVE NAMED EMPLOYEE IS OF ACCEPTABLE LEVEL OF COMPETENCE
DAYS
MAY 17/3/78
NO EXCESS LWOP
IN PAY STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD
WOP STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD
CLERKS INITIALS
FORM
10.73 560 E
All
cap
editors
PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION
104 100 020
"PAY ADJUSTMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF SECTION 5305
OF TITLE 5 U.S.C. AND EXECUTIVE ORDER 12010 PURSUANT TO AUTHORITY
OF DCI AS PROVIDED IN THE CIA ACT OF 1949, AS AMENDED. AND DCI
DIRECTIVE DATED 8 OCTOBER 1962."
EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENT: 09 OCTOBER 1977
NAME: KENT WILLIAM
NEW NUMBER: 0059158
ORG: GS 15 4
SCH-GR-STEP: CCDC
SALARY: $39,789
8659

--- Page 16 ---

JLS 062878
VER
SECRET
(When filled In)
NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION
SERIAL N: 36/108
NAME (LAST FIRST-MIDDLE): KENT, WILLIAM
NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION: RETIREMENT (INVOLUNTARY) UNDER STATUTORY OF EMPLOYMENT
RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM
AND CANCELLATION OF NSCA
FUNDS: V TO V
CP TO V
ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS:
106 30 78
FAN AND NSCA: 8020 0008 0000
CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY: PUBLIC LAW 88-643
SECTION 235(A)
LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION: DDG/OFFICE OF DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR OPERATIONS
ASST DEP DIR-OPERATIONS/DEVELOPMENT
NON-OFFICIAL COVER STAFF
REFERRAL BRANCH
POSITION TITLE: OPS OFFICER CH
CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB etc): GS
SERVICE DESIGNATION: DYE
WASH., D.C
POSITION NUMBER: FS63
OCCUPATIONAL SERIES: 0136.01
GRADE AND STEP: 15 5
SALARY OR RATE: 40995
REMARKS:
ACTION:
Employ:
OFFICE CODING:
NUMERIC: 45
ALPHABETIC:
STATION CODE:
INTEGREE:
Hdqs:
DATE OF BIRTH: 05/09/29
DATE OF GRADE:
DATE OF LE:
NTE EXPIRES:
SPECIAL REFERENCE:
RETIREMENT DATA:
SEPARATION DATA CODE:
Correction/Cancellation Data:
SECURITY:
SEX:
REQ. NO:
V PREFERENCE:
SERV COMP DATE:
LONG. COMP. DATE:
CAREER CATEGORY:
EOD DATA:
FEGLI HEALTH INSURANCE:
SOCIAL SECURITY NO:
HEALTH INS CODE:
PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT SERVICE
NO PREVIOUS SERVICE
LEAVE CAT:
FEDERAL TAX DATA:
STATE TAX DATA:
EXEMPTIONS:
FORM EXECUTED:
CODE NO. TAX STATE CODES
EXEMPT:
YES
NO BREAK IN SERVICE
BREAK IN SERVICE LESS THAN 3 YRL:
BREAK IN SERVICE MORE THAN 3 YRS:
SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION
MR
E2 IMPDET CL BY 007622
FORM 1150
5-74 Mig 30-74
Use Previous
SECRET
Edition

--- Page 17 ---

SECRET
28 April 1960
(Date)
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Records and Services Division
Office of Personnel
SUBJECT: William M. Kent

1. Cover arrangements have been completed
for the above named subject.

2. Effective immediately it is requested
that your records be properly (blocked) to (deny) (acknowledge)
subject's current Agency employment by an external inquirer.

3. This memorandum confirms an oral request of 15 April 1960
Richard J. Biladzan
(Name)
2-1005
(Room)
Bldg
(Date)
8266
Extension,
HAR
LITTLE,
Chief, Central Cover Branch
cc: SSD/SO
THIS MEMO MUST REMAIN
SECRET

--- Page 18 ---

SECRET
File No. 2205
13 July 1961
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Records and Services Division
Office of Personnel
SUBJECT: William M. KENT

1. Cover arrangements have been com-
pleted for the above-named Subject.

2. Effective 10 July 1961 it is requested that your
records be properly blocked to deny subject's
current Agency employment to an external inquirer.

3. This memorandum confirms an oral request.
cc: SSD/OS
For
Acting Chief, Central Cover Group
FORM 1-59 15802
SECRET

--- Page 19 ---

SECRET
NOTIFICATION OF ESTABLISHMENT OR CANCELLATION
OF OFFICIAL COVER BACKSTOP
DATE: 14 Apr 70
CHIEF, RECORDS AND CONTROL
CHIEF, CONTRACT PERSONNEL DIVISION
EMPLOYEE NUMBER: 059198
TO:
(Check)
X
CHIEF, OPERATING COMPONENT (For action)
ID CARD NUMBER:
ATTN: C/WE/Support
REF:
BACKSTOP ESTABLISHED OFFICIAL COVER
DISCONTINUED SUBJECT
KENT, WILLIAM M.
UNIT: US Army Staff Group
KEEP ON TOP OF FILE WHILE COVER IN EFFECT

X ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICIAL COVER BLOCK RECORDS
(OPM 20-800-11)
A. TEMPORARILY FOR DAYS
EFFECTIVE DATE COB:
CANCELLATION OF OFFICIAL COVER UNBLOCK RECORDS
(OPM 20-200-12)
DATE (as of COB):
B. CONTINUING AS OF/DOD ROD

SUBMIT FORM 642 TO CHANGE LIMITATION CATEGORY.
(AMB 20-7)
SUBMIT FORM 642 TO CHANGE LIMITATION CATEGORY
(RNB 20-7)
ASCERTAIN THAT Army W-2 BEING ISSUED.
X (HRB 20-11)
SUBMIT FORM 1322 FOR ANY CHANGE AFFECTING THIS
X COVER. (HR-240-2)
RETURN ALL OFFICIAL DOCUMENTATION TO CCS.
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS BLOCK • FOR CCS INTERNAL USE ONLY
SUBMIT FORM 1323 FOR TRANSFERRING COVER
RESPONSIBILITY. (HR-240-2e)
X SUBMIT FORM 2688
FOR GEHA
HOSPITALIZATION CARD

REMARKS AND/OR COVER HISTORY
Dec 51 -Jun 52 DAC
Jun 52 - Jun 56 DAC/Pa
Jun 56 - Jul 58 D
Jul 58 - Mar 60 STATE!
Mar 60 - Jul 61 NOR
Jul 61 - Aug 66 DAC/
Sep 66 - Jun 67 NOC/Field (Domestic)
Jul 67 - Feb 70 NOC/Field (Domestic)
DISTRIBUTION:
COPY 1
COPY 2
COPY 3
COPY 4
COPY 5
OPERATING COMPONENT
FILE
FORM 1551 PREVIOUS EDITION
SECRET
CHIEF, OFFICIAL COVER CENTRAL COVER STAFF
(13-20-43)

--- Page 20 ---

LML: 15 JAN 73
SECRET
(When Filled in)
OCF
SERIAL NUMBER: 059198
NAME (LAST-FIRST-MIDDLE): KENT, WILLIAM
NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION: CANCELLATION OF NSCA
EFFECTIVE DATE: 01/15/73
CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT: REGULAR
FUNDS: X V TO V
V TO CF
CF TO V
CF TO CF
Financial Analysis No Chargeable
CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY: 50 USC 403 J
ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS: DDP/WH DIVISION
BRANCH 6
CA SECTION
LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION: WASH., D.C.
POSITION TITLE: OPS OFFICER
POSITION NUMBER: 1855
SERVICE DESIGNATION: D
CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB. etc): GS
OCCUPATIONAL SERIES: 0136.01
GRADE AND STEP: 14 5
SALARY OR RATE: 26168
REMARKS: G.NONE
MC
F1 PT.
2.10 PT
ACTION CODE: 37
Employ:
OFFICE CODING:
NUMERIC: 514801
ALPHABETIC: WH 75013
STATION CODE:
INTEGREE CODE:
Hdqs:
DATE OF BIRTH: 05/09/29
DATE OF GRADE:
DATE OF LE:
NTE EXPIRES:
SPECIAL REFERENCE:
RETIREMENT DATA:
SEPARATION DATA CODE:
Correction/Cancellation Data:
SECURITY:
SEX:
REQ NO:
VET. PREFERENCE:
SERV COMP DATE:
LONG COMP DATE:
CAREER CATEGORY:
EOD DATA:
FEGLI HEALTH INSURANCE:
SOCIAL SECURITY NO:
HEALTH INS CODE:
PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT SERVICE
NO PREVIOUS SERVICE
LEAVE CAT:
FEDERAL TAX DATA:
STATE TAX DATA:
NO BREAK IN SERVICE
BREAK IN SERVICE LESS THAN 3 YRS.:
BREAK IN SERVICE (MORE THAN 3 YRS.:
SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION
FORM 1150
Use Previous
Edition
Mfg. 11-71
Expected from automatic
downgrading and
declassification
When Filled in

--- Page 21 ---

"PAY ADJUSTMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH 5 U.S.C. 5305 AND EXECUTIVE ORDER
11691 PURSUANT TO AUTHORITY OF DCI AS PROVIDED IN THE CIA ACT OF 1949,
AS AMENDED, AND DCI DIRECTIVE DATED 08 OCTOBER 1962."
NAME
EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENT: 07 JANUARY 1973
EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENT CORRECTED FROM
KENT WILLIAM
JAN 1975 TO 1 OCT 1972 UNDER EXECUTIVE ORDER
11777, DATED 12 APR 1974.
NEW
SERIAL ORGN FUNDS GR-STEP SALARY
059198 51 480 V GS 14 5 $26,168

"PAY ADJUSTMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF SECTION 5305 GF
TITLE 5, U.S.C. AND EXECUTIVE ORDER 11739 PURSUANT TO AUTHORITY OF OCI
AS PROVIDED IN THE CIA ACT OF 1949, AS AMENDED, AND DCI DIRECTIVE
DATED 08 OCTOBER 1962."
EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENT: 14 OCTOBER 1973
NEW
NAME SERIAL ORGN. FUNDS GR-STEP SALARY
KENT WILLIAM 059198 51 480 V GS 14 5 $27,479

--- Page 22 ---

Serial No: 059189
Name: KENT, WILLIAM M
Cost Center Number: 51 480
LWOP Hours: V
OLD SALARY RATE
Grade: GS 14
Step: 6
Salary: #28,287
Last Eff. Date: 12-09-73
NEW SALARY RATE
Grade: GS 14
Step: 7
Salary: $29,095
EFFECTIVE DATE: 02-03-74
TYPE ACTION: ADJ.
Remarks and Authentication:
JANNEY
QUALITY STEP INCREASE
DATE: 31 JANUARY 1974
PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION
SERIAL NO: 059156
NAME: KEAT WILLIAM
Cost Center Number: 1656773
LWOP Hours:
OLD SALARY RATE
Grade: GS 14
Step: 5
Salary: $26 168
Last Eff. Date: 12/12/71
NEW SALARY RATE
Grade: GS 14
Step: 6
Salary: 27,479
EFFECTIVE DATE: 12/09/73
TYPE ACTION: ADJ
CERTIFICATION AND AUTHENTICATION
ACCEPTABLE LEVEL OF COMPETENCE
CERTIFY THAT THE WORK THE ABOVE NAVED EMPLOYERS
CLERKS INITIALS
IN PAY SANT END OF WAITING
WCP STATUS AT 2ND OF WAITING PRIC
FUN JANNEY
PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION

--- Page 23 ---

DMS: AUG 74
SCF
SERIAL NUMBER: 059190
SECRET
(When Filled in)
NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION
NAME (LAST-FIRST-MIDDLE): KENT, WILLIAM
NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION: REASSIGNMENT
EFFECTIVE DATE: 08/27/74
CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT: REGULAR
FUNDS: V TO V
V TO CF
CF TO V
CF TO CF
Financial Analysis No Chargeable
CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY: 57 USC 43
ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS: DDO/PS
CAREER MANAGEMENT GROUP
NON OFFICIAL COVER BRANCH
AREAS SECTION
LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION: WASH., D.C.
POSITION TITLE: OPS OFFICER
POSITION NUMBER: 0453
SERVICE DESIGNATION:
CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS LB etc): GS
OCCUPATIONAL SERIES: 0136.01
GRADE AND STEP: 14 7
SALARY OR RATE: 29.95
REMARKS: NONE CASE:
ACTION CODE: 37
Employ:
OFFICE CODING:
NUMERIC: 37325
ALPHABETIC: PS 75513
STATION CODE:
INTEGREE CODE:
Hdqs:
DATE OF BIRTH:
DATE OF GRADE:
DATE OF LE:
NTE EXPIRES:
SPECIAL REFERENCE:
RETIREMENT DATA:
SEPARATION DATA CODE:
Correction /Cancellation Date:
SECURITY:
SEX:
REQ NO:
VET, PREFERENCE:
SERV COME GATE:
LONG. COMP DATE:
CAREER CATEGORY:
EOD DATA:
FEGLI HEALTH INSURANCE:
SOCIAL SECURITY NO:
HEALTH INS CODE:
PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT SERVICE
NO PREVIOUS SERVICE
LEAVE CAT:
FEDERAL TAX DATA:
STATE TAX DATA:
NO BREAK IN SERVICE
BREAK IN SERVICE LESS THAN
VERY THAT
SIGNATURE OF OTHER AUTHENTICATION.
POSTED: 44926 JAR
FORM 1150
Use Previous
SECRET
BBG
E 2 IMPOET CL BY 007622

--- Page 24 ---

FOR PURPOSES OF THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT, AS AMENDED,
YOU ARE DESIGNATED EXEMPT.
EFFECTIVE DATE OF DESIGNATION: 01 MAY 1974.
KENT WILLIAM 059198 42354532

"PAY ADJUSTMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF SECTION 5305 CF
TITLE 5, U.S.C. AND EXECUTIVE ORDER 11811 PURSUANT TO AUTHORITY OF OCI
AS PROVIDED IN THE CIA ACT OF 1949, AS AMENDED, AND OCI DIRECTIVE
DATED 08 OCTOBER 1962."
EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENT: 13 OCTOBER 1974
NAME SERIAL ORGN. FUNDS GR-STEP SALARY
NEW
KENT WILLIAM 059198 37 325 V GS 14 7 $30,699

--- Page 25 ---

SEPT 75
SECRET
(When Filled in)
NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION
SERIAL NUMBER: 05.9198
NAME LAST-FIRST MIDDLE: KENT WILLIAM
NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION: REASSIGNMENT-CHANGE OF
FUNCTIONAL CATEGORY
EFFECTIVE DATE: 08/27/75
CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT: REGULAR
FUNDS: V TO V
V TO CF
CF TO V
CF TO CF
FAN AND NSCA: 6221 0117 0000
CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY: 50 USC 403 J
ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS: DDO/PLANS STAFF/CAREER MANAGEMENT GROUP
NON OFFICIAL COVER BRANCH
AREAS SECTION
LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION: WASH., D.C.
POSITION TITLE: OPERATIONS OFFICER
POSITION NUMBER: BL12
SERVICE DESIGNATION: DQS
CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, etc): GS
OCCUPATIONAL SERIES: 0136.01
GRADE AND STEP: 14 7
SALARY OR RATE: 30699
ACTION CODE: 37
Employ:
OFFICE CODING:
NUMERIC: 37325
ALPHABETIC: PS 75013
STATION CODE:
INTEGREE CODE:
Hdqs:
DATE OF BIRTH: 05/09/29
DATE OF GRADE:
DATE OF LE:
NTE EXPIRES:
SPECIAL REFERENCE:
RETIREMENT DATA:
SEPARATION:
Correction Concellotion Cata:
SECURITY:
SEX:
REQ NO:
VET, PREFERENCE:
SERV. COMP. DATE:
LONG, COMP, DATE:
CAREER CATEGORI:
EOD DATA:
FEGLI HEALTH INSURANCE:
SOCIAL SECURITY NO:
HEALTH INS. CODE:
PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT SERVICE
NO PREVIOUS SERVICE
LEAVE CAT:
FEDERAL TAX CATA:
STATE TAX DATA:
NO BREAK IN SERVICE
BREAT IN SERVE LESS THAN 3 RS:
SERVICE MORE THAN 3 YRS
SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION.
FORM 1150
5-74 Mig 10-74
Use Previous
SECRET
E2 IMPORT CL BY 097622