14-00000
(104-10167-10366)

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

TDCS INFORMATION REPORT
J. Langdon:jg
TFW/Intel/Reports
5547
24 August 1962

TDCS DB-3/651,144
DATE DISTR 24 August 1962

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
(When Filled In)

ROUTING
CI/OPS, CI/IC, FI, FI/D, FI/INT 5, IN 2, CA 2, CA/PRG, OS, WH 9

2417 58.62
RABLE SECT. 2

TFW/R : 2 TFW PA-PROP 2
TFW/INT 2 TFW WAVE 1
TFW/FI 2 TFW/SI 1
TFW/CI 2
TFW/PM 1 OS/SSD/Bauman 1

EVALUATION
REQUESTED
OF
STATE
ARMY
NAVY
AFR

HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS
CONTROLLED DISSEM

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE
BASED ON (Fld. Rpt. Proj.)
PACY-8333 (IN-46636)
NP HIF-1) 02
PACY-8349 (IN-49327)
NP HYHULA-1102
WAVE-7053 (IN-45475)
NP AYBUD

WH/PACY 1
WH/3/CR 1
WH/3/P 2

Liaison
Thuge
Ryan file
Varone

DD/P INTERNAL USE ONLY
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFICERS)
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
(When Filled In)
WH/3/P/R
RELEASING OFFICER
Koppel 03
Job
for aco
C/TFW intel
COPY NO.
318R

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs.
793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CLASSIFICATION-DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
S-E-C-R-E-T
CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY
CUBA/PANAMA

SUBJECT
ATTEMPT OF ANTONIO VARONA, OF
CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL, TO
OBTAIN SUPPORT OF PRESIDENT
CHIARI OF PANAMA IN ACTION TO
OVERTHROW CASTRO REGIME

DATE OF INFO.
14-21 AUGUST 1962

PLACE & DATE ACQ.
PANAMA, (PANAMA CITY (15-21 AUGUST 1962)

APPRAISAL
2

REPORT NO. TDCS DB-3/651,144
DATE DISTR 24 AUGUST 1962
PRECEDENCE ROUTINE
REFERENCES
IN -46636
IN-49327
IN-45475

FIELD REPORT NO.

SOURCE
PARA 1: PANAMANIAN (F) [CLOSE TO PRESIDENT CHIARI] PARAS 2-3:
PANAMANIAN (C) WITH CONTACTS IN HIGH-LEVEL OFFICIAL CIRCLES.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

1. ON 15 AUGUST 1962 ANTONIO VARONA LOREDO, DEPUTY CHIEF OF
THE CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL (CRC), VISITED PRESIDENT ROBERTO
CHIARI OF PANAMA AND REQUESTED CHIARI TO ORGANIZE AND HOST A MEET-
ING OF CENTRAL AMERICAN CHIEFS OF STATE ON THE CUBAN ISSUE WITH
EMPHASIS ON INFILTRATION OF CASTRO AGENTS INTO CENTRAL AMERICA.
VARONA SAID THAT SUCH A MEETING SHOULD BE HELD AT A VERY EARLY
DATE AND THAT CHIARI SHOULD INVITE PRESIDENT KENNEDY TO ATTEND.
CHIARI TOLD VARONA THAT THIS WOULD BE A MOST SERIOUS UNDERTAKING
REQUIRING INTENSIVE STUDY AND THAT HE COULD MAKE NO COMMITMENT
TO VARONA ON THE MATTER. ON 16 AUGUST VARONA LEFT PANAMA FOR
SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA, SAYING HE WOULD RETURN TO PANAMA ON

CLASSIFICATION-DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
S-E-C-R-E-T
CONTROLLED DISSEM

STATE
ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS
SECDEF NSA
NIC
USIA OCI ONE JOCK ORR
INS REPCINCLANT
DIA FBI

TDCSDB-3/651,144
PAGE 2

2. ON 20 AUGUST AND HOPED TO TALK TO PRESIDENT CHIARI AGAIN AT THAT TIME.

3. ON 20 AUGUST A GROUP OF CUBAN EXILES IN PANAMA CALLED ON
MARCOS ROBLES, PANAMANIAN MINISTER OF GOVERNMENT AND JUSTICE, AND
REQUESTED ROBLES TO TRY TO PERSUADE PRESIDENT CHIARI TO PERMIT THE
ESTABLISHMENT IN PANAMA OF A TRAINING BASE FOR CUBAN EXILES

4. ON 21 AUGUST PRESIDENT CHIARI SAID THE MAIN PURPOSE OF
VARONA'S VISIT WAS TO REQUEST CHIARI'S APPROVAL OF A TRAINING
BASE IN PANAMA, AND THAT HE HAD TOLD VARONA HE WOULD TAKE THE
MATTER UNDER CONSIDERATION. HOWEVER, CHIARI DISCUSSED IT WITH
MEMBERS OF HIS GOVERNMENT SUBSEQUENTLY AND IT WAS AGREED THAT
PERMISSION WOULD NOT BE GRANTED FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A
TRAINING SITE.

5. HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: ON 13 AUGUST DR. JOSE MIRO CARDONA,
PRESIDENT OF THE CRC, SAID IN MIAMI THAT VARONA WAS LEAVING MIAMI
14 AUGUST ON A TRIP TO PANAMA AND COSTA RICA. MIRO SAID THAT THE
PURPOSE OF THE TRIP WAS GENERAL PUBLIC RELATIONS WITH NO
PARTICULAR MOTIVE IN MIND. HE MENTIONED THAT VARONA WOULD SEE
PRESIDENT CHIARI WHILE HE WAS IN PANAMA TO DISCUSS THE CUBAN
PROBLEM IN GENERAL AND ATTEMPT TO ENLIST "FURTHER SUPPORT FOR
THE CAUSE." HE SAID VARONA WOULD ALSO INQUIRE OF CHIARI WHETHER
THERE WERE ANY NEW DEVELOPMENTS ON A SUGGESTED MEETING OF THE

CASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
S-E-C-R-E-T/CONTROLLED DISSEM

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
S-E-C-R-E-T/CONTROLLED DISSEM
IN-46636
-49327
-45475
TDCSDB-3,651,144
PAGE 3

FOREIGN MINISTERS OF CENTRAL AMERICA WHICH HAD BEEN DISCUSSED
WHEN HE (MIRO) WAS IN THE AREA IN JUNE. THERE WERE APPARENTLY
REASONS FOR VARONA'S TRIP OTHER THAN THE OSTENSIBLE ONES STATED
BY MIRO. THERE ARE RUMORS THAT SOME MEMBERS OF THE CUBAN EXILE
COMMUNITY IN MIAMI ARE MAKING EFFORTS TO OBTAIN HELP IN
CONVINCING PRESIDENT CHIARI TO PERMIT THE ESTABLISHMENT IN
PANAMA OF A CUBAN GOVERNMENT-IN-EXILE HEADED BY DR. MIRO CARDONA.

6. FIELD DISSEM:
CINCARIB, CINCLANT
END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION – DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
S-E-C-R-E-T/CONTROLLED DISSEM
