104-10071-10060
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
INSTRUCTIONS
PRIOR TO FILING
1. Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back flap and forward to RID. If file no. and title shown are not proper, insert proper file no. below and forward document to RID/AN.
2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records significant action taken or comments requiring preservation.

TO: ACTION BRANCH 4-63
FROM: RID/
PROPER FILE NO.

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES
FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK, IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS
1. MR. CBER-CI OP/00
2. MR. TOTH - DO/I/B/ (H19)
3.
4. of possible interent too.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.

FILE TITLE: "Peace" Demonstrations
FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE): 7528
DOCUMENT DATE: 11 Oct 67
DOCUMENT NUMBER: UWCA 03510

FROM: Chief of Base, Washington
SUBJECT: "Peace" Demonstrations
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES: DIRECTOR 39871
CLASSIFICATION: RYBAT/SECRET
TO: Chief, DO/I
INFO: C/DO/I
PROCESSING ACTION: MARKED FOR INDEXING
X NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK CAN JUDGE INDEXING
MICROFILM

1. Enclosed for Headquarters information are copies of literature mailed by the Catholic Association for International Peace (CAIP) to its members (attachments 1, 2 and 3) concerning "Negotiation Now!"

2. Also enclosed as of possible interest are copies of CAIP materials (attachments 3, 4 and 5) concerning its 40th Annual Conference, scheduled for October 27 - 29, the theme of which is "Selective Conscientious Objection in an Age of Conflict." The conference is to be held at Dunbarton College of Holy Cross, 2935 Upton Street N.W., Washington, D. C.

3. The above items were received by Oliver H. CORBUSTON who had joined the CAIP for cover purposes in the course of a previous assignment. Attachments 1, 2 and 3 are forwarded in response to reference.

Attachments: As stated

Distribution:
3 - Chief, DO/I w/atts
1 - Chief, DO w/o att

Oliver H. CORBUSTON

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: UWCA-3510
CLASSIFICATION: RYBAT/SECRET
CS COPY DATE: 11 October 1967
HQS FILE NUMBER: 7528
