104-10073-10133 [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

NO. PAGES
REFERENCES
DATE OF INFO.
PLACE & DATE ACQ.
SOURCE

14 Jul 61
June 1961 and Earlier
June 1961
Cuban national, residing in the US.
Source is a personal and political friend of former President Carlos Prio Socarras and held positions of Cabinet rank during Prio's administration.
[Source is normally available for reinterrogation should this report generate additional requirements.]
[This report was developed by an Army representative assigned to the office of preparation.]
I have been informed by contacts within pro-Fidel Castro groups that Castro agente in the US are attempting to determine whether there are any military training camps.

act location and operation of the Cie.
Airp being further determined.

berco Nunez, former aide to the late Pilo Banos, former employee of the Jose Marti International
of Rebel Army Captain Angel Banos; who arrived in the US
Sutierrez Menoyos Jesus Dieguez and Eva Gutierrez, not identified.

STATE
ARMY
NAVY
AIR

INFORMATION REPORT
OFORN
FB:
File Branch
CI/ Liaison
AR-1/Auto
W4-304

INFORMATION REPORT
NO DISSEM ABROAD
LIMITED: Dissemination limited to full-time employees of CIA, AEC and FBI; and, within State and Defense, to the intelligence components, other services producing NIS elements, and higher echelons with their immediate supporting staffs. Not to be disseminated to consultants, external projects or reserve personnel on short term active duty (excepting individuals who are normally full-time employees of CIA, AEC, FBI, State or Defense) unless the written permission of the originating office has been obtained through the Assistant Director, for Central Reference, CIA.
Background Use Only.
Do Not Reproduce
LIMITED
#0980
