[2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

104-10048-10252

BOGOTA

SECURITY INFORMATION

CONFIDENTIAL

Report No: TLB-1694 Local File No:

No. of Enclosures: None No. of Pages: 2

Report Made By: Vincent/maf

Distribution:

Approved By: Gangoly

By copy to:

Orally to:

Washington
Havana
Guatemala City
Caracas
Maracaibo
Files-2
Quito -1
Guayaquil

Reference: None

Source Cryptonym: See below

Source, Operational Data, and Comments:

The information in this report was obtained from a local detective who works for the National Police. An informant of the Police in Paris provided a report to the latter concerning activities of the Colombian delegation, and he added names of delegates of certain other countries. This informant is studying in Paris and he accompanied the delegates to Berlin. It is likely that the interested stations have this information, but it is thought it might serve to confirm, or possibly add a bit to, the material already on hand.

SECURITY INFORMATION

CONFIDENTIAL

Subject: Delegates to Youth Festival in Berlin

Report No: TLB-1884

Place Acquired: Bogotá

Evaluation:

Source: Local Detective

Date of Information: August-September 1951

Date Acquired: January 1952

Date of Report: 29 January 1958

Source reports that an informant in Paris has submitted information to the local Police concerning delegates of certain other countries to the III Festival Mundial de la Juventud held in Berlin in August and September 1951. These names together with the comments of the informant are included in the following paragraphs.

The delegation of Guatemala consisted of the following:

Edelberto TORRES Rivas, Novena Ave.

Octavio REYES Ortis, 17 C. O. No. 78

Huber BARRIOS Klee, 12 Calle Oriente No. 58

José Victor GONZALEZ, 2 Ave. Sur No. 11

In addition to these four who were from Paris:

ALVARADO Qual

Ilana CHAVEZ

List of the Venezuelan delegates following:

Juvenal HERRERA, estudiante de derecho

Francisco MIERES, peligroso

Cordova ARMANDO, estudiante de derecho

Nicolas CURIEL Acosta, escritor de teatro.

Juan Pedro ROJAS, pintor

Yolanda Steffens de ROJAS, casada con el anterior

Ecuadoran delegates are as follows:

Enrique GIL Gilbert, escritor

Enrique QUINTERO

Patricio CUEVAS, estudiante de medicina en Praga

The delegation of Cuba consisted of the following:

Nicolas GUILLEN, poeta y escritor

Santiago GRAJALES, obrero

Antonio NUNEZ-Jimenez, (profesor) de Pedagogía y "responsable de la delegación de Cuba". Es peligroso y cuando hubo necesidad de retratarlo en París no se dejó.

Francisco GARCIA Benites, comerciante de Holguin

José CANETTI, comerciante en Santiago de Cuba

Classification: CONFIDENTIAL

SECURITY INFORMATION
