```markdown
14-00000

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

At 30 June 1967

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

R-1835

SECRET

TO: JMWAVE

PRIORITY

KAPOK TYPIC AMCLEVE/15

REF: DIRECTOR 15805

CITE DIRECTOR 15915

1. REQUEST STATION TRACES ALBERT LARRAIN MAESTRE.

2. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE ADVISES HE A FUGITIVE UNDER NARCOTICS
   ENDICTMENT AND ALLEGEDLY ADMITTED TO ANCLEVE-15 HIS INVOLVEMENT IN
   BOMBINGS WITH ROSENTHAL. REQUEST STATION COMMENT ANCLEVE-15 EVER
   RECEIVE SUCH ADMISSION FROM LARRAIN MAESTRE.

3. NO HQS TRACES.

END OF MESSAGE

TAX V. BROE
C/WHD

EARL WILLIAMSON
AC/WH/COG

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

COPY NO.

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

X-REF TO FILE NO.

DESTROY SIG.

SECRET 302022Z CITE JMWAVE 7953

PRIORITY DIRECTOR

KAPOK TYPIC AMCLEVE/15

REFERENCE: A. DIRECTOR 15805
           B. DIRECTOR 15915

1. ANSWERS KEYED TO QUESTIONS IN REF A AS FOLLOWS:
   A. AMCLEVE/15 DID NOT VOLUNTEER SELF TO LOCAL
      FBI. HE DID REPORT TO JMWAVE, WHICH IN TURN INFORMED FBI.
      FBI THEN APPROACHED AMCLEVE/15 ON THEIR OWN DURING LATE
      JULY 65 AND QUESTIONED HIM ABOUT JULY 65 DEAL.
   B&C. JMWAVE INFORMED FBI ON 24 JULY 65 (SEE A
        ABOVE)
   D. SINCE AMCLEVE/15 FAILED TO REPORT OCT 66
      TRANSACTION TO JMWAVE UNTIL 9 JUNE 67, FBI NOT NOTIFIED
      UNTIL 15 JUNE 67. AMCLEVE/15'S EXPLANATION FOR NOT
      REPORTING OCT 66 TRANSACTION WAS THAT HE "JUST FORGOT")
   E. SEE PARA 2 BELOW.
   F. SOURCES WERE LOCATED IN THE MIAMI AREA ONLY.
   G. AMCLEVE/15 CLAIMS HE DID NOT RECEIVE ANY MONEY
      FOR OCT 66 TRANSACTION; ONLY MONEY AMCLEVE/15 EVER REPORTED

SECRET

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

SECRET
PAGE 2 JMWAVE 7953 SECRET

RECEIVING WAS $500 FROM ROSENTHAL DURING JULY 65.
ROSENTHAL HAD INSISTED AMCLEVE/15 TAKE $500 TO AVOID ANY
ROSENTHAL SUSPICION OF ANCLEVE/15, LATTER WAS INSTRUCTED
BY JMWAVE TO TAKE THE MONEY. AMCLEVE/15 WAS ALLOWED BY
STATION TO KEEP THE $500.

2. AMCLEVE/15 UNABLE TO RECALL ALL DETAILS OF JULY
   65 DEAL. AMCLEVE/15 CLAIMS HE ONLY PASSED TO DIEGO
   (BORGES) TORRES (201-284161) 6 GRENADES WHICH AMCLEVE/15
   OBTAINED FROM HERMINIO (DIAZ) SANDALIO (201-203048).
   BORGES IN TURN PASSED THEM TO ROSENTHAL. (BORGES AND
   NORMAN ROTHMAN WERE ACTING AS AGENTS FOR ROSENTHAL).
   FRANCISCO (RODRIGUEZ) TAMAYO (201-293114) MADE SILENCERS.
   RODRIGUEZ AND AMCLEVE/15 JOINTLY DELIVERED THEM TO BORGES.
   JMWAVE RECORDS DO NOT SHOW WHERE DIAZ OBTAINED THE GRENADES.

3. AS REPORTED IN REF AMCLEVE/15 IS CURRENTLY WORKING
   WITH THE FBI AND FOLLOWING THEIR INSTRUCTIONS RE ROSENTHAL.

4. AMCLEVE/15 REPORTED LARRAIN INFO TO FBI AND TO JMWAVE
   ON 27 JUNE 67 STATING, HOWEVER THAT IT WAS ONE DOMINGO
   (CHEMENDIA) ESCALANTE (201-297940) WHO HAD SAID THAT"

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000

SECRET
PAGE 3 JMWAVE 7953 SECRET

OF BOMBINGS AND ROTHMAN WAS THE BOSS.

5. WOULD APPEAR HQS JUSTICE QUERIES BASED ON FBI
   REPORTING FROM MIAMI. WOULD IT BE OF ANY HELP IF WE GOT
   TOGETHER WITH BUREAU HERE TO RESOLVE IN LOCO (INFO HQS)
   ANY FURTHER QUESTIONS?

SECRET

BT

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000

TO: Chief, WH

FROM: Chief of Station, JMWAVE

SUBJECT: AMCLEVE/15 Contact with Frank "Lefty" ROSENTHAL

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES
Reference: JMWAVE-7900, 27 June 1967.

Transmitted under separate cover per reference
are copies of three JMWAVE memoranda to the FBI dated 24
July and 11 August 1965, and 15 June 1967. Subject:
Procurement of Arms and Munitions by American Group.

Gary L. FLUSTIKOFF

Attachments -
Memos (3)

Distribution:
WH/COG

UFCA-27903

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000

DATE: 29-June-1967

R.A Ortman

WH/COG/HO

SECRET

TO: JMWAVE

PRIORITY KAPOK TYPIC AMCLEVE/15

REF: JMWAVE 7900

CITE DIRECTOR 15805

1. FOLLOWING QUERIES FROM JUSTICE DEPARTMENT HAVE EMERGED
   FROM MEETINGS WITH OFFICE GENERAL COUNSEL. REQUEST REPLIES
   SOONEST.
   A. DID AMCLEVE/15 VOLUNTEER HIMSELF TO LNERGO OR DID
      THEY APPROACH HIM INITIALLY. DATE FIRST AMCLEVE/15 CONTACT LNERGO.
   B. WHO INFORMED LNERGO OF JULY 1965 DEAL.
      ANCLEVE/15 OR JMWAVE.
   C. ON WHAT DATE WAS LNERGO INFORMED.
   D. SAME INFO B AND C ABOVE FOR OCTOBER 1966 TRANSACTION.
   E. WHAT WERE AMCLEVE/15'S SOURCES FOR ITEMS OR COMPONENTS.
   F. WERE THOSE SOURCES WITHIN OR WITHOUT STATE OF
      FLORIDA.
   G. JUSTICE HAS INFO TO EFFECT THAT ANCLEVE/15 MADE
      PROFIT ON OCTOBER 1966 TRANSACTION WHICH HE ATTEMPTED TURN IN

-CONTINUED-

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

COPY NO.

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000

DATE:

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

SECRET

TO "THE COMPANY" WITHOUT SUCCESS. PLEASE COMMENT.

2. ALSO PLEASE ELABORATE ON STATEMENT PARA 2 REF THAT "PER
   JMWAVE INSTRUCTIONS AMCLEVE/15 COOPERATED WITH BORGES AND
   ROSENTHAL BY ACTING AS INTERMEDIARY IN PASSING SILENCERS AND
   GRENADES."

3. JUSTICE HAS SUGGESTED POSSIBILITY USE AMCLEVE/15 TO ASSIST
   ROSENTHAL OBTAIN ADDITIONAL MATERIAL AS BASIS FOR ARREST OF
   ROSENTHAL FOR HAVING POSSESSION OF SUCH MATERIALS. APPRECIATE
   JMWAVE COMMENTS.

END OF MESSAGE

OGC Mr. Bladergroen (draft)

Mr. Mahoney (draft)

William V.. Broe
C/WHD

Earl Williamson
AC/WH/COG

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

COPY NO.

--- Page 8 ---

14-00000

SECRET 272315Z CITE JMWAVE 7980

PRIORITY DIRECTOR

KAPPY TYPIC ANCLEVE/15

REF DIRECTOR 14671

1. ANCLEVE/15 CURRENTLY COOPERATING WITH LOCAL
   FBI IN INVESTIGATION OF FRANK "LEFTY" ROSENTHAL.

2. ANCLEVE/15 INITIALLY BECAME INVOLVED WITH
   ROSENTHAL IN JULY 65 WHEN DIEGO EMILIANO (BORGES)
   TORRES (201-284161) INTRODUCED HIM TO ROSENTHAL AND
   NORMAN ROTHMAN. (BORGES WAS AGENT FOR ROSENTHAL
   IN PURCHASE OF WEAPONS AND EXPLOSIVES). PER JMWAVE.

   INSTRUCTIONS AMCLEVE/15 COOPERATED WITH BORGES AND
   ROSENTHAL BY ACTING AS INTERMEDIARY IN PASSING
   SILENCERS AND GRENADES FROM HERMINIO (DIAZ)
   SANDALIO (201-203048) AND FRANCISCO RODRIGUEZ
   TAMAYO (201-293114) TO BORGES WHO IN TURN PASSED
   THE MATERIAL TO ROSENTHAL.

3. LOCAL FBI WAS NOTIFIED AT THE TIME BUT
   AFTER ABOUT ONE WEEK JMWAVE INSTRUCTED ANCLEVE/15
   TO WITHDRAW HAVING DISCOVERED THAT GROUP WITH WHICH

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000

PAGE 2 JMWAVE 7988 SECRET

HE WAS IN CONTACT WAS COMPOSED OF GANGSTER ELEMENTS.

4. FROM JULY 65 TO CIRCA OCT 66 ANCLEVE/15 NOT
   INVOLVED WITH ROSENTHAL ALTHOUGH AT VARIOUS TIMES
   ROSENTHAL CALLED ANCLEVE/15 AND ASKED HIS HELP
   OBTAIN WEAPONS AND EXPLOSIVES WHICH AMCLEVE/15
   REFUSED. AROUND OCT 66 ROSENTHAL CONTACTED AMCLEVE/15
   AT LATTERS RESIDENCE AND THREATENED HIM BECAUSE
   EQUIPMENT SUPPLIED BY BORGES TO ROSENTHAL WAS FAULTY.
   AMCLEVE/15 THEN MADE AND GAVE ROSENTHAL 150 PENCILS
   AND 50 FUSE DEVICES WHICH SEEMED TO SATISFY ROSENTHAL

5. AMCLEVE/15 DID NOT REPORT PARA FOUR ABOVE TO
   JMWAVE UNTIL 9 JUNE 67 AFTER ROSENTHAL HAD AGAIN
   CONTACTED HIM ON 6 JUNE 67, THREATENED HIM AND ASKED
   HIM FOR MORE EQUIPMENT. LOCAL FBI WAS ADVISED BY
   JMWAVE ON 15 JUNE 67 OF AMCLEVE/15 ROSENTHAL CONTACTS
   OF OCT 66 AND 6 JUNE 67.

6. AS REPORTED IN PARA 3 OF REF AMCLEVE/15
   CURRENTLY TRYING TO SUPPLY ROSENTHAL UNDER INSTRUCTIONS
   LOCAL FBI. FBI HAS PROMISED MAXIMUM SECURITY AND

--- Page 10 ---

14-00000

PAGE 3 JMWAVE 7922 SECRET

PROTECTION FOR ANCLEVE/15. FBI HAS NOT NOTIFIED LOCAL
POLICE DUE POSSIBILITY POLICE PENETRATED BY GANGSTER
ELEMENT.

7. ANCLEVE/15 CLAIMS NONE OF MATERIAL PREVIOUSLY
   SUPPLIED ROSENTHAL WAS OF WOFACT ORIGIN; HE ALSO CLAIMS HE
   NEVER SUPPLIED ROSENTHAL WITH C-4 EXPLOSIVES.

8. NO ADDITIONAL JMWAVE INFO ROSENTHAL AND
   ROTHMAN. NO OPS INTEREST BORGES RODRIGUEZ. DIAZ.

POUCHING HQS COPIES OF JMWAVE MEMOS TO FBI
UFGA-27888.

SECRET

BT

--- Page 11 ---

14-00000

28 June 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Luis Clements POSADA-Carriles

REFERENCES: a. Memo for Record, 26 June 1967, by LRH,
               same subject
            b. Williamson/Henze Telephone Conversation,
               28 June 1967

1. In my meeting with the Department of Justice today, I
   confirmed that POSADA-Carriles was our man. I outlined the pre-
   liminary information we had developed on the transactions between
   him and one Lefty Rosenthal.

2. Justice was advised that our information disclosed that
   POSADA-Carriles had passed silencers and grenades to Rosenthal
   during July 1965, and that in October 1966 he had furnished pencils
   and fuses. I also stated that it was our understanding that POSADA-
   Carriles was in contact with FBI/Miami and that it had been advised
   of these dealings. Justice was told that the items involved were not
   of Agency origin. It was emphasized, however, that this was our
   preliminary conclusion and that we would undertake to verify it.

3. Justice acknowledged that FBI reporting disclosed
   POSADA-Carriles as its contact but apparently the details are some-
   what vague. To make a federal case against Rosenthal because of his
   suspected involvement in the bombings, it will be necessary to show
   that the items used were obtained through interstate commerce. A
   preliminary reading suggests prosecution under Title 18 Section 837.
   Out of concern for the allegation of entrapment, Justice asked that

--- Page 12 ---

14-00000

we supply answers to the following: (a) did POSADA-Carriles
volunteer himself to the FBI or did it approach him initially;
(b) who informed the FBI of the July 1965 deal - the Agency or
POSADA-Carriles; (c) on what date was this information given;
(d) similarly as regards the October 1966 transaction, the date
the information furnished and by whom; (e) what were POSADA-
Carriles sources for the items or their components; (f) were
these sources within or without the State of Florida? And inci-
dentally were we aware that supposedly POSADA-Carriles realized
"profit" for furnishing the October 1966 items and that he tried
without success to turn it into the "company"? While I agreed to
undertake to obtain the information requested, I suggested that
much of it might be readily available from the FBI. Justice con-
ceded this and intends to have further discussions with it.

4. During the course of the meeting the interesting
   hypothesis was suggested to the effect that POSADA-Carriles
   might have been "moonlighting" for Rosenthal, and only when he
   began to feel the pressure did he start reporting to the Agency and
   the FBI.

5. Under strictly controlled conditions with POSADA-
   Carriles acting as a conduit, Justice is considering the possibility
   of assisting Rosenthal to obtain his needed items, whereupon he
   will be arrested immediately for possession. I told them while we
   might be willing to have POSADA-Carriles so used we were under-
   standably concerned over the adverse comment that our employee's
   involvement could generate.

6. On a matter that may be related: one Albert LARRAIN
   Maestre is alleged to have admitted to POSADA-Carriles that he has
   been involved in the bombings with Rosenthal and to have said more
   explosives were needed. LARRAIN Maestre is a fugitive under a
   narcotics endictment having formerly resided at 153 East 57th Street,
   New York, New York. Do we have any information on this person?

ROBERT J. BLADERGROEN
Assistant General Counsel

OGC:RJB:mej

Distribution:
Original - Subject
        - Signer
1 - Chrono

--- Page 13 ---

14-00000

WILLIAMSON NOTES ON
28 JUNE TELECON W. HENZE

Amcleve/15 currently cooperating FBI

Became involved in July 65

On station instructions cooperated as intermediary in passing stuff--
silencers and grenades--at that FBI informed

Instructed to withdraw

Until Oct 66 -- was threatened -- asked to make or obtain
At this point he made certain things 150 pencils. Did not tell
station until fairly recently

Then put in touch with LNERGO 6 June told 9 June told FBI 15 June

$350.00

FBI man called up north

15 wants their assistance "to disappear"

Probably not losing a great deal

--- Page 14 ---

14-00000

28 June 1967

NOTE FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Telephone Conversation - Williamson/Henze, 1015 hours,
         28 June 1967

1. Station reply sent 1640 hours 27 June (JMWAVE 7900).

2. AMCLEVE/15 currently on Station roles at $350 per month.
   He has been cooperating with FBI.

3. During July 1965, 15 introduced to Rosenthal by third party.
   On Station instructions he cooperated with Rosenthal acting as inter-
   mediary in passing to him silencers and grenades. FBI informed.

4. In accordance with Station instructions, 15 broke off
   contact with Rosenthal.

5. On October 1966, 15 recontacted by Rosenthal. Rosenthal
   demanded he make or obtain additional items threatening him with bodily
   harm and also complaining previous items faulty. Whereupon 15
   furnished Rosenthal 150 pencils and some fuses. Station only recently
   advised of this transaction and 15 put in contact with FBI.

6. Items furnished July 1965 and October 1966 transactions
   not Agency origin.

7. On 6 June, 15 again contacted by Rosenthal.

8. On 9 June, 15 reported Rosenthal contact to Station.

9. On 15 June, Station advised FBI.

--- Page 15 ---

14-00000

15 wants Station assistance in doing a disappearing act.

15 FBI contact now in Washington for discussions re
proposal para 3 DIR 14671, Henze's immediate reaction
not using much but would want to check it further.

ROBERT J. BLADERGROEN
Assistant General Counsel

--- Page 16 ---

14-00000

DATE 26 June 1967

Robert Ortman

WH/COG/MO

SECRET

TO: JMWAVE

PRIORITY RYBAT ANCLEVE-15

CITE DIRECTOR 74671

IMMEDIATE HANDLING

1. DEPARTMENT JUSTICE INVESTIGATING ONE LEFTY ROSENTHAL BELIEVED
   TIED IN WITH MIAMI CRIME FIGURES AND INVOLVED IN SEVEN RECENT BOMBINGS
   MIAMI AREA.

2. ROSENTHAL ALLEGEDLY APPROACHED U.S. CITIZEN NORMAN ROTHMAN IN
   DOMREP WHO PUT HIM IN TOUCH AMCLEVE-15 WHOM ROSENTHAL KNOWS TO BE
   AFFILIATED WOFACT. ROSENTHAL CLAIMS AMCLEVE-15 SUPPLIED HIM WITH CAPS
   PRIMERS AND C-4 EXPLOSIVES ALSO CLAIMS OFFERED TO DISCUSS BACKGROUND
   BOMBINGS, WHO INVOLVED, AND WHY, WITH AMCLEVE-15 BUT LATTER INDICATED NO
   INTEREST.

3. ROSENTHAL REPORTEDLY ASKING AMCLEVE-15 TO SUPPLY 240 POUNDS
   C-4 WITH CAPS AND PRIMERS BY 1 JULY 67.

4. LOCAL POLICE INVESTIGATING SEVEN BOMBINGS BUT NOT AWARE
   FOREGOING DETAILS RELATIVE AMCLEVE-15.

5. APPRECIATE PRIORITY COMMENTS INCLUDING ANY POSSIBILITY
   MATERIAL GIVEN ROSENTHAL COULD BE WOFACT ORIGIN.

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

--- Page 17 ---

14-00000

DATE

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

SECRET

CITE DIRECTOR 74671

PREFER NO DISCUSSION WITH LOCAL LNERGO AT THIS TIME.

NO IDENTIFIABLE HQS TRACES ROSENTHAL. NUMEROUS LNERGO REPORTS
CITE ROTHMAN FOR GAMBLING, GUN RUNNING AND OTHER SHADY ACTIVITIES IN
U.S., CUBA AND MEXICO INCLUDING EFFORTS ESTABLISH ANTI-CASTRO BASE
IN YUCATAN.

END OF MESSAGE

William V.. Broe
WH/COG/MO

OGC (Mr. Bladergroen in draft)

Earl Williamson
AC/WH/COG

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

COPY NO.

--- Page 18 ---

14-00000

26 June 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Luis Clements POSADA-Carriles

1. The Department of Justice has been investigating
   one Lefty Rosenthal whom they believe to be tied in with key
   members of organised crime in the Miami area and who also
   they believe has been involved in seven recent bombings in
   the Miami area. According to the information the Department
   has gotten so far. Rosenthal went to a United States citizen
   named Norman Rothman in the Dominican Republic and through
   him directly or indirectly through a person known as Diego,
   Rosenthal was put in touch with Luis Clemente Posada-Carriles,
   Alien Registration Number A-12419708, 263 S. W. 26th Street,
   Miami. Rosenthal understands that Posada-Carriles is attached
   to CIA and claims that Posada-Carriles supplied him with caps,
   primers and C-4 explosives. Rosenthal is reported to have
   offered to talk to Posada-Carriles about the background of the
   bombings and who was involved and why, but Posada-Carriles
   said he had no interest in the background.

2. Rosenthal is reported to be asking Posada-Carriles
   to supply 240 pounds of C-4 explosives with caps and primers
   by Saturday and has told Posada-Carriles that twenty more
   bombings are scheduled. The local police are investigating
   the seven bombings which have taken place and do not know this
   other background material.

3. Justice would very much like to have Rosenthal
   prosecuted and accordingly would like to have the explosives
   delivered to Rosenthal but to have 99% of it faulty and have the
   state prosecute him on the possession of the 1% of valid
   explosives. The Justice Department has a report from the

--- Page 19 ---

14-00000

Bureau's Security Squad reporting to the Bureau's Organised
Crime Division which states that Posada-Carriles is a CIA
Agent in a GS status.

LAWRENCE R. HOUSTON
General Counsel.

--- Page 20 ---

14-00000

Luis Posada Carriles

2 Feb 61 to Mexico, entered US illegally

device from Argentina

18 April 61 request for gambling

27 April 61 went to US via Guantanamo

Dec 64 gun running in/to Venus based Puente Pied

target was said on oriente

1964-65 Dante Domengo

man 63-man 64 Test Benning, Gu - 2nd St

Folle Cty Tia as machinist

May 641.

instructed in

April 65 employed by JMWAVE

Martine housing, information algos - quat

--- Page 21 ---

14-00000

SECRET

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

Chief, London Division

Chief of Station, JMWAVE

SUBJECT: Declining Importance of MINCEX In Cuban Government

During JMWAVE debriefing on 11 April 1967, AURIVER-L provided
the following information on the above subject:

1. As of March 1967, the role of MINCEX in the Cuban
   Government, including the Commercial Office in London, was
   less important than it had been two years earlier. During
   those two years, MINCEX lost a substantial portion of its
   functions and operating elements. Beginning early in 1966,
   Cubana de Aviacion made its own purchases abroad without
   the assistance of the MINCEX Commercial Offices. CUBATABACO,
   formerly an operating element of MINCEX, was abolished late
   in 1966 and its functions were taken over by an independent
   enterprise called Empresa Cubana del Tabaco with headquarters
   in Havana. In April 1967, CUBAEXPORT, an operating element
   of MINCEX, was scheduled to be abolished and replaced by
   Instituto del Libro with headquarters in Havana In January
   and February 1967, the GOC was studying the feasibility of
   transferring CUBAZUCAR, an operating element of MINCEX, to
   the Sugar Ministry.

SOURCE COMMENT: This trend of events appears to indicate
               that in the future MINCEX functions will
               be further reduced and possibly even
               eliminated completely.

DISTRIBUTION:
2 - Chief, EUR Division
2 - CCS London

CROSS REFERENCE TO
201-747424

SECRET

26 Apr 67

UFGA-27448

--- Page 22 ---

14-00000

During 1966 and early 1967 various GOC enterprises
sent their own purchasers to London thus eliminating
the need for the Commercial Office to purchase for them.
For instance, the Basic Chemistry Mission headed by Francisco
CORRAL Pico arrived in London late in 1966 to make chemical purchases.
For Telephones Consent Roberto POSADA Carriles
and suppliers in February 1967, a mission
of Construction arrived in London to purchase
heavy construction equipment. This mission was headed by: Fernando
FOHARES Hernandez.

3. The chain of events which heralded the reduction in
   importance of the Commercial Office in London began with the
   assignment of persons of a much lower level of competence than
   those who preceeded them. Examples of persons recently assigned
   to the Commercial Office in London who had only six or seven
   years of schooling and little or no experience in foreign trade
   or business are Marcos PEREZ Puig, representative of CUSAZUCAR;
   Orlando ROMERO Crespo, representative of MEDICUBA, CUIRT and
   acting representative of CUBATEX and CONCUNIMPORT; and Ruben
   GUAL Yero, representative of AQUIMPORT and FERRIMPORT. The
   qualification of PEREZ apparently was that he was a member of
   the Communist Youth organization, and the qualifications of
   ROMERO and GUAL apparently were that they were Communist Party
   members.

4. Significant JMWAVE Traces:

Marcos PEREZ Puig: AHOT report //AA-4487 67: In October 1966,
                  Subject was a Regional Director of the National
                  Institute of Hydraulic Resources.

Orlando ROMERO Crespo: Traces provide no additional significant
                      information.

Ruben GUAL Yero: AHOT report EE-6285 17 January 1967; according
                to the official Gazette Subject was assigned to
                the following positions: Manager Hoffman Machine
                Company 20 November 1961 to 21 March 1962; Manager
                Hardware Unit H-24 March 1962 to August 1962.

Francisco CORRAL Pico: AOT reports A-4237, 14 October 1966: Subject
                       was Supply Chief of the Consolidated Basic
                       Chemical Enterprise. He went to England and
                       France in November 1965 as a member of a
                       delegation of the Ministry of Foreign Trade
                       and the Ministry of Industry to buy raw
                       materials. PCC Fanatic supporter
                       of the regime.

Roberto POSADA Carriles: AMFAST-13 debriefing report of 20 April 1967-
                         In March 1967 Subject was Chief of the
                         Special Area of the Cuban Telephone Company
                         in charge of classified and sensitive
                         telephones.

Fernando FOHARES Hernandez: No identifiable traces.

Rafael CASTILLO: CSU-16393, 13 Dec 1953: Regime supporter
                 -employed at the Havana telephone plant.

SECRET

--- Page 23 ---

14-00000

Marcos PEREZ Puig: Regional Director of the
National Institute of Hydraulic Resources.
Appears to be Subjects only apparent
qualification for this job.

Orlando ROMERO Crespo: Appears to be qualified for
job because he is a Communist Party Member. This is only apparent qualification.

Ruben GUAL Yero: Seems to be only qualification for
job is that he is a Communist Party Member.

Francisco CORRAL Pico: Subject went to England and
France in 1965 as a member of a delegation of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and the Ministry of Industry to buy raw materials, PCC member
and supporter of the regime.

Roberto POSADA Carriles:

--- Page 24 ---

14-00000

In February 1967, a mission from the Ministry of Construction
arrived in London to purchase heavy construction equipment.

Rafael CASTILLO: Regime supporter employed at the Havana telephone plant.

--- Page 25 ---

14-00000

Chief, WH

Chief of Station, JMWAVE

SUBJECT: Debriefing of Lazaro Armando HERNANDEZ Perez

Action Required: YOCARD Input

1. Attached herewith is a debriefing report received from
   AMFAST/13 on 20, April 1967 containing information on the following:
   a. Roberto POSADA Carriles: a DSE agent and Cuban
      Telephone Company employee; supervisor for "Area Norte"
      which is responsible for Havana City and employed at "Area
      Especial".
   b. Pedro ADIEU: a DGE agent and Cuban Telephone
      Company employee; chief of installations and maintenance
      of "Area Norte", which is responsible for Havana City.
   c. Jesus BELTRAN: a DSE and PCC member employed as
      an installer and repairman at "Area Especial" of the
      Cuban Telephone Company in Vedado, Havana.
   d. Information on "Area Especial" department of the
      Cuban Telephone Company in Vedado, Havana.

2. The source of the report, Lazaro Armando HERNANDEZ
   Perez, A 17 405 510, arrived in the United States from Cuba
   via the airlift on 14 April 1967. Source was employed as an
   installer and repairman of telephone equipment for the Cuban
   Telephone Company in Havana City from January 1959 to
   6 February 1967.

3. JMWAVE trace results are as follows:
   a. Lazaro Armando HERNANDEZ Perez: no traces
   b. Roberto POSADA Carriles: Cuban Telephone Company
      employee since 1952. He is the brother of AMCLEVE/15
      and the Subject of a JMWAVE PERS file.

Attachments
1. Debriefing Report
2. Input Forms

SECRET

--- Page 26 ---

14-00000

SECRET

c. Pedro ADIEU: no traces.

d. Jesus BELTRAN: no traces.

The information concerning the "Area Especial" department
of the Cuban Telephone Company was passed to the Reports Branch of
JMWAVE for possible dissemination.

Eight machine input forms are attached herewith.

--- Page 27 ---

14-00000

SECRET

HERNANDEZ Perez, Lazaro Armando

Artemisa, Cuba

Refugee

Arrived US from Cuba via the airlift on 14 April 1967

POSADA Carriles, Roberto

Cuba

DSS

Supervisor for "Area Norte" which is responsible for Havana
City and is employed at "Area Especial" located at 19th St. corner of C St., Vedado, Havana

ADIEU, Pedro

DSS agent, chief of installations and maintenance of Area Norte
is responsible for Havana City. PCC member.

BELTRAN, Jesus

PCC member; employed as an installer and
repairman at "Area Especial" of the Cuban Telephone Company in Vedado, Havana.

--- Page 28 ---

14-00000

Debriefed contacted Hernandez, instructed by C/O to send
out if HERNANDEZ could provide information on Roberto POSADA
Carriles.

HERNANDEZ arrived in US on 14 April 1967, via US sponsored
airlift.

HERNANDEZ was claimed by his wife's aunt, Amparo MARTINEZ
Covia, who arrived in the US in circa 1951 and resides at 1559-
West, 3rd. Avenue, Hialeah, Fla.

HERNANDEZ is married to Esther Consuelo NIGUEL Martinez
(DOB: 14 September 1939, Havana, Havana Province). They are
temporarily residing at 1659-West, 3rd. Avenue, Hialeah, phone
number 885-2327. HERNANDEZ will depart (date not set yet) for:
c/o (sister) Elvira HERNANDEZ Perez, 364 Williamson street, Elizabeth, New Jersey.

Since 1958 up to April 1967, HERNANDEZ resided at Santa
Trene #26, Santos Suarez, Havana.

On 22 October 1957, HERNANDEZ started to work for the Cuban
Telephone Company in Havana employed as laborer. During August
1958, after undergoing a training sponsored by the enterprise,
HERNANDEZ was promoted as assistant-installer-repairman of tele-
phone equipment within the telephone company. In early 1963, he
was promoted as "operador" (installer and repairman of telephone
equipment) position which he held up to 6 February 1967. HERNANDEZ
claims that even though he had presented his application to
leave the country since 16 May 1965, he did not inform the tele-
phone company of his plans to leave until 4 February 1967. On
6 February 1967, HERNANDEZ resigned from the telephone company.

As a telephone company worker, HERNANDEZ operated from
"area norte" (north area-which includes all Havana city) with
offices at 19th street corner of B street, Vedado. HERNANDEZ
claims that as Installer and repair-man he never was involved
in "bugging" or installment of any kind of special equipment;
because this task was assigned to another group that operates
from "Area especial" (special area) which is located at 19th
street corner of C street, Vedado. Since 1953 up to 1955,
HERNANDEZ was assigned to work at Plaza Civica (now Plaza de la
Revolucion) where he repaired and installed telephones, for: MININD,
INA, Ministry of Communication, Ministry of Transportation,
INCOS and for the Public Library. In early 1955, before the
Ministry of the Armed Forces and the MININT, were moved to the
Plaza Civica, HERNANDEZ was told that if he wanted to keep his
job, at Plaza Civica, he had to become fully integrated with the
GOC when HERNANDEZ refused he was transferred and assigned to
service private residences.

Since 1955 up to January 195