14-00000

104-10100-10199, 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

☐ INDEX
✓ NO INDEX
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
12 OCTOBER 1963 FILE IN CS FILE NO. 291-736751

MEXICO CITY
TO:
FROM: DIRECTOR
C/FE 6

INFO: D/CI, C/WH 5, D/OS 2, RF, WR

IMMEDIATE
INFO:
ROUTING:
1
2
4
5
6

DEFERRED
ROUTINE
CITE DIR 75338

KAPOK LCHARVEST
REF MEXI 6483 (IN 38148)

1. LIANG SZU CH’ENG 2733 1835 2052, BW1-736761 3012 1901, TUX. LANGUAGE ENGLISH. MEMBER CCP. BACKGROUND:

BA TSINGHUA UNIV
BA, MA UNIV
MA HARVARD
28-31 PROF AT NATIONAL HORTRE
32-33 PROF NATIONAL PEKING UNIV; PROF NATIONAL TSINGHUA.
RESEARCH
41-43 MEMBER FELLOW, ACADEMIA SINICA
PROF NATIONAL TSINGHUA UNIV, PEKING
47 HONORARY PROF YALE; VISITING PROF YALE

☐ MEMBER OF TSINGHUA UNIV
53-61 HEAD OF DEPT OF CIVIL ENGINEERING AND ARCHIT
TSINGHUA; VICE PRESIDENT ARCHITECTURE S.CI.

COORDINATING OFFICERS GROUP 1

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
Copy No. 15912

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

☐ INDEX
☐ NO INDEX
12 October 1963
FILE IN CS FILE NO.

FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF:
INFO.

IMMEDIATE
INFO
CITE DIR 75338

DEFERRED
ROUTINE

HE SELF CRITICISM FOLLOWING EXTRACTS FROM JULY 13 1957 ENTITLED "WHY I LOVE OUR PARTY”.

"THE BRILLIANT INDUSTRIAL, AGRICULTURAL, SCIENTIFIC, AND CULTURAL ACHIEVEMENTS OF OUR NATION," TOLD OF HIS PAST ANXIETY AND PERPLEXITY IN HIS OWN WORK. HE
SAID THAT AT THE “DEPT HE HAD USED OUT-DATED ARCHITECTURAL THEORIES TO TEACH THE
YOUNG INSTRUCTORS AND STUDENTS OF THE TSINGHUA UNIVERSITY BECAUSE HE WAS BOTHERED

COORDINATING OFFICERS GROUP:

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
Copy No.

--- Page 3 ---

14-0001

☐ INDEX
☐ NO INDEX
FILE IN CS FILE NO.

FROM DIRECTOR

INFO
CITE DIR

IMMEDIATE
FOR ARBITRATION. HE SAID "I WAS DOWN
WAS SURE I WAS
DID NOT FIT INTO
THAT
PARTY AS MUCH
I. CAL
HE SAID: "I WAS A PRODIGAL
PARTY
NOT

DEFERRED
ROUTINE
TARGET
I HAVE NO QUARREL WITH THE PARTY.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
Copy No.

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000
12 OCTOBER 1963

☐ INDEX
☐ NO INDEX
FILE IN CS FILE NO.

FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF:
INFO

IMMEDIATE

DEFERRED
ROUTINE
CITE DIR 75338

3. STIPULATE 1 VISION THAT LIANG/WI
HE WOULD EXPECT IF QUFI
WOULD MAKE GOOD IN PLACE A
FAKER LIARS AT UNTY YATR
IN PLACE HIT THE
STIPULATE 1. TO
BRIDGE TO LIANG.
OFFICER. HAS BEEN USED PRINCIPALLY IN PRIOR HOUR IN PART. AN
FURTHER BACKGROUND.

5. STIPULATE 1 WILL BE UNDER TOL
HEAVY PERSONAL
COVER AND WILL REMAIN ONLY TWO DAYS DUE
WILL BE SO UNDER PARTY FRIENDSHIP TO
ATTEMPT ESTABLISH CONTACT LIANG
IF SO STATION SHOULD BE PREPARED
UNTIL FURTHER STEPS CAN BE TAKEN.

6. STIPULATE 1 ARRIVING MUNICH 12 OCTOBER 2145 HOURS VIA EASTERN
AIR LINES FLIGHT 305. HAVE BRIEFED HIM WILL BE MET BY SAMBERED. STIPULATE 1

COORDINATING OFFICERS

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
Copy No.

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
12 OCTOBER 1963.
CS FILE NO

IMMEDIATE

DEFERRED
ROUTINE

WILL WEAR RED WHITE BLUE TIE. IF CONTACT MISSED STIPULATE 1 TO PROCEED
CITY AND CONTACT MARINE GUARD AT EMBASSY
KING FOR
AUTHORIZE.

STATION ADVANCE OPERATIONAL FUNDS AND PER DIEM AS NECESSARY TO STIPULATE 1
SINCE NO OPPORTUNITY DO SO HERE. CHARGE LCHARVEST COA.

END OF MESSAGE

FI Staff Lloyd George (by phone)
DC/PED/08 Steve Kuhn (by phone)
CI Staff M. Mertz (by phone)
DCFE(C)
C/WH/3 J. Whitten (by phone)
William C
