400000
104-10075-10099
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ROM:
ACTION:
RECTOR
WAVE
DDP, ADOP Sep 6,
C/OPS / 2, F1,1/
8, AD/CL
SECRET
2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP,
[1/INT 6,
?, EAS 12, 0D/1,
TECSDB-3/658,079
NOV 27 2172 63 IN 68504
SRET 262309Z
DIR INFO LANT PACY BARR CITE WAVE 8188
INTEL TYPIC
SUPDATA, AMKHAN-2 RECEIVED 251245 LOCAL. REF BARR 1391 (IN
PREVIOUS MENTION OF TANKS WITH TWIN CANNON "NOT PREVIOUSLY SEEN" UFG-3954
A-2 FROM EDUARDO FEREZ REPEAT PEREZ DUANEY (PROTECT). RID NO INDEX.
FILED 262309Z. REPORT CLASS:
REPORT CLASS: SECRET CONTROLLED DISSEM NO FOREIGN DISSEM
COUNTRY: CUBA
SUBJ: SIGHTING OF TANKS WITH TWIN CANNONS IN THE AREA OF HABANA.
DOI: 23 NOV 63. FADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (26 NOV 63) LFG 4138
SOURCE: AN EDUCATED CUBAN OF WESTERN EUROPEAN EXTRACTION WHO LIVES
IN HABANA SOURCE HAS REPORTED MILITARY INFORMATION ACQUIRED BY
PERSONEL OBSERVATION. SOURCE'S RELIABILITY HAS NOT YET BEEN
ESTABLISHED. THIS INFORMATION IS FROM A MANAGER OF AN AGRICULTURAL
ENTERPRISE IN HABANA.
10957
DATE DISTRIBUTED
27 Nov 1963
PRIORITY
Background Use Only:

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000
SECRET
CENTRAL
COUNTRY: CUBA
W BASSER/CONTROLLED
REPORT NO. TBCS DB-3/658,079
SUBJECT: TANKS WITH TWIN CANNON IN THE AREA OF HABANA
DATE DISTR. 27 NOVEMBER 1963
PRECEDENCE: ROUTINE
DOI: 23 NOVEMBER 1963
ORIG: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (26 November 1963)
REFERENCES:
FIELD REPORT NO.
IN 68504

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.
AN EDUCATED CUBAN OF WESTERN EUROPEAN EXTRACTION WHO LIVES IN HAVANA, SOURCE HAS
REPORTED MILITARY INFORMATION ACQUIRED BY PERSONAL OBSERVATION. SOURCE'S
RELIABILITY HAS NOT YET BEEN ESTABLISHED. THIS INFORMATION IS FROM A MANAGER OF
AN AGRICULTURAL ENTERPRISE IN HABANA.

ON 23 NOVEMBER 1963, ABOUT 20 TANKS WERE OBSERVED, APPARENTLY
PARTICIPATING IN MANEUVERS, IN AN AREA AT THE INTERSECTION OF VIA
MONUMENTAL AND CARRETERA CENTRAL. MANY OF THE TANKS HAD TWIN CANNON
MOUNTED AND WERE A TYPE PREVIOUSLY NOT OBSERVED BY THE EYEWITNESS.
(FIELD COMMENT: A CUBAN WHO HAS PROFESSIONAL CONTACT WITH RELATIVES
OF OFFICIALS IN CUBAN GOVERNMENT CIRCLES AND A VARIETY OF CONTACTS
IN WESTERN CUBA, REPORTED THAT ON 23 OCTOBER THE GRENBURG BROUGHT
A NUMBER OF ARMORED VEHICLES WHICH WERE CALLED LANZA LLAMAS
(FLAME THROWERS) AND WERE A TYPE NOT PREVIOUSLY OBSERVED IN CUBA.
THESE TANKS CARRIED TWO CANNON WHICH APPEARED SIMILAR TO THE 152 MM

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION – DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM CONTROLLED DISSEN
STATE INA DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY || AIR || JGS SECORP. NSA
ICS TREASURY
TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
K

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000.
SECRET
68504
TPCS DB-3/658,079
ARTILLERY PIECE.)

2. AS OF THAT SAME DATE THERE WAS A LARGE MILITARY CAMP TO
THE WEST OF VIA MONUMENTAL JUST BEFORE REACHING THE CARRETERA
CENTRAL (FIELD COMMENT: THIS IS PROBABLY THE LOMA DE TIERRA
MILITARY AREA WHICH HAS RECENTLY SEEN A LARGE INFLUX OF VEHICLES
AND MATERIEL).

3. FIELD DISSEM CINCLANT, CTHICSO, CORNAVKEYWEST.
