```markdown
14-00000

104-10215-10215 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Mrs. Argentina C. Crozier A-11 937 507

Admitted to the US as an immigrant: March 12, 1960

Typer O-1 Ports SNA (San Ontanio, Tex.)
Date of Birth: March 15, 1915

Received FOREIGN ADDRESS AND OCCUPATION INDEX CARD (Budget Bureau, No. 43-R390) and Dept of Justice ID card Form No. 1-151 - thru my home address at Longmont Colorado about March 12 April 1960.

Index Card filled and mailed on 19 April 1960.

201-168881

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

232271 Universal
RECIBO POR DINERO (Receipt for Money)
No 050

RECIBI de Cash (Received from Cash)

31 de January de 19

la suma de Seven hundred fifty and no/100 colones (the sum of Seven hundred fifty and no/100 colones)

por Services rendered, month of January (for Services rendered, month of January)

($750.00)

Crozier

27-14
27-14
27-14
27-14
27-14
27-14

201-168881

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

258499 Universal
RECIBO POR DINERO (Receipt for Money)
No 009

30 de April de 195...

RECIBI de Cash (Received from Cash)

la suma de Eight hundred colones 00/100 (the sum of Eight hundred colones 00/100)

por Services rendered, 16-30 April (for Services rendered, 16-30 April)

($800.00)

Ross L. Crozier

201-168881

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000

BIOGRAPHICAL: Consuelo Felicia CORDERO Calderon

| From     | To        | Place           | Employment        | Employer        | Address                |
| :------- | :-------- | :-------------- | :---------------- | :-------------- | :--------------------- |
| 1 Jan 57 | 20 May 57 | San Jose, C.R.  | Manicurist        | Salon BORDALLO  | 62 entre Av 3 - 5      |
| 20 May   | 1 July 57 | Havana, Cuba    | Unemployed        |                 |                        |
| 2 July   | 13 Apr 58 | San Jose, C.R.  | Salon BORDALLO  | Juan BORDALLO   | 62 entre Av 3 - 5      |
| 14 Apr 58| July 58   | 160 Main St. Quincy 69, Mass. | Unemployed        |                 |                        |
| July 58  | 27 Dec 58 | Mexico City     | Salon Moderno     | Esperanza HERRERA | Obregon No 174 Ay Alvaro |
| 27 Dec 58| Mar 59    | 180 Main St. Quincy 69, Mass. | Unemployed        |                 |                        |
| Mar 59   | 17 Mar 60 | 550 Riverside Dr. New York 27, N.Y. | Student at Wilfred Academy | | 1657 Broadway 51st |
|          |           |                 | also employed at Glamour Cut | | 353 E. 204 St., Bronx, N.Y. |
|          |           |                 | also employed at Ciro's Coiffure | | Lexington Av 91st and 92nd |
|          |           |                 | also employed at Jacques Beauty Salon, Inc. | | 160 West 55th Street, N.Y. |
| 21 Mar 60 | to date   | 226 Burgess Ave Alexandria, Va. | Temporarily unemployed | | |

DATES WERE TAKEN FROM PAST BORT TRAVEL

201-168881

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000

232271 Universal
RECIBO POR DINERO (Receipt for Money)
No 069

30 de June de 1949

RECIBI de Cash (Received from Cash)

la suma de four hundred and no/100 colones (the sum of four hundred and no/100 colones)

por services rendered, month of June (for services rendered, month of June)

($400.00)

Crozier

27-19-11
27-19-13
27-19-16
27-19-18
27-19-19
27-19-20
27-19-18

FILE IN 201-168881

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000

ROSS L. CROZIER
Representative
PUBLIC SCHOOLS INSTITUTE
GENERAL POLLING SERVICE
RIVESTE 1-3074
532 FIDELITY UNION LIFE BLDG.
1511 BATAN STREET
DALLAS, TEXAS

See Subject's Cover in Operations folder.

201-168881

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000

SECRET
Security Information

MEMORANDUM TO: PLANS
FROM:
SUBJECT: Project HUMANOID

Project HUMANOID is the most important single project of the San Jose Station, and the basis for all existing and contemplated 050 activities in the area. It is requested that the restrictions imposed upon project HUMANOID, as contained in TRS-W-635, copy attached, be lifted at this time, and the Chief of Station be authorized to direct the activities of HUMANOID into the following channels.

(a) Direct and close supervision of HUMANOID-3, the Station's penetration of the Vanguardia Popular, Costa Rican Communist Party, in order to utilize fully the agent's potentialities. HUMANOID-3 is intelligent, has a wide knowledge of Communist activities, plans and personalities and is desirous of cooperating to the extent of his ability. After a thorough de-briefing of HUMANOID-3 by HUMANOID, in order to acquaint him, HUMANOID-3 with the Station's specific interests and requirements, plus the subsequent close supervision which will be exercised by HUMANOID, and the continuing close supervision of HUMANOID-3 by HUMANOID, it is felt that the station will then be in a position to provide intensive and adequate coverage of the objectives assigned to it in the San Jose SCI.

(b) Direct and close supervision of HUMANOID-4, the Station's penetration of the Women's Fronts affiliated with the Vanguardia Popular. It is felt that the former cut-out HUCKLEBONE, who handled HUMANOID-4 until 1 June 1949, was somewhat inept in his operational dealings, which possibly may account for what seems to be a lack of productivity in the HUMANOID-4 project. HUMANOID-4 has an intimate relationship with active CP members in Costa Rica, both on a low and high level, and possesses a definite potential for both independent reporting, and for spotting a likely individual to be used as a parallel to the HUMANOID-3 project. HUMANOID, who will now handle HUMANOID-4, is capable of directing this agent's efforts into the proper channels, and capitalizing fully on the talents possessed by the individual. It is felt that this is another instance whereby HUMANOID, by working closely and directly with the individual can make a substantial contribution to the efforts of the San Jose Station.

(c) Direct and close supervision of HUMANOID-1 and HUMANOID-2, the mail intercept operations presently covering the General Post Office in San Jose. The information that HUMANOID-1 has access to is important and is of documentary reliability. His position is important to the operational structure of the station. HUMANOID-2 is

SECRET
201-168881

--- Page 8 ---

14-00000

SECRET
Security Information

a very satisfactory type of agent. He displays a certain amount of initiative in voluntarily performing tasks not specifically requested by the Chief of Station through the cut-out HUMANOID. HUMANOID-2 has demonstrated the qualities of willingness, discretion, and cooperation.

(d) As to the principal agent of Project HUMANOID, the following observations are submitted, which will indicate unmistakeably the value of this project, and its contribution to the successful activities of the San Jose Station.

Evaluation of services - As the principal agent and station cut-out, HUMANOID is charged with the direction and guidance of HUMANOID-1; HUMANOID-2; HUMANOID-3; HUMANOID-4. His handling of these agents is carried out in a professional and efficient manner, and his personal comments and corrections on their reports, based on his long acquaintance with local personalities and conditions, are of considerable value. His attitude remains enthusiastic and willing.

Evaluation of information - The information produced by the agents being handled by HUMANOID is of great value to the station. In addition to his own production, this agent's operations are well suited to checking on information received from other sources.

COMMENTS - Despite the fact that HUMANOID has been working under certain operational restrictions for a number of months, his value to the station continues to be of major importance. In addition to the tangible and measurable information produced by and through him, HUMANOID has proved to be the single most valuable source of background and orientation data for the Chief of Station. His knowledge of the history of Costa Rican communist activities and personalities, and his grasp of the various revolutionary movements and figures has been freely shared with the Chief of Station. These "briefing meetings" represent an intangible contribution to the over-all performance of the Station. HUMANOID is eager to expand his operations and upon the removal of present operational restrictions it is believed that he can be given further responsibilities, particularly in the recruiting of additional sub-agents. The station is presently interested in accomplishing a parallel penetration of the Communist Party of Costa Rica, in expanding routine investigative coverage and in developing additional sources on political movements. It is believed that HUMANOID can insure the success of these new ventures.

SECRET

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000

COSTA RICA
1. HUMANOD
A. Identifying data:
a) Nationality: U.S. citizen, born 22 June 1922
b) Education: High school and attending college in Costa Rica
c) Occupations: Sergeant in U.S. Air Force during World War II, and an agent of the Panama Station until early 1949
d) Marital status: Married
e) Time devoted to our work: Approximately 40%
f) How contacted: By Chief of Station
B. Humanoid is a cutout for projects Hugger, Humankind 1 and 3, and Humanist-2. See attachments.
2. Productions
(a) Description of info produced: Communist penetration of labor groups and student groups.
(b) Statistics on reports received and disseminated:
July thru December 3 received
3 disseminated
(c) Headquarters evaluation of info received: B
3. Cost of Project: $690.05 per month, to show following payments
July $34.42 October $58.39
August $36.42 November $51.63
September $34.42 December $51.63
4. Administration by headquarters:
(a) Operational clearance granted.
(b) Allotment sheet up to date.
5. Owners Evaluation:
Humanoid is considered an excellent agent in all respects, his value is more than commensurate with his salary.

SECRET
201-168881

--- Page 10 ---

14-00000

SECRET
PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE
PART II - OPERATIONAL INFORMATION

INSTRUCTIONS TO CASE OFFICER:

1. If feasible, subject should fill in Part I of PRQ in his own hand.
2. Part II of PRQ is classified, must be filled in by the Case Officer and is not to be shown to subject.
3. Headquarters will not be able to provide an Operational Clearance unless it receives answers to all questions on page 1 of Part I (Items 1 to 12), and to all questions of Part II (Items 36 to 58).
4. In emergency these answers, keyed to Items 1 to 12 by number, and with summary of Part II, may be cabled to Headquarters, followed promptly by pouch with complete data.
5. Fully completed PRQ must be sent to Headquarters as soon as possible, two copies of Part I (including copy in subject's handwriting, if possible) and one copy of Part II.
6. Data acquired later must be sent to Headquarters in PRQ format on a continuing basis.
7. All pages of both parts will bear the PRQ number, composed of (a) Station symbol (b) PRQ (c) number assigned consecutively by the field station; e.g. PGA/PRQ/10.

36. Cryptonym Arthur G. VAIVADA
37. How, when and where was subject first contacted or developed?
Subject was first recruited in Panama as HYDROPATHIC in November 1948 and transferred to Costa Rica in approved HUMANOID project. Subsequently was transferred to BIRADIAL project, PESUCCESS and in 1954 to AMPHODARCH project (Cuba) with which he is currently identified.
38. Could subject be turned over quickly and in a secure manner to someone else for handling? Yes
To whom? Record over the past nine years shows that subject has easily been turned over to different projects and case officers.
39. Best estimate of subject's motivation
Subject is motivated by his interest in intelligence work, desire to advance in the organization as a career, its remuneration and as loyal U. S. citizen.

201-168881

--- Page 11 ---

14-00000

SECRET

40. With what agencies and files has subject's name been checked? When? Result? What else has been done to verify biographical information furnished by subject?
Checked upon recruitment in Panama in 1949 and subsequently upon transfer to other projects.

41. What control exists over subject at present? How can it be increased?
Subject is controlled through dependence on salary, loyalty because of American heritage, past Army and Agency service, and a desire for a career in intelligence work.

42. For what service does he think he is working? What does he think becomes of his information?
Subject is cognizant of the identity of this organization.

43. Explain fully subject's past or present connection with any intelligence service.
Subject previously in U. S. Army and Air Force Intelligence.

44. What type of information has subject furnished? What type is he best qualified by education and experience to furnish? Give evaluation of information received.
Subject has furnished information received from sub-agents on Communist and revolutionary activities throughout the Central American-Caribbean area. Is now P/A in Cuban project with those primary objectives. Work to date has been outstanding. Has been particularly valuable in development and recruitment of new agents.

SECRET

--- Page 12 ---

14-00000

SECRET

45. If subject's duties are to be other than intelligence gathering, explain.
Only those functions (Administrative-Operational) normally exercised by P/A.

46. Has he been given special training as an agent? Explain.
U. S. Army Intelligence Training and Agency covert training from 5 October through 25 November 1953. Additional covert training at Headquarters planned for April-May 1957.

47. How and from whom does he obtain information?
From indigenous student-youth elements, with whom he maintains contact and who in turn have entree to Cuban Communist and revolutionary circles.

48. Is it proposed to pay subject a regular salary? If so, amount per week, month, etc. Explain any other methods of payment, such as exchange, commodities.
Subject is to receive $6,390 annually, plus allowances, with provisions for normal step increases, and promotion when justified.

49. Have any promises or commitments whatsoever (not covered elsewhere in this form) been made to subject? Explain.
No.

50. Are subject's language abilities and other characteristics such that he could pass as a native of a country or region other than his own? Explain.
Has native fluency in language and would at least pass as long-time resident and possibly even national of certain Central American-Caribbean countries, although has obviously foreign physical characteristics.

SECRET

--- Page 13 ---

14-00000

SECRET

51. What is subject's social standing? Aristocracy, upper middle class, lower middle class, peasantry, etc.?
Upper Middle Class

52. What are subject's personal habits? Liquor, drugs, gambling, mistresses or lovers?
Believed to be normal in all respects.

53. Evaluation of subject's character, reliability, security.
All noted excellent.

54. With what other foreign power would subject be most likely to collaborate because of his ideology, obligation, etc.? Explain.
None

55. What special abilities, talents, or qualifications are possessed by subject which would conceivably be of value for other operations in the future?
Subject can send and receive Morse Code.

56. Attach samples of subject's signature and handwriting in all languages known to him, also a recent, dated photograph, and fingerprints.
Previously submitted.

SECRET

--- Page 14 ---

14-00000

SECRET

57. How was information in Part I obtained?
From Subject personally.

58. Other miscellaneous operational data and comments.
Outstanding record led first to recommendation that subject be converted to staff status; following which it was determined that a career agent designation would be more appropriate in his case.

SECRET

Case officer

--- Page 15 ---

14-00000

SECRET
BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH ROSS L. CROZIER

Ross L. CROZIER was born on 20 June 1922 in De Kalb, Illinois and is the eldest of five children of a respectable middle-class family. His parents and his two brothers and two sisters now reside in Sterling, Illinois. Crozier received his primary and high school education in De Kalb and entered the U.S. Army in 1940, later transferring to the Army Air Corps. He served as an operations and intelligence specialist, first in the China-India-Burma Theatre and later in Panama. Crozier was discharged from the service in August 1945, leaving with the grade of Technical Sergeant. After his discharge, Crozier worked about three months as a laboratory technician in the Sterling (Illinois) Silica-Cel Corporation and then returned to the Canal Zone to marry Argentina CORDERO C., a Costa Rican girl in December 1945. He then worked about four months as a stevedore and labor foreman in the Canal Zone. In April 1946 he re-enlisted in the Air Force in the Canal Zone, from which he was discharged three years later in 1949 at his previous grade of Technical Sergeant.

Crozier became an Agency contract agent on 1 June 1949. He was originally scheduled to be used in Panama but was assigned to the HUMANOID Project in Costa Rica instead. While there he successfully handled a high level penetration of the Costa Rican Communist Party. In 1953 he was sent to Headquarters for training, and in 1954 he was assigned to PESUCCESS for a brief period. In July 1954 he signed a new contract in Washington whereby he became the new principal

SECRET
201-168881

--- Page 16 ---

14-00000

SECRET

agent of Project AMPHODARCH. He is under student cover and is actually working for his BA degree at the University of Habana, for which he has approximately 1 more year of academic work to complete.

Crozier has a healthy appearance and appears to be about 32 years of age. He is athletically inclined and has been, and is at present, interested in organizing and participating in intra-mural athletics. He is happily married and the father of two children. He possesses a great deal of integrity, honesty, intelligence, and resourcefulness. His chief hobby, aside from sports, is photography. He has made quite a study of picture-taking and has developed a portrait photo technique which he has found useful in his work and as an aid to obtaining extra spending money while going to school. The Chief of Habana Mission and WHD have a strong feeling that this man will perform his duties in a superior manner and will make AMPHODARCH a valuable and worthwhile project.

SECRET

--- Page 17 ---

14-00000

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT
DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION
RI FILE NO.
DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.
DATE
SOURCE CRYPTONYM
DATE OF INFO.
EVALUATION
ANALYST
DATE PROCESSED
DISSEMINATED IN -
The
122 July 58
DOCUMENT DISPOSITION
TRANSFERRED TO
CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE
RI FILE NO.
FORM NO. 867
MAY 56

PERTINENT INFORMATION
DATE
THERE IS A RESTRICTED CI/CA FOLDER ON THE SUB:
CF THIS 201 HELD UNDER CF
25507
FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.
REPLACES FORM 867.
AND FORM 137
age 54
ARE OBSOLETE.
201-168881

SECRET

--- Page 18 ---

14-00000

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY
SECRET

PERSONALITY (201) FILE REQUEST

INSTRUCTIONS: Form must be typed or printed in block letters.

SECTION I: List 201 number, name and identifying date in the spaces provided. All known aliases and variants (including maiden name, if applicable) must be listed. If the identifying data varies with the alias used, a separate form must be used. Write UNKNOWN for items you are unable to complete.

SECTION II: List cryptonym or pseudonym, if assigned. If true name is sensitive, obtain 201 number from 201 Control Desk and complete Section I and Section III. On a separate form, enter the 201 number and complete Section II and Section III. Submit each form separately.

SECTION III: To be completed in all cases.

201 NO. 168881
NAME CROZIER, Ross L.
(Last) (First) (Middle)
NAME VARIANT
(Last) (First) (Middle)
BIRTH DATE 20 June 1922
COUNTRY OF BIRTH USA
OCCUPATION/POSITION
CRYPTONYM
ACTION
AMEND
OPEN
CLOSE
TELEPHONE
ROOM/142 8514
TYPE RECORD COPY
SEX M
(Title)
(Title)
PHOTO
CITY OR TOWN OF BIRTH De Kalb
OTHER IDENTIFICATION
OCC/POS. CODE
SECTION II
PSEUDONYM
SECTION III
ACTION
2ND COUNTRY INTEREST
3RD COUNTRY INTEREST
COUNTRY OF RESIDENCE USA
COMMENTS:
PERMANENT CHARGE YES
RESTRICTED FILE NO

SIGNATURE
SECRET
CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

--- Page 19 ---

14-00000

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY
SECRET

PERSONALITY (201) FILE REQUEST

INSTRUCTIONS: Form must be typed or printed in black letters.

SECTION I: List 201 number, name and identifying data in the spaces provided. All known aliases and variants (including maiden name, if applicable) must be listed. If the identifying data varies with the alias used, a separate form must be used. Write UNKNOWN for items you are unable to complete.

SECTION II: List cryptonym or pseudonym, if assigned. If true name is sensitive, obtain 201 number from 201 Control Desk and complete Section I and Section III. On a separate form, enter the 201 number and complete Section II and Section III. Submit each form separately.

SECTION III: To be completed in all cases.

201 NO.
NAME
(Last)
NAME VARIANT
(Last)
BIRTH DATE
COUNTRY OF BIRTH
OCCUPATION/POSITION
CRYPTONYM
ACTION DESK
COMMENTS:
PERMANENT CHARGE
RESTRICTED FILE
SIGNATURE

SECRET
CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

--- Page 20 ---

14-00000

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY
SECRET

PERSONALITY (201) FILE REQUEST

INSTRUCTIONS: Form must be typed or printed in black letters.

SECTION I: List 201 number, name and identifying data in the spaces provided. All known aliases and variants (including maiden name, if applicable) must be listed. If the identifying data varies with the alias used, a separate form must be used. Write UNKNOWN for items you are unable to complete.

SECTION II: List cryptonym or pseudonym, if assigned. If true name is sensitive, obtain 201 number from 201 Control Desk and complete Section I and Section III. On a separate form, enter the 201 number and complete Section II and Section III. Submit each form separately.

SECTION III: To be completed in all cases.

201 NO. 168881
NAME CROZIER, Ross L.
(Last) (First) (Middle)
NAME VARIANT
(Last) (First) (Middle)
BIRTH DATE 20 June 1922
COUNTRY OF BIRTH USA
OCCUPATION/POSITION
CRYPTONYM Arthur G. VAIVADA
ACTION DESK wh/111/Cuba
COMMENTS: W11/30
PERMANENT CHARGE
RESTRICTED FILE
SIGNATURE

SECRET
CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

--- Page 21 ---

CROZIER, Ross L.
FORM 1505B
9-88
201-168881
SECRET
Vol. I of V
OFFICIAL CS FILE
(Undated Dec. 51)
SECRET

--- Page 22 ---

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET

Review of 201 File on U.S. Citizen

In accordance with the DDO's notice of 9 December 1974, I have reviewed the 201 file on CROZIER (surname) (201 number indicated below), and have determined that it can most accurately be categorized as indicated below:

Should be closed. (If this category applies, affix Records Officer stamp.)

Unwitting collaborator. OI Code A7.
Explanation:

Witting collaborator. OI Code A1.

Potential witting collaborator; date opened: OI Code A2.

Former witting collaborator (relationship terminated). OI Code A3.

Potential witting collaborator never contacted. OI Code A4.

Counterintelligence case (i.e., involving a foreign intelligence or security service). OI Code A5.

All others. OI Code A6.

Signed
(name)
This assignment of category has been entered into STAR.

Signed
(initials)
This document is a permanent part of this file. 201-168881

CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET

--- Page 23 ---

14-00000

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY
SECRET

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER
650063
DISSEM BY: 13
DATE-TIME GROUP
2902014Z JANUARY 75

TO: LIMA, QUITO, GUAYAQUIL, SANTIAGO, BUENOS AIRES, MEXICO CITY
INFO PANTECH, DIRTECH, BANGTECH, TOKYTECH.
TAPPER/CO STARROYO TECHS

REF: DIRECTOR 618825 (BEING RELAYED MEXICO CITY)

1. IN REFINEMENT OF REF REQUIREMENT-QUERY-WHETHER ADDRESSEES HAVE AN ASSET WHO IS ETHNIC CHINESE WITH LATIN AMERICA ORDINARY PASSPORT WHO COULD APPLY FOR A PRC TOURIST VISA. IF YES, PLEASE HAVE ASSET CONTACT PRC EMBASSY AND ASK IF THEY WOULD ISSUE TOURIST VISA AND HOW LONG IT WOULD TAKE BEFORE ASSET COULD OBTAIN VISA.

2. WE ARE TRYING TO DETERMINE WHETHER PRC EMBASSY WILL ISSUE VISA FOR TOURIST PURPOSES TO SINGLETON TRAVELERS OF ETHNIC CHINESE ORIGIN WHO ARE NATIVE OR NATURALIZED LA CITIZENS WHO HAVE NO RELATIVES IN CHINA.

3. IF PER ABOVE AN APPROPRIATE ASSET CAN BE IDENTIFIED, WE WOULD CONSIDER REQUESTING STATION CONCERNED TO LAUNCH HIM ON A SIMPLE OPS SUPPORT MISSION TO PRC: I.E., TO COLLECT INFO ON PRC DOCUMENTATION CONTROL BASED ON SPECIFIC INSTRUCTIONS TO THE ASSET BEFORE LAUNCH.

DATE: 29 JANUARY 75
ORIG: JACK/KOJIMOTO/YET
UNIT: CH/OCEA

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

SECRET

--- Page 24 ---

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY
SECRET

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER
650063
DISSEM BY:

4. PLEASE ADVISE BY 14 FEBRUARY. IMPDET.

*REQUEST ADDRESSEE STATIONS NOTIFY HQS IN ADVANCE OF ANY UPCOMING TRIPS TO THE PRC BY ITS OVERSEAS CHINESE ASSETS.

COORD: OTS/AB - THOMAS KLINE (DRAFT)
AC/LA/M - R. U. STONE (DRAFT)
DC/LA/NW - J. HENNESSY (DRAFT)
[FOR] C/LA/SB - P. KITTREDGE (DRAFT)

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

--- Page 25 ---

14-00000

TRSA 347
Date : 20 May 1949
Corrective mice filming.
201-168881

--- Page 26 ---

14-00000

SENT TO RID/AN
22 Dec. 20
201-168881

TZPW 411 8 Jan 49
TRSW 275 27 Dec 48
TRSA 925 11 May 51
TRSW 643 28 May 51
TRSA 974 10 July 51
TZPA 365/01 4 Nov 48

--- Page 27 ---

14-00000

SECURITY INFORMATION:

Chief of Station, San Jose
Acting Chief, WHD
DEC 7 1951
HUMANOID
REFS:
a. TRS-W-1934.
b. TRS-A-685

1. Headquarters files have just been audibly augmented through the receipt of references a., which to may the least, shade considerable, needed light on this operation. This was a most welcome clarification of many of our questions concerning HUMANOID.

2. Upon his return to Headquarters, Dennis E. COPELAND reported your desire to have HUMANOID sign a new contract. It is suggested in this regard that you furnish as soon as possible any provisions which you wish to recommend for inclusion in the contract, such recommendations will of course be in conformity with Sec. 8-1 of the Regulations governing contract agents, not career agents. It would be most advantageous to submit such a contract for consideration simultaneously with a request for renewal of the operation at the end of February 1952.

3. Relative to your mention in paragraph 2 of reference a., at the present time, TRS-W-685 is the current approved version of the extent of HUMANOID's operational activities. It is firmly believed that these restrictions will be removed when, in February 1952, this operation will be considered for renewal by the Staff which imposed the curtailment. It is urged that in your quarterly review for the period ending 31 December 1951 you give Headquarters the benefit of another specific detailed report. At that time, we will also extend a request for increased salary for HUMANOID.

W. H. M. WHEELER, JR.
By J. C. Bonnet
R. H. RASTETTER
7 Dec. 51

SECRET
201-168881

--- Page 28 ---

14-00000

SECURITY INFORMATION
DISPATCH NO. TRSA-1084

TO: Chief, WHD
FROM: Chief of Station, San José
SUBJECT: GENERAL - Operational
SPECIFIC - HUMANOID Project
Ref: TRSW-685, TRSA-1056, WASH 14671

1. TRSW-685, which advises that the expiration date of this project has been determined to be 29 February 1952, was received several days after the forwarding of TRSA-1056, which recommended that subject be considered for career agent status. Although TRSA-1056 furnished certain of the data requested by headquarters, the following additional information, queries and comments are set forth with a view to facilitating a final evaluation of the project.

2. Pursuant to the approval contained in TRSW-655, dated June 29, 1951, HUMANOID has been and is currently acting as cutout for HUMANIST-2, as well as for HUMANKIND-1 and HUMANKIND-3. It is therefore not clear whether paragraph 2.b. of TRSA-685 is to be interpreted as a new restriction on his activities which is to be placed into effect at this time. In other words, is headquarters' approval of the suggestions contained in TRSA-950 now withdrawn?

3. As discussed in TRSA-950, assistance was extended HUMANOID in setting up a photography and photocopy shop on the fringe of the downtown area. Funds formerly used for rental of a safehouse were applied instead as rental for his photo shop, with the purpose of providing a safe meeting place between HUMANOID and HUMANIST-2 and to provide a more accessible spot for the processing of HUMANKIND material. Early in July 1951, after two or three weeks experience with photostating HUMANKIND material at the studio demonstrated the unsuitability of the arrangement, HUMANOID resumed his photostatic work in his own home. The studio has continued to serve as a meeting place for HUMANIST-2. The following considerations entered into the decision to discontinue processing HUMANKIND-1 and 3 material at the photo studio: 1) The conspicuous nature of the equipment in a small shop; 2) the security risks caused by the presence in the studio of HUMANOID's local employee; and 3) the lack of any secure storage space for compromising material.

201-168881

4. Since the dispatch of TRSA-1056, HUMANOID has been notified by his photographic assistant that the latter is resigning

SECRET

--- Page 29 ---

14-00000

SECURITY INFORMATION
Page 2 TRSA-1084

to seek more remunerative employment at the end of this month. HUMANOID states that he is unable to devote sufficient time to the business to keep it going without an assistant and that it would be quite difficult to locate a competent workman at the salary level he can afford to pay. The above facts, plus unfavorable findings of a recent financial analysis of his business, have convinced HUMANOID to close the photograph shop at the end of November.

5. In connection with paragraph 2.d. of TRSW-685, which states that HUMANOID must discontinue using his home to reproduce the material obtained from HUMANKIND-1 and HUMANKIND-3, the following brief history of safehouse experience at this station is set forth. A review of the files and discussion with HUMANOID reveals that seven safehouses have been utilized to date:

a. An office room in the