```markdown
RDS ACT OF 1992
(104-10180-10210) [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]
Chief of Station, JMWAVE
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
TYPIC
MICROFILM

Letter From Fletcher M. KNIGHT to Widow of Peter Di GERVENO
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

Action Required: For Your Information

Forwarded under separate cover attachment is a copy of a letter from Fletcher M. KNIGHT to the widow of Peter Di GERVENO for your information.

Ellen F. MARGANY

Attachment:
Letter u/s/c

Distribution:
3-COS, JMWAVE w/att u/s/c

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
UFGS-10515
1 May 1968

Distribution:
1-RID
1-WH/REG/C
1-WH/COG/OPS
1-Originator

OFFICE
CLASSIFICATION
HQS FILE NUMBER
SECRET

15 April 1968

Mrs. Paula R. Rodriguez
9351 S.W. 175th Street
Miami, Florida 33157

Dear Mrs. Rodriguez:

I was deeply moved by your recent letter in which you so eloquently expressed appreciation for help the Agency provided you.

I am most grateful to you for sharing with me your thoughts about your husband's life and his dedication to this Agency. It is very comforting for me to know that we have been a source of strength in your time of sorrow.

If we can be of help as time goes on, please do not hesitate to let us know.

Sincerely,
Richard Helms

Richard Helms
RHelms/ecd - 15/4/68

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

ACTION
INFO
WH/8

SECRET 151839Z CITE CARACAS 8292
DIRECTOR INFO JMWAVE
AKULE CIELBOW
REFS A. HVCW-7746 (NOT SENT JMWAVE)
B. HVCA-14933 (NOT SENT JMWAVE)

1. REQUEST HQS CONSIDER NOT CANCELLING PROJECT CIELBOW. REF B POUCHED 14 NOVEMBER CONTAINS COVER RECOMMENDATIONS AND REQUEST THAT HQS SEEK A REPLACEMENT FOR DIGERVENO, WHOSE DEATH REPORTED BY BANASIAK ON RETURN FROM JMWAVE.

2. HUNKELER AND COS MET NIGHT 14 NOVEMBER TO DISCUSS BUSINESS. DEVELOPMENTS SUBSEQUENT TO DRAFTING OF REF B. HUNKELER BELIEVES IF SPANISH SPEAKING OFFICER WITH BUSINESS EXPERIENCE CAN BE OBTAINED THERE WOULD BE NO PROBLEM IN REPLACING DIGERVENO IN PROPOSED COVER MECHANISM. HUNKELER REPORTS GOOD PROGRESS MADE IN OBTAINING OUTLETS FOR HIS LINES OF MERCHANDISE. AT COS REQUEST HE WILL PREPARE REPORT FOR HQS AND STATION ON THIS PROGRESS UPON HIS RETURN JMWAVE.

3. JMWAVE: REQUEST STATION EXPRESS COS SYMPATHY TO WIFE OF DIGERVENO, WHOSE DEATH BOTH PERSONAL AND OFFICIAL LOSS.

SECRET

DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
KAPOK SECRET
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
FROM
Chief of Station, Caracas
SUBJECT
Cover for Peter J. Di Gerveno
PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
MICROFILM
ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

1. The cover for Peter J. Di Gerveno was discussed by Robert S. Hunkeler, Chester B. Dagnillo and the undersigned on 7 and 9 November 1967. The purpose of the conversations was to determine the most suitable cover to be used under the broad umbrella offered by Hunkeler's various enterprises.

2. The following conclusions were reached:

a. That Di Gerveno will come to Caracas as the representative for some of Hunkeler's sales lines. Specifically he will be the representative for IDENTITY-1, which is Hunkeler's marketing firm.

b. In addition to representing IDENTITY-1, generally, he will specifically be IDENTITY-1's sales agent for IDENTITY-2, IDENTITY-3, and IDENTITY-4 and possibly for IDENTITY-5.

3. IDENTITY-2 is the manufacturer of a wide variety of industrial epoxy products used in the construction industry and as anti-corrosive coatings required by most petroleum companies in Venezuela. Hunkeler has conducted talks with IDENTITY-6, a large local holding company engaged in a broad variety of business enterprises. IDENTITY-6 is interested in marketing the IDENTITY-2 line. As sales agent for IDENTITY-1, Di Gerveno would also serve as a technical advisor to IDENTITY-6, and would not interfere with IDENTITY-6's marketing activities. Under these circumstances Di Gerveno would enjoy a degree of immediate sponsorship by an important local firm which should assist in the rapid solidification of his status cover.

ATTACHMENT: Under Separate Cover
1. Identity List

DISTRIBUTION:
2-C/WHD w/att u/s/c

CROSS REFERENCE TO
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
HVCA - 14933
DATE
13 November 1967
CLASSIFICATION
KAPOK SECRET
HQS FILE NUMBER

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
KAPOK
SECRET

Page 2
HVCA - 14933

4. IDENTITY-3 is a line of liquid fertilizer in which IDENTITY-6 is also interested. However, since the local fertilizer industry enjoys protection in the form of import licensing restrictions, it will take from one to two years of negotiation to determine whether the GOV will permit the importation of this line. Di Gerveno would, in conjunction with IDENTITY-6, represent IDENTITY-1 in the negotiations to obtain such permission. Again, this role would provide a degree of sponsorship by IDENTITY-6 and would enable Di Gerveno to at least meet significant government officials. While his operational objectives do not involve the GOV as a target, he could provide assessment and other operational data useful against this target.

5. IDENTITY-4 produces a line of concrete block manufacturing machinery and accessories. There is little doubt that as capital equipment, these can be imported into Venezuela--but the number of prospective buyers is limited. Such a line would not of itself support Di Gerveno's cover, but would be a satisfactory supplement thereto which would be useful in explaining the fact that he will not devote his full time to any one activity--and to account for at least that portion of his income which could not be justified on the basis of his work on behalf of IDENTITY-2 and -3.

6. IDENTITY-5 produces wrought iron for the utility industry. IDENTITY-1 is considering accepting representation for IDENTITY-5 on a hemisphere wide basis. If this line is accepted, and Di Gerveno represents it locally, it will also help to enhance his status and to account for what would normally be an unusual work pattern.

7. We do not wish at this point to get into a detailed discussion of financial arrangements. If, as we hope, Di Gerveno does make some sales, commissions will be payable to him. If under existing regulations he could keep at least a proportion of these, we would favor it as an incentive to work at his cover. If not, we have confidence that he is a well enough disciplined professional, to work at it in any event.

8. We would expect that the operational duties we have planned for Di Gerveno will take about 20 hours a week. This would involve meetings with the inside case officer; meetings with the agents; preparation of contact reports, drafts of cables, intel reports and dispatches, plus some time to think about his operations.

9. We would expect Di Gerveno to spend the balance of his work week actually performing cover duties. His pattern cannot be neatly defined as four hours for cover and four hours daily for operations. His daily pattern will vary widely and he must retain flexibility in order to be available when needed for operational duties. Nevertheless, to reiterate, he will have time for cover work and will be expected to do it.

10. Under these circumstances, we desire that he be thoroughly trained in his cover duties and that he have a thorough knowledge of the products he is to sell. If it takes 6 months to train him--we expect the 6 months to be used. As part of the training, and to open the door for his PCS arrival, when he has completed cover training with IDENTITY-1 through 4 (or 5), he and Hunkeler should visit Caracas together. Di Gerveno can be introduced by Hunkeler to his commercial contacts, they can seek office space, and, generally, lay the groundwork for Di Gerveno's PCS arrival shortly after the exploratory trip.

11. Please keep us advised on action taken, and progress on this proposal.

12. Just before the release of this dispatch we have learned of Subject's death. This is a cause for real regret--but we would like to ask Headquarters to retain this cover proposal and to seek a possible substitute for Di Gerveno who will have not only good knowledge of the Spanish language, but sufficient commercial background to fit into the proposed cover.

Stefan Labanow

USF PREVIOUS EDITION
KAPOK SECRET

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
KAPOK
SECRET
SEPARATE COVER
ATTACHMENT
NO. 1
TO
HVCA - 14933

IDENTITY-1 - NALAD Corporation
IDENTITY-2 - Eband Epoxies, Inc.
IDENTITY-3 - NA-CHURS Plant Food, Inc.
IDENTITY-4 - JW Appley & Son, Inc.
IDENTITY-5 - A.O. Byers Co; subsidiary of General Tire and Rubber
IDENTITY-6 - Boulton Bros

DISTRIBUTION:
2-C/WHD

SECRET

SECRET
31 October 1967

TO: JMWAVE, CARACAS
INFO: DIRECTOR

AKULE AMCLOCK

REFS: A. JMWAVE 9863 (IN 77992)
B. CARACAS 8124 (IN 78860)
C. DIRECTOR 44104 (NOT SENT CARACAS)

1. REQUEST DIGERVENO TDY HQS ONE DAY DURING WEEK 30 OCT TO DISCUSS FUTURE AMCLOCK OP AND TIMING DIGERVENO PCS CARACAS.

2. TO ASSIST IN FUTURE PLANNING AMCLOCK OPERATION, WOULD APPRECIATE DIGERVENO BEING PREPARED DISCUSS AMCLOCK'S REACTION TO PARAGRAPH TWO REF C DURING HQS TDY.

3. PLEASE ADVISE ETA.

WH/CCG COMMENTS:
*Ref A requested a reading on the status of the plans and timing of DIGERVENO'S proposed PCS transfer to Caracas.
**Ref B suggested HQS and JMWAVE set a date for the release of DIGERVENO from his PBRUMEN duties so he can thereafter spend full time preparing for his Caracas assignment. Ref B also says DIGERVENO'S ETA in Caracas is not critical, and the Caracas Station prefers every effort be made to insure a viable long term cover to trying to meet a date for his arrival in Caracas.

SECRET

SECRET PAGE TWO
CITE DIRECTOR

***Para 2 of Ref C requests DIGERVENO to ask AMCLOCK-1 if he (AMCLOCK-1) could and would be willing to meet and maintain periodic contact with a foreign diplomat in Havana as a means of maintaining communications contact with WOFIRM.

C/WH/COG
William V. Broe
C/WHD

SECRET

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

ACTION
INFO

SECRET 241842Z CITE CARACAS 8124
DIRECTOR INFO JMWAVE DO BASE NEW YORK
RYBAT AKULE PERS
REF JMWAVE 9868 (IN 77992)

1. CARACAS HOPED HAVE DIGERVENO ON DUTY BY ABOUT 1 JAN 68 SINCE THIS WOULD HAVE PROVIDED SUFFICIENT TIME FOR COVER TRAINING AND TIMING WOULD HAVE BEEN GOOD FOR SCHOOL TRANSFERS OF HIS CHILDREN.

2. WHILE WOULD STILL LIKE TO ADHERE TO TIME TABLE ORIGINALLY ENVISAGED, BELIEVED IT IMPORTANT THAT AS MUCH TIME AS NECESSARY BE SPENT ON COVER TRAINING TO INSURE THAT THIS PHASE OF OP IS SUCCESSFUL.

3. SUGGEST HQS AND JMWAVE SET A DATE FOR RELEASE OF DIGERVENO FROM PBRUMEN DUTIES SO THAT HE CAN THEREAFTER SPEND FULL TIME PREPARING FOR CARACAS ASSIGNMENT. REALIZE IMPORTANCE AMCLOCK I OP AND IF DIGERVENO PRESENCE CONTINUES BE ESSENTIAL TO THAT OP, SUGGEST PREPARATIONS BE MADE RELEASE DIGERVENO FROM PBRUMEN DUTIES ABOUT 1 JAN; THAT TRAINING BE CONDUCTED WITH DUE DELIBERATION TO INSURE THOROUGHNESS; AND THAT CONSIDERATION BE

SECRET

PAGE 2 CARACAS 8124 SECRET
GIVEN HAVING DIGERVENO LEAVE FAMILY JMWAVE UNTIL END SCHOOL SEMESTER JUNE 68.

4. IN SUM, DIGERVENO ETA NOT CRITICAL AND STATION PREFERS EVERY EFFORT BE MADE INSURE VIABLE LONG TERM COVER TO TRYING MEET AN ARBITRARY DATE FOR HIS ARRIVAL.

SECRET

SECRET
3 October 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR: Central Cover Staff/Non-Official
SUBJECT: Non-Official Cover Request for Peter J. DI GERVENO (p)

1. Approval for non-official cover for Peter J. DI GERVENO (p) (former AMIRE-1) is requested. This Career Agent has been employed under the same pseudonym since July 1961. During the period June 1960 through July 1961, he carried the cryptonym AMIRE-1. Central Cover Staff has not been requested to develop non-official cover for this agent before.

2. Peter J. DI GERVENO (p) is a Career Agent in the JMWAVE Station and will go to Caracas, Venezuela, in the same employment capacity. The proposed salary for him will be $13,769 per year (equivalent GS-13/3). Other allowances which DI GERVENO will be entitled to during his assignment will be as follows:

Quarters Allowance $4,600 p.a.
Post Differential 10%
Equalization Allowance $2,200 p.a.
Education Allowance
2 children at $900 p.a. each 1,800 p.a.
2 children at $1,000 p.a. each 2,000 p.a.
Transfer Allowance $175
Temporary Lodging Allowance
$9.00 per day per adult up to 90 days
$4.50 per day per child under 11 years
Supplementary Post - Allowance
for 5 dependents (other than wife and self) for up to 90 days at $5.00 per day.

SECRET

Furniture Monetary Allowance $4,500
(does not include appliances)
Appliances $650
Stove $125.00
Refrigerator $295.00
Freezer $230.00

Costs of Air Travel and shipment of
personal effects $5,865.75

Total air fare from Miami
to Caracas for six adults
and one child $929.50

Total per diem for 8
day at $25.00 a piece
for six adults and one
child $81.25

Passport charges (pictures,
fees, etc) for seven persons $35.00

Taxis to and from
airports $20.00

Total HHG shipping and
storage of 12,000 lbs at
$40.00 per CWT - estimate
includes excess baggage
and air freight $4,800.00

Reimbursement for Venezuelan Income Tax computed
at 6% of reported salary, estimated at
$13,769 $1,102 p.a.

Reimbursement for operational use
DI GERVENO private vehicle. $600 p.a.

3. DI GERVENO and family are considered to be mentally and physically fit for overseas duty.

4. Current and previous cover utilized by Subject are as follows:

(a) Subject was legitimately employed in Havana, Cuba, as the manager of a combined Havana District Sales Office which handled the individual businesses of several US firms during the

SECRET

period 1954 through July 1961. His income during that period of time was approximately $10,000 per year.

(b) Subject has been under non-official cover from July 1961 to the present as a consultant for the Roberts Electronic and Engineering Service. This cover is backstopped from the principal office in New Jersey.

5. Subject is available to assume the proposed cover immediately.

6. It is proposed that subject arrive in Caracas around the beginning of January 1968.

7. The project cryptonym under which Subject will be carried is CIELBOW.

8. Biographic Information

1. Date and place of birth: 27 January 1928 in Havana, Cuba.
Sex: Male.
Race: Caucasian - mildly dark skin.
Religion: Roman Catholic
Citizenship: US (naturalized)
Previous citizenship: Cuban (by birth)
Marital Status: married.

Children: three sons and one daughter ranging in ages from 10 to 16 years old)

Present residence address: 9361 S.W. 178th Street
Perrine 57, Florida

2. Number and relationship of dependents to accompany Subject on his foreign assignment;

Wife
Four children - ranging in age from 10 to 16
Mother-in-law

All of above dependents live with Subject at the address listed as Subject's present residence.

SECRET

- 4 -

3. Education: Tulane University (1945-1948) - Subject obtained a BS in Psychology

Tulane University (1948-1954) - Subject obtained a MA in Humanities and lacks one year to complete PH. D.

4. Subject was a legitimate businessman in Havana, Cuba, from 1954 through July 1961. He was the general manager of a Havana District Sales Office which represented several US firms (Appleton Electric Co., Century Electric, Hubbard Aluminum Products, Okonite Company) in Cuba. In the ensuing period from July 1961 to the present, Subject has been employed by a CIA-created commercial organization (JMOCEAN), during which time it might be presumed that Subject acquired additional commercial expertise. Subject's salary has ranged from $10,000 (in Cuba) to $13,769 (currently).

5. Outside interests which might provide basis for cover development: None.

6. Objective personality evaluation: Subject is very friendly, outgoing, neat in appearance and fully bi-lingual. His fitness reports reflect his congeniality in addition to his conscientious behavior and attitude.

7. Subject is considered to be financially solvent and to be without any unnatural debts or outstanding loans.

8. Previous foreign residence: Subject lived in the US for nine years while attending Tulane University. The remainder of Subject's life has been spent in Havana, Cuba, or Miami, Florida. Subject has had several fairly extensive TDYs to several Latin American countries.

9. Subject is fully bi-lingual (Spanish and English). He has limited capability in Portuguese, Italian and French. He is being assigned to a Spanish speaking country.

C. Security Considerations

1. Subject has been employed by CIA since June 1950. Subject was granted a Type A clearance on 5 September 1961 in addition to the issuance of a CSA on 27 January 1955 (# 214 422) to permit Subject's conversion from Contract Employee to Career Agent Status.

2. Subject is fully witting of CIA interest.

SECRET

3. Subject's Type A clearance permitted him to work in the JMWAVE Station during much of his tour in Miami. He has been inside Headquarters building on at least four occasions.

4. Subject was the principal Agent for a Cuban stay-behind operation during the period June 1960 through July 1961. On four occasions, he was held and questioned for short periods of time by Cuban D-2. While there is no evidence that Cuban IS has positively identified Subject as a CIA asset, it can be presumed that Cuban IS is alert to the strong possibility of Subject's CIA connection. Subject's wife is fully witting of Subject's true employment. Subject may have been exposed to other than CIA staff employees by one of the members of his stay-behind net either during the period when he was operationally active in Cuba or subsequently. However, while in Miami, Subject has studiously avoided contact with the Cuban community, thereby obviating further speculation about his present employment. Subject's cover during his tenure in Miami (from July 1961 to the present) appears to have been excellent.

There are no relatives or close friends of Subject or his wife in Venezuela.

5. No connection with any intelligence organization other than CIA.

6. No adverse factors in Subject's personal life.

7. Subject has never used any Agency reference.

8. & 9. After his present proposed tour, Subject will be expected to continue in a similar capacity elsewhere in the WIL area. It is expected that Subject's tour in Caracas will be at least four years.

9. Paula Ross RODRIGUEZ - wife. Resides with Subject.

10. Subject has both contract life insurance and contract hospitalization under the auspices of this Agency.

11. No members of Subject's family have current clearances. Subject's wife is the only member of his family that is witting of his true employment.

SECRET

D. Operational information

1. Type of Operation.

Subject will be a Principal Agent for established agents, specifically tested penetrations of leftist/extremist groups in Venezuela. In the course of his activities, he will act as a spotter and assessor of new agents, but will not be expected to participate in attributable recruitment attempts.

2. Location.

Caracas, Venezuela.

3. Subject should be able to travel freely throughout Venezuela in addition to being able to occasionally make TDY trips to other Latin American countries and Europe.

4. Special Groups agent should be able to contact.

There are special groups Subject should be able to contact, beyond those he could normally approach, given his background and education.

5. Subject should be able to attribute an income of at least $18,000 per year.

6. Subject should be able to devote at least 30 hours a week to operational duties.

7. Communications channels desired.

No special communications channels will be necessary.

8. Cover Suggestions

Cover arrangements have been initiated with HUNKELER in Miami. HUNKELER has a consultant and sales organization operating in Latin America and is considered by WH Division as being able to provide excellent cover for Subject.

William V. Broe
Chief
Western Hemisphere Division

SECRET

SECRET
NONOFFICIAL COVER REQUEST
FOR INDIVIDUAL
HEADQUARTERS EDITION

SECRET

NONOFFICIAL COVER REQUEST
FOR INDIVIDUAL

To insure the most effective application of nonofficial cover, it is essential that cover requirements be brought to the attention of Central Cover Staff in the earliest stages of planning. As soon as it has been determined that an agent is to be placed under nonofficial cover, either In the United States or abroad, a meeting with a representative of Central Cover Staff should be arranged. (When outside recruitment of an agent for a nonofficial cover assignment is contemplated, Central Cover Staff facilities are available to facilitate "clean" recruitments and protect the agent against identification with CIA during the integration period.) Initial discussions will be informal and exploratory and should result in the elimination of unsuitable cover possibilities. Central Cover Staff, Nonofficial Cover Branch telephone extensions are 5144 and 5122.

Following the initial discussion, and based upon it, a cover requirement memorandum signed by or for the operating division chief should be submitted to Central Cover Staff. It is specifically requested that a headquarters case officer other than the agent himself be designated to deal with Central Cover Staff in the development of the desired non-official cover, including the preparation of the cover requirement memorandum, in order that this development may proceed on a completely objective basis. This memorandum may be keyed to the paragraphs numbered below to obviate repetition.

No commitments will be made with any cover organization until Central Cover Staff has been advised by memorandum that the proposed cover and the agent's participation in the operation have been concurred in by the field and/or the Chief of Operations, DD/P. Such memoranda are to be signed by or for the division chief. Each agent proposed for a nonofficial cover assignment is subject also to personal interview by a designee of Chief, Central Cover Staff, for assessment as to his suitability for the proposed cover. This interview, when required, will be requested by Central Cover Staff.

At the conclusion of the discussions with the operating divisions and discussions between representatives of Central Cover Staff and the cover organization, two formal documents ordinarily will be prepared:

a. The first, a "Letter of Cover Instructions" addressed to the agent will be prepared by the Central Cover Staff. It will outline exactly the cover story to be employed and will specify what is expected of the agent to maintain a proper relationship to the cover facility. Each item in the instructions will be discussed with the agent and/or his case officer by the Central Cover Staff case officer, after which the agent will be required to acknowledge the receipt of these instructions. The branch chief concerned will also be

SECRET

SECRET

asked to indicate that nothing in the "Letter of Cover Instructions" conflicts with instructions given the agent by the operating division.

b. When the cover facility is a legitimate organization rather than an Agency-controlled mechanism, a "Letter of Understanding" with the cover organization is prepared by Contract Personnel Division. It is the "contract" with the cover organization.

The "Letter of Understanding" and the "Letter of Cover Instructions" will be submitted to the operating division for comments and concurrence before presentation, respectively, to the cover organization and the agent for signature. Sanitized copies, in duplicate, of both the "Letter of Cover Instructions" and the "Letter of Understanding" will be furnished the operating division—one copy of each for headquarters retention and one for transmittal to and retention by the field station for its guidance and reference by the agent as required.

NONOFFICIAL COVER REQUEST

GENERAL INFORMATION

1. Pseudonym of agent to be covered and any pseudonyms, cryptonyms or aliases used previously. Has Central Cover Staff been requested to develop nonofficial cover for this agent before? If so, under what pseudonym, cryptonym or alias?

2. Current employment status and contemplated Agency status under cover if different from current status, i.e., Staff Employee, Staff Agent, Contract Employee, Contract Agent, Career Agent, etc.; Agency salary range, kinds and amounts of allowances to which agent will be entitled during his assignment under non-official cover.

3. Is the agent now considered by the Agency's Medical, Psychiatric, Assessment and Evaluations Staffs to be fit for overseas duty?

4. Current and or previous nonofficial or official covers employed by the agent, including foreign and domestic, formal or informal cover stories, with a statement as to the extent of backstopping in each case. Unbackstopped, informal cover stories used for domestic disguise of CIA staff employment are specifically requested.

5. Date of availability of agent to assume the cover.

6. Proposed date of departure for overseas post. It must be recognized that cover necessitating the development of a new facility frequently requires several weeks for the necessary clearances of the proposed cover facility's committing officials. Additional weeks of negotiation, company training, etc., often are necessary.

7. Project cryptonym under which agent will be carried. If there is no approved project in the conventional form, the basic authority should be cited and a statement given that funds are available to support any financial commitments made to the cover organization.

B. BIOGRAPHIC INFORMATION

1. Date and place of birth, sex, race, religion, current citizenship status, previous citizenship(s), marital status, children, present and last previous residence addresses.

2. Number and relationship of adult dependents to accompany agent on his foreign assignment, together with current residence and a statement as to availability of biographical information on each. Number and relationship of minors who are to accompany.

3. Education (college transcripts may be required where academic cover desired).

4. Business or professional experience including salary ranges in previous positions.

5. Outside interests, hobbies, etc., which might provide basis for cover development.

6. Objective personality evaluation.

7. Agent’s personal financial status in general terms, including approximate amount of loans and debts outstanding.

8. Previous foreign residence—generally discussed.

9. Language abilities with particular reference to language(s) indigenous to the area of assignment. If English is not agent's native language, state the degree of proficiency in English.

C. SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS

1. How long has the agent been employed by CIA? Security approval number, date issued, and purpose for which granted. Any derogatory information developed by investigation.

2. Is agent to know specifically of CIA interest, only of U.S. Government interest, or neither?

3. How frequently has agent entered CIA headquarters installations or field installations substantially identified as CIA?

4. Cite any identification of agent's CIA connection to other than CIA staff personnel. Include relatives, friends, neighbors. Cite any known or suspected foreign intelligence interest in agent at any time and any known incidents or circumstances which may have tended to compromise his cover security. Does the agent or spouse have relatives or close friends in or near the area of assignment? Are they presumed witting or unwitting of his U.S. Government connection?

SECRET

SECRET

5. Has agent any past connection with or has his intelligence status been identified to OSS, SSU, CIG, G-2, A-2, CIC, ONI or any foreign intelligence, police or security service? Is any such connection known outside CIA and the service involved?

6. Any other factors, such as family problems, which might have bearing upon the personal security of the agent or his ability to live his cover.

7. Has agent ever given CIA, Miss Violet Pitts, or "2430 E Street" or other potentially compromising reference for credit or other purposes? If so, where and approximately when? Cite any other instances of employment of cover for credit or other purposes not already cited above. Include specifically use of Agency-provided cover units or facilities.

8. After the currently proposed tour, do present plans for this agent contemplate (a) continuation in a nonofficial cover status; (b) transfer to an official cover status; (c) assignment to headquarters or (d) termination? It must be recognized that protection of certain nonofficial cover facilities precludes early assignment to a more compromising cover status after completion of the non-official cover tour.

9. If this request is for interim cover, what are foreseeable plans for eventual, more permanent cover?

10. Identity, relationship, degree of knowledgeability, and address of person designated to Chief, Benefits and Counseling Branch, Office of Personnel for contact in the event of an emergency situation involving agent, as prescribed by HR 20-46.

11. Government or Agency-affiliated beneficial plans in which agent participates (WAEPA, GEHA, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance, Association Benefit Plan, etc.) and other personal insurance held, together with identity and location of beneficiaries and whether or not each beneficiary is witting of agent's CIA affiliation.

12. Agent's Selective Service, military or naval reserve status, including current unit attachment.

13. Clearance status of agent, spouse, and other adult dependents who will accompany agent overseas. Are spouse and adult dependents knowledgeable of agent's CIA connection? His Government connection? Has agent been polygraphed?

D. OPERATIONAL INFORMATION

1. Type of Operation

The general type of operation involved, l.e., CA, FI, COMMO, Logistics, etc., and the expected duration of assignment. The sensitivity of the operation should be indicated—e.g., observation, spotting and reporting only; case officer for established agents; recruitment of new agents; penetration operation—and a statement should be included as to the identities of any individuals and organizations, in the U.S. or abroad (other than CIA staff personnel, cover facility officials, and those listed under 2(C)(4) above), who are or will be made witting of agent's CIA or U.S. Government affiliation while he is under this nonofficial cover.

2. Location

The city in which the agent is to reside should be specifically stated and alternates in order of preference should be given

3. Indicate localities outside of agent's permanent location which agent should be free to visit and state the frequency and duration of such visits. Also it is important to know whether or not the time and intervals of such meetings will be determined by the agent or dictated by influences or circumstances beyond his control.

4. Special groups agent should be able to contact

It is sometimes possible to relate a cover to a particular group in the operational area, i.c., social, cultural, political, commercial. If this is considered an important factor in the cover, this aspect of the requirement should be explained in detail.

5. Approximate annual income which agent must be able to attribute to the cover organization. Sound cover, of course, requires overt (cover) explanation for a reasonable approximation of the sum actually to be available to the agent through Agency salary and allowances. However, a professional intelligence agent's qualifications frequently cannot plausibly command an ostensible income from commercial or other lay sources nearly approaching his Agency income. Firm understanding should be had relative to the agent's living within his cover income. Reservation of a portion of his Agency remuneration may be required. A less desirable alternative is the provision of additional cover for income.

6. Estimate of the minimum number of hours per week which the agent must devote to operational duties.

7. Communications channels desired

In rare instances it may be possible to set up SW means of communication through the cover facility. If this is desired, the justification and frequency of such communication facilities should be indicated.

8. Cover Suggestions

Any specific cover suggestion or preferences expressed either by the agent or the operating division emphasizing the agent's special suitability to the cover suggested and or the special advantages of the cover vis-a-vis the target.

SECRET

SECRET

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

ACTION
INFO

SECRET 282200Z CITE CARACAS 7683
DIRECTOR, JMWAVE
KAPOK
REFS: A. DIRECTOR 29984
B. JMWAVE 8954 (N 38449)

1. LABANOW MET WITH DIGERVENO AT AIRPORT 24 AUGUST AND DISCUSSED OP. HUNKELER PRESENCE AT AIRPORT TO SEE OFF BUSINESS ASSOCIATES FACILITATED PRELIMINARY THREE SIDED CONVERSATION RE COVER POSSIBILITIES AND TRAINING. HUNKELER AND DIGERVENO WHO ALREADY ACQUAINTED, APPEAR HAVE GOOD RAPPORT.

2. DISCUSSION CENTERED AROUND TRAINING, BUT IT CLEAR THAT HUNKELER FIRM OFFERS WIDE SCOPE COVER OPPORTUNITIES EITHER AS SALES REP, IN MARKET ANALYSIS, OR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT SURVEYS. IN CONNECTION WITH LATTER, HUNKELER FIRM PLANS INITIATE STUDY IN COSTA RICA DURING NEXT SEVERAL WEEKS WHICH MAY OFFER OPPORTUNITY FOR ON THE JOB TRAINING FOR DIGERVENO IF LATTER SPECIALTY DECIDED UPON.

3. FOR IMMEDIATE FUTURE SUGGEST THAT FOLLOW ACTION BE TAKEN CONCURRENTLY WITH PREPARATION PROJECT IN ORDER TRY GET DIGERVENO IN PLACE BY 1 JAN 68:

A. HQS REP TRAVEL JMWAVE CONFER WITH HUNKELER AND

SECRET

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

ACTION
INFO

PAGE TWO CARACAS 7683 SECRET
DIGERVENO TO PINPOINT COVER ASSIGNMENT AND PREPARE COVER TRAINING PROGRAM.

B. THAT DIGERVENO BE MADE AVAILABLE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE TO UNDERTAKE FULL TIME TRAINING FOR COVER ROLE.

C. IF POSSIBLE, DURING TRAINING PERIOD, SUGGEST DIGERVENO TDY CARACAS FOR ABOUT ONE WEEK TO REVIEW SITUATION AND DISCUSS OP WITH STATION.

SECRET

SECRET
18 August 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH/3
FROM: Chief, WH/3/Venezuela
SUBJECT: Assignment of Emilio Rodrigues

1. I wish to make it clear that I do not oppose the assignment of Rodrigues per se to Venezuela, but I do have some reservations on what he is going to be doing. COS, Caracas intends to use him as the case officer for the CIHAVOC and CITILT Projects. Since both are basically CB/CI projects I think this is a great mistake. The amount of research in these projects necessarily requires a great amount of files research which Rodrigues in his cover situation will not be able to do. This will entail a greater amount of work for the inside case officer, defeating the purpose for which Rodrigues was originally considered; freeing the inside case officer for developmental work.

2. The introduction of Rodrigues into the CIHAVOC Case will also introduce one more step through which most of the vital information that CIHAVOC-2 produces must pass. For example, his info now goes through CIHAVOC-1 to the case officer. With the addition of Rodrigues one more time consuming step will be added.

3. I am also of the firm opinion that different case officers should be used for these operations since both are penetrations of the same party and at times produce similar info. In addition,