```markdown
1fioa-10088-10026 2 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

☐ CLASSIFIED ☐

SUBJECT: Indications of the Scope and Possible Damage
of New Allegations by Ramparts Magazine

FROM: C/CCS

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)
C/CIOP/DO
MW
2 B 23 HQS
Paul Heff
SCB/IP/ISS

DATE RECEIVED FORWARDED
25 November 1968

OFFICER'S INITIALS COMMENTS: (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

ATTENTION: Mr. Richard Ober
BY HAND

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

SENSITIVE
SECRET

FORM 610"
3-62 USE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS

✓ SECRET ☐ CONFIDENTIAL
INTERNAL
USE ONLY
UNCLASSIFIED

---

14-00000

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Plans
THROUGH: Assistant Deputy Director for Plans
SUBJECT: Indications of the Scope and Possible
Damage of New Allegations by Ramparts
Magazine

1. This memorandum is furnished for information only.

2. Early in April 1968 the Office of the General Counsel made available to Central Cover Staff (CCS) a copy of a letter and an attached list of organizations sent to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) by Mr. Jon Frappier of Ramparts Magazine. The letter, dated 5 April 1968, had been furnished OGC through IRS liaison channels. The letter appended a list of 145 tax-exempt organizations and indicated that all were suspected of having been funded by or having cooperated with CIA.

3. The letter indicated that the listed organizations were only a part of the organizations being scrutinized by Ramparts and that other available sources of information on these and other suspect organizations had already been examined. The other sources of information were stated as including the literature of the organizations and interviews with their staff members; records available in the Attorney General's offices in Illinois, Massachusetts, and New York; data available at the National Information Bureau in New York, Group Research, Inc., in Washington, D.C., and the Foundation Library Centers in New York and Washington; and the 990-A returns available at the district offices of the IRS. The letter requested 990-A

03979

---

14-00000

SENSITIVE
SECRET

-2-

returns for specified years and in most cases the Form 1023 Application for Tax Exempt Status. Ramparts asked the IRS to make these materials available for inspection at a mutually convenient time.

4. A review of available CIA data on the listed organizations has shown that 89 of them were at one time or another somehow associated with CIA. Only two of these: Institute for International Youth Affairs (CA/B3 Project QETROW) and African-American Labor Center, Inc. (CA/B4 Project QRSTUMP) are of current operational interest. These two activities and 45 organizations formerly of interest to CIA were mentioned in the American press during [MHDOWEL]. Forty-two other listed organizations which were in fact associated with CIA were not exposed during [MHDOWEL]. We have found no evidence that 55 organizations on the list were ever directly or indirectly associated with CIA. (Because two of the names on the list are successive names for the same organization, the actual total number of organizations listed is 144 rather than 145.) Three additional project organizations, not included in the Ramparts list, may be vulnerable because they were covertly funded by hitherto unexposed foundation funding instruments included in the list. Only one of these, World Veterans Federation (CA/B3 Project TPGLARE) is of current operational interest.

5. The CA Staff was furnished a copy of the Ramparts letter and list and has checked out the organizations of possible previous CA Staff interest. All organizations not readily identifiable with known project organizations or as CCS funding instruments have been traced with RID, with CS area divisions that might logically have had an interest in them and against CCS Registry files. Through arrangements with the IRS, representatives of CCS and OGC also examined available IRS data (990-A's and Forms 1023) on the listed organizations. This was done before the IRS documents were made available to Ramparts, in order to be sure that restricted 990-A, Part I data would not be furnished to Ramparts and to try to establish the reasons for Ramparts' interest in the organizations. Our current findings are the results of these various file reviews.

6. Attached hereto are annexes listing and discussing the several categories of organizations on the Ramparts list. Annex A deals with the two organizations on the list which are still of active operational interest. Both received

---

14-00000

SENSITIVE
SECRET

-3-

press mention during [MHDOWEL]. Annex B lists and discusses under several sub-categories the 42 organizations with which the Agency has had some direct or indirect operational ties in the past which were not cited in the press during [MHDOWEL]. Annex C lists the 45 organizations included in the April 1968 list which had former Agency operational ties which were subject to press allegations during [MHDOWEL]. Annex D lists and briefly discusses the 55 organizations included in the Ramparts list that had no known operational connection with CIA. Annex E lists and discusses three hitherto unexposed operational activities that are not included in the April 1968 Ramparts list but which are vulnerable because they were covertly funded by hitherto unexposed funding instruments included in the Ramparts list. Annex F shows a copy of the full April 1968 Ramparts list.

7. The 42 former project organizations listed and described at Annex B which have not previously been charged with CIA association in American press comment fall into five general categories:

a. Foundations and other organizations used as witting funding conduits for covert subsidies to project organizations and other operational activities. Sixteen organizations fall into this category. Eleven of them are multipurpose legitimate foundations, which were recruited by CCS. Four were created or recruited for exclusive use in funding one project each and one was used for a one-time travel grant.

b. Witting legitimate foundations and organizations used exclusively to provide funding and status cover for singleton agents. Six organizations were used in this way and provided cover for seven agents in various parts of the world. Some of these organizations also provided one-time support for unwitting individuals of operational interest.

c. Proprietary or subsidy project organizations. There are six of these: Projects CAMANTILLA, WUHUSTLER, FOOLPROOF, HTNAMABLE, SGPANFISH, and AESTRIKER.

d. Three organizations with which there were witting operational contacts to obtain information and leads but which were not actively involved operationally.

---

14-00000

SENSITIVE
SECRET

-4-

e. Eleven unwitting organizations which received grants from project organizations for operational or cover reasons or which cooperated with project organizations.

8. We cannot say with complete assurance that all 55 of the apparently innocent organizations on the Ramparts list in fact never had any Agency ties. Our researches have shown that RID indices are often incomplete. We have found operational use data in CCS files on organizations with no record in RID. The same is true in other cases where information was available in CA Staff or area division files on organizations which drew a blank in RID. It seems likely, however, that any undetected operational interest in the organizations was in the period of the early 1950's and of a marginal nature.

9. In reviewing available information on the listed organizations we attempted to determine whether there was a logical external basis for Ramparts' interest in the organizations or whether some form of internal Agency leak might be involved. Our reviews and analysis show fairly conclusively that Ramparts has been proceeding on the basis of overtly available information, supplemented by interviews with project personnel:

a. All but three of the 42 terminated but hitherto unexposed project organizations and 24 of the 55 organizations which actually had no Agency ties are somehow related to project organizations or funding instruments previously exposed. Some of the organizations made legitimate or covert grants to previously exposed organizations, others received covert or legitimate grants from previously exposed funding instruments or from innocent foundations that had made legitimate grants to exposed organizations, and still others had officers who were associated with exposed CIA organizations.

b. Thirty-one innocent organizations on the Ramparts list and three of the hitherto unexposed organizations of former interest to the Agency have no such known ties to exposed Agency organizations. In most of these cases, however, the names of the organizations are similar to those of exposed organizations or are of a nature that makes them suspect.

---

14-00000

SENSITIVE
SECRET

-5-

10. It seems likely that Ramparts' interest in a number of the 42 unexposed project organizations is based on factors unrelated to the actual CIA dealings with them.

11. The Headquarters elements that are or were responsible for the projects and activities that could be implicated by new Ramparts allegations have been notified of the foregoing findings. No further action is required at this time.

CHARLES KATEK
Chief, Central Cover Staff

Attachments
(Annexes)

cc:
C/CA
C/CI
C/CIOP/DO
C/FI/OPS
DDP/OPSER/CCS/PRG/WMPillsbury:f1 (5071/9328)

---

14-00000

NOTE:

The numbers in parentheses following listed or named organizations in Annexes A through E are the item numbers of organizations included in the 5 April 1968 Ramparts list (Annex F).

---

14-00000

ANNEX A

ORGANIZATIONS ON 5 APRIL 1968 RAMPARTS LIST
THAT ARE OF CURRENT OPERATIONAL INTEREST

1. [African-American Labor Center, Inc., (AALC)], Manhattan, New York (2)

[CA/B4 Project QRSTUMP. Irving Brown (T)] continues as [AALC] Executive Director and uses this relationship as status cover for operational travels in African and Europe. Although covert funding of [AALC] has been suspended, black-bag payments to Brown and by him to operational contacts may be implicitly attributed to [AALC]. [AALC] received press publicity during [MHDOWEL]. Brown was named as a CIA agent in the Braden Saturday Evening Post article.

2. [Institute for International Youth Affairs], Manhattan, New York (79)

[CA/B3 Project QRTROW. Under Katzenbach guidelines and DDP decisions, IIYA was to be re-established abroad as a condition for continuation of the project. Various possibilities in Europe have been explored and vetoed. Steps are currently being taken to relocate the activity in Belgium.

[IIYA] received limited press mention during [MHDOWEL] and only in the context of its Free Europe Committee origins and its former funding by the International Development Foundation (terminated WH Project GOALIBI) (88).

IIYA is vulnerable because of its former funding by the Colt (41) and Ronthelym (129) Foundations, as well as by the Helena Rubinstein Foundation (not on the 5 April 1968 list but of known interest to Ramparts) and by the Florence (58) and W. Alton Jones (99) Foundations (exposed during [MHDOWEL]).

---

14-00000

SENSITIVE
SECRET

ANNEX B

FORTY-TWO PREVIOUSLY UNEXPOSED ORGANIZATIONS
WITH FORMER CIA OPERATIONAL TIES

A.

Sixteen Witting Conduits Used for Attributed Covert
Subsidy Funding

1. [Branta Foundation - White Plains, New York (32)]

CCS-recruited legitimate foundation (LPCORSET/69). Used in 1964 for a covert grant to the unexposed Freedom Fund, Inc. (61) and in 1965 for a covert grant to the exposed International Development Foundation (88). [Branta] is the family foundation of Jean and Harvey Picker. Jean Picker was president of the exposed Committee of Correspondence (44) (CA/B3 Project JEFERVENT).

2. [Colt Foundation, Inc. - Manhattan, New York (41)]

CCS-recruited legitimate foundation (LPCORSET/24). Used 1960-1966 for covert grants to the following exposed project organizations: AMSAC (24) (TPFOUMART), CCS (QKOPERA), AFFJ (17) (QKFEARFUL), IDF (88) (QRBEND/UOALIBI), AAI (1) (YQFLUENT), TAF (DIPILLAR), USNSA (WSCHILD), IRS (76) (TPPAPMEXT), and IIYA (79) (QRTROW). Colt was also used for 1962-1965 covert grants to the hitherto unexposed project organization SEI (132) (HTNAMABLE).

3. [Little Foundation, Willoughby - Providence, Rhode Island (107)]

CCS-recruited legitimate foundation (LPCORSET/32). Used 1961-1964 for covert grants to exposed AMSAC (24) (TPFOUMART), IDF (88) (QRBEND/UOALIBI) and AAI (1) (YQFLUENT/QRFLUENT).

---

14-00000

SENSITIVE
SECRET

4. [Magowan Family Foundation - Manhattan, New York (108)]

CCS-recruited legitimate foundation (LPCORSET/84). Used in 1965 for covert grants to the exposed RFEF (TPTONIC) and the unexposed [SEI (132) (HTNAMABLE)].

5. [Meek Foundation - Greenwich, Connecticut (110)]

CCS-recruited legitimate foundation (LPCORSET/45). Used 1961-1965 for covert grants to the exposed AAI (1) (YQFLUENT/QRFLUENT), IDF (88) (QRBEND/UOALIBI) and TAF (DIPILLAR). Name was listed as a contributor in an AAI (1) publicity brochure.

6. [Munson Foundation - Manhattan, New York (112)]

CCS-recruited legitimate foundation (LPCORSET/42). Used 1961-1964 for covert grants to exposed AAI (1) (YQFLUENT/QRFLUENT) and IDF (88) (QRBEND/UOALIBI). Reimbursed by Patman-exposed Edsel and Beacon.

7. [Olin Foundation, Spencer T. and Ann W. - Alton, Illinois (117)]

CCS-recruited legitimate foundation (LPCORSET/6). Used 1958-1966 for covert grants to exposed RFEF (TPTONIC) and IDF (88) (QRBEND/UOALIBI) and the unexposed WVF (TPGLARE). "Olin Foundation" appears as contributor as in AAI brochure but this was the John Olin Foundation (LPCORSET/13) which is not on the Ramparts list. Spencer T. and Ann W. Olin was reimbursed 1958-1963 by CCS instruments exposed by Patman in 1964.

8. [Robison Foundation, James E. - Manhattan, New York (128)]

CCS-recruited legitimate foundation (LPCORSET/43). Used 1961-1964 for covert grants to the exposed AAI (1) (YQFLUENT/QRFLUENT) and IDF (88) (QRBEND/UQALIBI). Listed as contributor in AAI (1) brochure.

9. [Ronthelym Charitable Trust - Boston, Massachusetts (129)]

CCS-recruited legitimate foundation (LPCORSET/54). Used 1964-1966 for covert grants to the exposed OPR (119) (LPCORSET/75/JMTUBA/IUEXTEND), AFFJ (17) (QKFEARFUL), IDF (88) (QRBEND/UOALIBI), PAF (122) (JMPOPLAR/10), FISEE (65) (QRSENSE/KMOCHROID), IIYA (79) (QRTROW), AMSAC (24) (TPFOUMART), and CCP (QKOPERA), and the unexposed Freedom Fund, Inc. (61) (AEMIRROR/WUHUSTLER).

---

14-00000

SENSITIVE
SECRET

10. [Sonnabend Foundation - Boston, Massachusetts (133)]

CCS-recruited legitimate foundation (LPCORSET/49). Used 1962-1966 for covert grants to the exposed AAI (1) (YQFLUENT/QRFLUENT), IDF (88) (QRBEND/UCALIBI), AFFJ (17) (QKFEARFUL) and CCF (QKOPERA) and to the unexposed Human Ecology Fund (HEF) (MKCOTTON).

11. [Sunnen Foundation - Maplewood, Missouri (135)]

CCS-recruited legitimate foundation (LPCORSET/29). Used 1961-1966 for covert grants to the exposed AAI (1) (YQFLUENT/QRFLUENT), CC (44) (JEFERVENT), IDF (88) (QRBEND/UOALIBI), CCF (QKOPERA), VF (DTLAMPREY) and LIBCD (FJGONDANG/ZRCANNY) and to the unexposed [SEI (132) (HTNAMABLE) and MSI (ZROCCUR/PASHELL).

12. [Homeland Foundation, Inc. - Manhattan, New York (74)]

CCS-recruited legitimate foundation (LPCORSET/35) used 1962-1966 exclusively for covert grants to FICD (64) (WSFLUFFER). Its ties to FICD were presumably learned from Illinois state records.

13. [Institute for International Order, Inc. - Manhattan, New York (78)]

CCS-recruited legitimate foundation (LPCORSET/5) used once in 1958 for a covert grant to CC (44) (JEFERVENT). The Institute made legitimate grants to WVF (TPGLARE), Overseas Education Fund of League of Women Voters (120), Institute of International Education (82), and Institute for Social Science Research (81).

14. [American Heritage Foundation - Manhattan, New York (18)]

Legitimate foundation recruited by former IO Division as a funding conduit and fund-raising organization for FEC (TPTONIC) and TAF (DTPILLAR), both mentioned during MHDOWEL. Used in early 1950's. General W. Bedell Smith (former DCI) became president of the Foundation in 1955.

---

14-00000

SENSITIVE
SECRET

15. [Council on Race and Caste in World Affairs, Inc. - Manhattan, New York (48)]

Proprietary funding conduit established by CA/B3 for covert funding of the exposed AMSAC (24) (TPFOUMART).

16. [Governmental Affairs Institute (GAI) - Washington, D.C. (68)]

Legitimate organization recruited by CCS for one-time witting use in 1957 to handle the U.S. travel arrangements for a visiting Indonesian delegation under an FE project. The travel was ostensibly sponsored by a law firm, Dillon & Dillon, which reimbursed the Institute. The Institute was subsequently used on an unwitting working-level basis as a conduit for funds attributed to the State Department to support a Soviet realities briefing center in New York City under SB Project AECOMITAS.

GAI is overtly tied to exposed organizations because Kirkpatrick of APSA (23) and OPR (119) (JMTUBA/IUEXTEND) and Gulick of IPA (84) were GAI board members. GAI has received legitimate grants from the Carnegie Endowment (35).

B.

Six Witting Organizations Used as Status and Funding
Cover For Singleton Agents Abroad

17. [Aid Refugee Chinese Intellectuals, Inc. (ARCI) - Manhattan, New York (5)]

Hong Kong branch of ARCI was used in the early 1950's by Hong Kong Station as a source of leads. ARCI was financed by State Department USEP. Through arrangements with USEP cover was provided by ARCI in Hong Kong for contract agent William H. POISSANT (P) (201-148106) 1958-1960 under Project STGATE. POISSANT (P) received a legitimate (unreimbursed) ARCI salary supplemented by black-bag. He was terminated in 1960.

Mr. Travis L. Fletcher (T), ARCI field representative in Hong Kong, was reportedly a witting U.S. Army intelligence source.

---

14-00000

SECRET

18. [American Korean Foundation, Inc. (AKF) - Manhattan, New York (21)]

Provided cover in Seoul, Korea, 1957-1958 for staff agent Ray H. PECKERMAN (P) under Project DNTANGE for spotting and assessing students. PECKERMAN's (P) salary was reimbursed by attorney James S. McGoldrick of Sheils and McGoldrick. CCS made the arrangements. PECKERMAN (P) resigned from CIA in 1958 to join the Foundation legitimately.

Dr. Howard A. Rusk, president of AKF was actively associated with FI/SIG Project UCOMET. He was also an unwitting consultant to WVF (TPGLARE) and collaborated in a project to bring Algerian war veterans to the U.S.

19. [American Political Science Association (APSA) - Washington, D.C. (23)]

Provided status cover (funding was by N-36, Academic Research Society) for Jonathan M. SMIGELOW (P), a contract employee, in Washington, D.C., April-November 1956, and in Bangkok, Thailand, November-December 1956. SMIGELOW (P) subsequently served with WVF (TPGLARE) in Paris 1957-1959, and with AFME (ZRTINDER) in New York, 1962-1967. He was terminated at the end of 1967.

APSA served as the ostensible sponsor of travel by Bek Bahadur Thapa (T) from California to D.C. for the July 1959 APSA annual meeting. Funding was via other channels.

APSA was used in October 1965 as the point of contact in D.C. for an individual whose travel to the U.S. was sponsored by TAF (DTPILLAR).

The Executive Director of APSA has long been Evron Kirkpatrick, who heads the exposed OPR (119) (JMTUBA/IUEXTEND). APSA received a legitimate 1966 grant from J. M. Kaplan Fund. (101).

---

14-00000

SENSITIVE
SECRET

-6-

20. [Carnegie Endowment for International Peace - Manhattan, New York (35)]

Used on a negotiated basis in 1956 to provide an ostensible grant to CAZAR for residence in Germany. Actual payments were by black-bag.

Made legitimate grants to Foreign Policy Association (59) and Governmental Affairs Institute (68).

21. [Middle East Institute (MEI) - Washington, D.C. (111)]

Provided CCS-negotiated cover for Geoffrey D. LEONDAR (P) in Baghdad, Iraq, 1959-1961, supplementing a cover grant from the Institute of Public Administration (IPA) (84) which was reimbursed by the exposed Marshall Foundation, in turn reimbursed by the Patman exposed Beacon Fund. LEONDAR (P) remained in Baghdad 1961-1963 under the cover of the subsequently exposed IPA (84) and the vulnerable notional Academic Research Society (N-36). He was in Beirut and the U.S. 1963-1967 under other notional covers. He was denounced as CIA by the UAR press in 1964. He converted to a staff employee under nominal Army civilian cover in June 1967 for Headquarters duty.

[MEI] provided cover in Cairo, 1960-1963, for Fred K. NELDIN (P) an Army employee under ACSI Project CRAZYBONES. [MEI] was reimbursed by CCS notional Academic Research Society (N-34).

22. [Phelps-Stokes Fund - Manhattan, New York (LPCORSET/23) (125)]

Provided cover for Bruce F. DAMASKUS (P), a former USNSA (WSCHILD) official, in Kenya and East Africa 1963-1965 under Project HBEPITOME. DAMASKUS (P) received two grants ($6,034 and $4,000) from Phelps-Stokes, which were reimbursed by the MEDOWEL exposed Tower Fund. DAMASKUS (P) resigned from the Agency in 1965.

[Phelps-Stokes] is listed as a cooperating group in an AAI (1) (QRFLUENT) publicity brochure.

---

14-00000

SENSITIVE
SECRET

-7-

C.

Six Project Organizations

23. [American Friends of Refugees, Inc. (AFR) - Manhattan, New York (13)]

Instrumentality of Project AEMANTILLA/CAMANTILLA which provided resettlement support of Defector Reception Center in Germany.

The P/A, Augustus G. Elmendorf (T), was also an officer of the Tolstoy Foundation (138) and International Research on Communist Techniques (95) (AESTRIKER). AFR was funded by the exposed San Jacinto Fund.

23a. [American Friends of Russian Freedom - Manhattan, New York (14)]

Former name of American Friends of Refugees, Inc. (23). (See above.)

24. [International Research on Communist Techniques (IRCT) - Manhattan, New York (95)]

Successor organization to Committee to Combat Soviet Kidnapping (CCSK) (AEPROCESS) which was established in 1954 at the initiative of Vladimir Rudin, head of the American branch of the Russian emigre organization NTS following the Khokhlov affair. NTS was and is subsidized under SB/CA Project AEGIDEON. CCSK changed its name to IRCT. The two organizations successively received sterile grants under Project AESTRIKER FY 1954-1956, at $14,585 a year. IRCT published a magazine, Behind the Soviet Lines, which was distributed in the U.S. and the U.K. to generate opposition to Soviet acts of violence.

In addition to Rudin, IRCT officers included Augustus G. Elmendorf (T) (who was also associated with AFR (12) Project CAMANTILLA) and the Tolstoy Foundation (138) and Eugene Lyons (T) former president of American Committee for Liberation of the Peoples of the USSR (Project QRACTIVE). Its attorney was John F. B. Mitchell, Jr. (T), former OGC staffer and currently the backstop for Victoria Projects, an entity under DO Project WUPSYCHE.

---

14-00000

SENSITIVE
SECRET

-8-

25. [Freedom Fund, Inc. - Manhattan, New York (61)]

Established under SB Project AEMIRROR and transferred around 1962 to DO as Project WUHUSTLER. CIA support terminated in 1967. Headed from its inception by Carl T. Chadsey, Jr. (T), it was used until 1961 as a funding channel for the NTS (Project AEGIDEON), as well as a propaganda outlet.

Freedom Fund, Inc. was covertly funded by the Branta (32) Renthelym (129), J. Frederick Brown (34), and Pappas Foundations. The latter two were exposed during MHDOWEL.

26. [International Research Institute, Inc. - Princeton, New Jersey (94)]

This is probably a new name for the International Institute for Social Research (IISR) in Princeton, New Jersey, which was cited in the New York Times on 26 October 1958 as receiving funds from the subsequently exposed Dearborn Foundation (49). Dearborn provided substantial covert funds, 1955-1962, to the Research Council, Inc. (as affiliate of the Princeton University Office of Public Opinion Research) for IISR under RQM/018 Project FOOLPROOF for in-depth opinion studies carried out by Lloyd Free (T) and Hadley Cantril (T) in selected countries throughout the world.

In 1961, through a clerical error, Dearborn (49) checks for FOOLPROOF and HTNAMABLE (see below) were reversed, making these organizations mutually witting.

27. [Scientific Engineering Institute, Inc. (SEI) - Cambridge, Massachusetts (132)]

DD/S&T proprietary Project HTNAMABLE. Ramparts has recently sought to interview some of the project principals. SEI has special sensitivity because of its prestigious and well-connected principals. It was covertly funded through the Colt (41), Magowan (108), Sunnen (135), W. Alton Jones (99), Dearborn (49), and Ridgefield Foundations. Its own 1966 990-A will show grants of $1,245,000 to Dearborn (49), Jones (99), Magowan (108), Sunnen (135), and Ridgefield Foundations.

---

14-00000

SENSITIVE

-9-

28. [People-to-People Health Foundation - Washington, D.C. (124)]

Also known publicly as Project HOPE, this organization is related to the former FI/OPS Project SGPANFISH. It was mentioned during MHDOWEL in the context of a legitimate grant by the exposed Hobby Foundation (71). PPHF was covertly funded by the exposed Dearborn (49) and Marshall Foundations. It also received legitimate grants from the Catherwood Foundation (36) and McGregor Fund (109).

D.

Three Organizations with Which There Have Been Some
Witting Contacts

29. [American Universities Field Staff, Inc. (AUFS) - Manhattan, New York (25)]

Kermit Roosevelt had contact in 1950 with AUFS Executive Director, Philip Talbot (T), on possible cover use of AUFS. In 1956, DO/Contacts reported a continuing relationship with AUFS for exchange of information. There apparently was some covert exploitation until Book Dispatch No. 5167 of 4 October 1965 prohibited further use. Henry M. Wriston (T), President of AUFS and of Brown University was contacted in 1952 on use of a separate Brown University facility for agent cover.

30. [International Rescue Committee, Inc. (IRC) - Manhattan, New York (93)]

Under Project QKGAUNT, $2,500 was furnished IRC in 1950-1951 to obtain biographic data on defectors. In December 1962, IRC Chairman Leo Cherne offered cover and FI use of IRC to Emmons Brown, DC/CA. C/EE declined the offer, indicating there already were useful contacts.

IRC received legitimate grants from J. Frederick Brown Foundation (34) and J. M. Kaplan Fund (101).

31. [Iran Foundation (IF) - Manhattan, New York (98)]

Under NE Project BGBERLED, three officers of the Foundation were cleared and apparently contacted by staff agent

---

14-00000

SENSITIVE
SECRET

-10-

Donald Wilbur in 1954-1956 for planned cover use of IF in placing a physician in Iran under medical cover. The proposal aborted when the agent prospect resigned in 1956.

E.

Eleven Unwitting Organizations Which were Funded by
or Collaborated with Project Organizations

32. [American Student Aid Fund, Inc. - Manhattan, New York (4)]

Received a cover grant from Farfield Foundation (56) (Project QKOPERA) in 1966.

33. [Association for International Development (AID) - Paterson, New Jersey (27)]

May have received funds from FYSA (SGGUESSER). Thomas P. Melady, Vice Chairman of African Service Institute (YQZEUS) was on AID board.

34. [Commission for International Development - Manhattan, New York (42)]

A proprietary funded and controlled through FYSA (SGGUESSER) 1961-1966.

35. [Experiment in International Living, Inc. - Putney, Vermont (55)]

Received cover grants from FYSA (SGGUESSER), 1955-1966. Listed as a cooperating group in AAI (1) (QRFLUENT) brochure.

36. [International Center for Social Research, Inc. - Manhattan, New York (27)]

Formed by FEC (TPTONIC) and operated by IDF (88) (QRBEND) until 1965.

---

14-00000

-11-

37. [International Peasant Union - Washington, D.C. (92)]

Supported by FEC (Project TPTONIC) for fifteen years.

38. [Kossuth Foundation, Inc. - Manhattan, New York (102)]

Supported successively by FEC (TPTONIC) and IDF (88) (QRBEND) for many years.

39. [American Council for Emigres in the Professions, Inc. - Manhattan, New York (9)]

Provided useful employment leads to FEC (TPTONIC) and may have received FEC funds in early 1950's.

40. [Overseas Education Fund of the League of Women Voters - Washington, D.C. (120)]

Cooperated with the Interchange Foundation headed by Anna Lord Strauss and Mrs. Harvey Picker of CC (44) (Project JEFERVENT) in what proved an abortive effort under a joint CA-SR project to sponsor the U.S. visit of a group of prominent Soviet women. Interchange Foundation received $3,579 from the Independence Foundation (75) for its share. The funds were redirected to a feasibility survey on establishing an international women's organization.

41. [American Friends of Viet Nam, Inc. (AFVN) - Manhattan, New York (15)]

Under Project TUSPUN a $5,000 grant was made to AFVN in 1958 by the Patman-exposed Michigan Fund to defray the costs of a trip to Viet Nam by Lt. Gen. John W. O'Daniel (Retired), President of AFVN. Allegedly, neither Gen. O'Daniel nor AFVN was aware of CIA sponsorship.

42. [United States - South Africa Leadership Exchange Program, Inc. (US-SALEP) - Philadelphia, Pennsylvania (139)]

Before December 1960, US-SALEP operated as a program of AAI (1) (YQFLUENT).

---

14-00000

NOTE:

The numbers in parentheses following listed or named organizations in Annexes A through E are the item numbers of organizations included in the 5 April 1968 Ramparts list (Annex F).

---

14-00000

NOTE:

The numbers in parentheses following listed or named organizations in Annexes A through E are the item numbers of organizations included in the 5 April 1968 Ramparts list (Annex F).

---

14-00000

SENSITIVE
SECRET

ANNEX C

FORTY-FIVE TERMINATED COVERT FUNDING CONDUITS AND PROJECT
ORGANIZATIONS ON 5 April 1968 RAMPARTS LIST THAT WERE
NAMED IN PRESS DURING [MHDOWEL]

A.

Eighteen CCS Multipurpose Funding Conduits
(Legitimate and Proprietary)

1. [Anderson Foundation, M.D. -