204-10418-10230

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY PER TOTAL COPIES RUN BY
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIB

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED BY AT

ACTION UNIT ACTION # PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

T 325447 E1A549 PAGE 01 IN 459495
TOR: 291001Z NOV 77 HAGU 33877
SECRET 090945Z NOV 77 STAFF
CITE THE HAGUE 33077
TO: DIRECTOR,
WNINTEL RYBAT REAM SYMPATHIZER MHCOLOR
REF: ONHA-40410, 4 MAY 1977

1. SENSITIVE SYMPATHIZER SOURCE INDICATES THAT ON 3 OCTOBER WILLEM OLTMANS MADE APPOINTMENT TO MEET WITH CUBAN AMBASSADOR, THE HAGUE. OLTMANS STATED HE GOING "TO AMERICA ON 28TH" AND THAT HE "IS INDEED PREPARED TO GO AT THE BEGINNING OF NOVEMBER AS ARRANGED".

2. DURING DISCUSSION, OLTMANS SAID HE ALSO HAD VISIT SCHEDULED WITH RUSSIAN AMBASSADOR ROMANOV FOR 3 OCTOBER AND WANTED TO COMBINE TWO VISITS FOR SAME DAY. OLTMANS WAS TOLD AN ATTEMPT BY CUBAN AMBASSADOR TO SCHEDULE MEET WITH HIM DURING WEEK 25 SEPTEMBER HAD BEEN UNSUCCESSFUL BECAUSE OLTMANS COULD NOT BE REACHED. OLTMANS STATED HE HAD BEEN IN SOVIET UNION THEN.

3. ABOVE EVIDENCE OF OLTMAN'S CONTINUING CLOSE CONTACT WITH CUBAN AND SOVIET DIPLOMATS AND HIS RECENT TRAVEL TO THE USSR AND APPARENT CURRENT TRAVEL TO CUBA

SECRET

--- Page 2 ---

13-00000

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY PER TOTAL COPIES RUN BY
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIB

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED BY AT

ACTION UNIT ACTION # PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

T 325447 E1A549 PAGE 02 IN 459495
TOR: 291001Z NOV 77 HAGU 33077

IS OF INTEREST IN VIEW HIS NOTORIOUS ROLE AT THE TIME OF THE DEATH OF GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILD. LATTER WAS OF INTEREST BOTH TO SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE AND HOUSE ASSASSINATIONS SUBCOMMITTEE. IF HOS DEEMS IT APPROPRIATE, NO STATION OBJECTION TO CONVEYING ABOVE, WITH ADEQUATE SOURCE PROTECTION, TO PROPER CONGRESSIONAL AUTHORITIES.

4. FILE: 221-155221, E2, IMPDET.

C/S SUGGESTS ADDI DISSEM TO
SECRET
