RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

28 January 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD
SUBJECT: Cuba

The Executive Committee met on Friday, January 25th, and approved the new policy as outlined by the Coordinator.

Decisions bearing on covert operations were reached as follows:

1. The Special Group will have the responsibility of continuing review of the program for infiltration of covert intelligence agents. Progress will be regularly checked with the Group.

Higher authority made a particular point of saying that, although the objective of "intensified covert collection" is approved, nonetheless, CIA should not feel it is under pressure to "get good men killed" in the process. In other words, the advantages to be gained from intensified collection must be continually weighed against the risks. This will be done by the Special Group.

2. The Attorney General expressed great interest in the extent to which key members of the Brigade will be brought into planning and current operations. He thought that they should be thoroughly consulted on plans for intelligence teams and he indicated that he will personally keep an eye on progress in this regard.

3. The use of propaganda balloons was disapproved at this time. It apparently was not clear as to exactly how far CIA should go in maintaining its current capability for launching balloons.

At Mr. Bundy's suggestion I had a long talk with Cottrell on Saturday, the 26th. We discussed in particular the method of operation with the Brigade. I pointed out some of the security aspects that would have to be watched, but expressed the opinion that a workable method of operation could be devised so that the Brigade leaders could provide motivation and could feel a sense of participation, without having to bring them so closely into the details of target areas, dispatch, commo, etc., as to constitute a security hazard.

I cited the Agency's experience with the NTS as a possible guideline in this regard. We agreed that after Mr. FitzGerald returns from Panama, about the first of February, the three of us should discuss this matter further.

TOP SECRET

---

SECRET
EYES ONLY

8 February 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD
SUBJECT: Minutes of Meeting of the Special Group, 8 February 1963
PRESENT: Mr. Bundy, Mr. Gilpatric, Mr. McCone, Mr. Hilsman, and Mr. FitzGerald

1. Agent Operations in Cuba

Mr. FitzGerald discussed with the Group the CIA paper of 6 February which recommends a total of five maritime infiltration/exfiltration operations during the next thirty days.

He emphasized that these black operations are entirely of an intelligence nature and that they should be viewed only as a supplement to intelligence coverage accomplished by other means. In the latter connection, the point was made that information obtained by agents of this type can contribute to the targeting of aerial reconnaissance sorties and can assist in making the process of photo interpretation more meaningful.

Mr. FitzGerald also emphasized that the teams now proposed are comprised of only one to three agents. He noted that the agents available are particularly well motivated, and that those whose primary motivation was toward action rather than intelligence have been weeded out.

The consensus of the Group was that while agent operations of this type cannot be considered as a primary or major source of intelligence, nonetheless this type of operation is consistent with U.S. objectives in the Cuba situation and that approval of these five should be recommended.

(These missions were approved by higher authority, 9 February 1963)

2. Subsidy to Venezuelan Newspaper

Mr. McCone reported on financial arrangements which have been made in connection with subsidy of the Venezuelan newspaper, which

SECRET
EYES ONLY

---

SECRET
EYES ONLY

-2-

was approved at the meeting of 31 January 1963. He said that Agency funds on deposit with the Morgan Guaranty, which will serve as collateral against the bank's loan to the new entrepreneur of this newspaper, would draw interest at 4%, while the purchaser will pay the commercial rate of 6%. The Chairman expressed satisfaction with this arrangement.

Thomas A. Parrott
Distribution
Mr. Johnson
Mr. Gilpatric
Mr. McCone

SECRET
EYES ONLY

---

SECRET
EYES ONLY

28 February 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Minutes of Meeting of the Special Group, 28 February 1963
PRESENT: Mr. Bundy, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Gilpatric, and Mr. McCone

Colonel Steakley was present for Items 1-3

1. Reconnaissance - DOD Monthly Forecast

The Group had no objection to the BOW TIE missions as planned. Mr. McCone alluded, however, to the unexplained military activity that is going on in eastern China, and asked about the capability of BOW TIE to check on this. It was pointed out that the BOW TIE program consists of comparatively shallow penetration which would probably not reach the kind of military target Mr. McCone had in mind.

Accordingly, Colonel Steakley was asked to confer with COMOR to find out whether requirements exist for deeper penetration in the area, and if so to bring in an appropriate proposal to the Special Group.

In connection with project AMOS, Mr. Johnson read a message from Lord Home to the Secretary of State. Home said that while the RAF and the Air Ministry will be glad to have the advantage of the intelligence resulting from the mission, nonetheless this represents a departure from the previous pattern of flights in the area. Additionally, the flight will, according to Home, go closer to the coast than the RAF is allowed to go. He was willing to agree to the mission, provided it was not viewed as establishing a precedent, and on the stipulation that Secretary Rusk personally accepts the risk entailed. Mr. Johnson said that Secretary Rusk is willing to accept this risk.

The Group approved AMOS, subject to check by Mr. Bundy with higher authority, and on the understanding that the Group will have a chance to take a last look at it shortly before the scheduled date of 19 March. Colonel Steakley was also asked to report to the Group on the results of the mission. (This mission was later approved by higher authority.)

In this connection, Mr. McCone commented on the great importance of obtaining intelligence on the Soviet low-level SA-3 system. The Group agreed that this is a high-priority requirement, in order to

SECRET
EYES ONLY

---

SECRET
EYES ONLY

-2-

provide a basis for estimating accurately the chances for successful low-level penetration of the USSR. Mr. McCone will arrange to have a USIB paper prepared on this subject.

The Group noted the DESOTO destroyer voyage, which will now include a courtesy call at Djakarta.

Colonel Steakley told the Group that CINCLANT has tried out the MELON PATCH photography missions, operating under the ten mile restriction which was laid on by the Special Group at its meeting of 31 January. It is now apparent to CINCLANT that adequate photography of the desired areas cannot be obtained at that distance. The Group agreed that the ten mile restriction should remain in force. In coming to this conclusion they made the point that in case of real need for this type of coastal intelligence, there would be adequate time to obtain it after an emergency actually was in effect; and further, any such information collected now would have to be up-dated before operations could be mounted based on it.

The revised RED DOG missions, to be flown in C-47's, and the proposal to fly some BRASS KNOB missions from the Canal Zone, were approved.

Colonel Steakley was asked to give the Group a report on the results obtained from the last mission into the Sea of Okhotsk.

Colonel Steakley told the Group that the JCS will make no recommendation on low-level coverage of Laos (ABLE MABEL) until after the results of the Agency effort explained below.

The Group made a point of saying that although the time is not now propitious for covering the COMOR priority targets in Cuba with low-level flights, it may well prove desirable to do this on fairly short notice. Therefore this matter should be kept under constant review by operating elements.

2. Reconnaissance - CIA Monthly Forecast

Mr. McCone told the Group that the weather has suddenly opened up over North Vietnam and that the mission to cover that area, via Laos, which was approved by the Special Group on 17 January, will actually be launched tonight. He said that after this is completed the airplane will be ferried to Taiwan in accordance with the discussion at the meeting of the 25th of February, transiting Laos on the way. Mr. McCone also reported on the recent successful GROSBEAK mission.

SECRET
EYES ONLY

---

SECRET
EYES ONLY

-3-

3. Removal of Soviet Troops

Mr. McCone said that we still do not know very much about the removal of Soviet troops from Cuba. Mr. Bundy stated that the official government position is that available information is insufficient to justify any change in the estimated figures of Soviets on the island. He added that no change can be made in these figures, without specific approval by higher authority.

4. Testimony on Cuba

Mr. McCone commented on the difficulties encountered by officials who are required to testify before Congressional committees on the Cuban situation, in light of the propensity of these committees to question witnesses on statements made by other officials. Mr. Bundy recognized that this is a problem and said that in an attempt to alleviate it he has had several documents brought together. These include a compendium of the President's remarks on the subject; the DCI's report to the Killian Committee; a report by Assistant Secretary Martin; and most recently, the CIA-prepared paper on subversion in the hemisphere. He added that the basic responsibility for co-ordinating public statements rests with the Secretary of State.

5. Italy - Status Report on Election Operation

The Group noted that this project is progressing, but is still in its early stages.

6. Chile - Proposed Political Action

The Group approved the proposal dated 25 February, subject to approval by higher authority. (This was later granted.)

7. Agency Operations in Latin America

Mr. Gilpatric inquired as to the feasibility of mounting intelligence or other operations against selected military personnel in Latin America. Mr. McCone said that some of this is being done but that he will have it studied further.

8. Progress on Cuban Operations

Mr. McCone told the Group that none of the five agent operations approved by the Group on the 8th of February has been successful. He noted that there have been a number of aborts due to weather,

SECRET
EYES ONLY

---

SECRET
EYES ONLY

-4-

failure of equipment, and failure of rendezvous plans. He said that efforts are continuing to carry out these operations successfully, but indicated some unhappiness with the results to date and the prospects of success. He alluded particularly to the qualities of the agent personnel.

Thomas A. Parrott
Distribution
Mr. Johnson
Mr. Gilpatric
Mr. McCone

SECRET
EYES ONLY

---

EYES ONLY

14 March 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR MEMBERS OF THE SPECIAL GROUP
SUBJECT: Approval of Cuba Papers

All members of the Special Group have now approved the following memoranda from the Coordinator of Cuban Affairs:

a. "Covert Propaganda to Stimulate Passive Resistance and Low-Risk, Simple Sabotage," 8 March 1963.

b. "Proposed Infiltration/Exfiltration Operations in Cuba - 15 March 1963 to 15 April 1963," 11 March 1963.

Thomas A. Parrott
Distribution
Mr. Johnson
Mr. Gilpatric
Mr. McCone

EYES ONLY

---

26 March 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD
SUBJECT: Minutes of Meeting of the Special Group, 26 March 1963
PRESENT: Mr. Bundy, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Gilpatric, and Mr. McCone.

Dr. Scoville, Mr. McMillan, and Colonel Steakley were present for Items 1-5.

Mr. Lundahl was present for Item 1.

Mr. FitzGerald was present for Item 5.

1. Low-Level Reconnaissance, Cuba

In connection with the USIB recommendation for resumption of low-level coverage of Cuba, Mr. Lundahl showed the Group examples of the additional information that can be obtained from low-level photography as contrasted with high-level coverage. This had to do particularly with identification of materiel, spotting of personnel, etc.

Mr. McCone emphasized that low-level coverage would give us additional information on the numbers of Soviet troops and possibly on Soviet intentions, and similar subjects, but that it would not represent a qualitative shift in the body of intelligence available. It would not reveal anything that would be of major security interest to the U.S. and which could not be picked up by high-level coverage.

Mr. McCone also referred to the progress of certain negotiations which have been holding up active consideration of low-level photography. He said that there are differences of opinion among people closest to this situation as to what the effect of resumption of such photography actually might be on the negotiations.

Mr. Gilpatric said that Defense is not convinced of the urgency of this proposition and would not favor it at this time, unless others feel that there is an overriding political reason for undertaking the project. He said that he would prefer to see this capability reserved for identifying the type of threat that we might otherwise not be aware of, or used at a time when there was some political advantage to be gained by low-level flights.

SECRET
EYES ONLY
See special minutes
for additional item

---

SECRET

Mr. Johnson said that the Secretary of State does not believe that there is any foreign policy reason for mounting the operation at this time, and in fact the Secretary and other high officials in the Department feel that from a policy point of view it would be inadvisable now.

The Group then agreed that the resumption of low-level coverage would not be recommended at this time, but that it would be kept under weekly review.

2. Reconnaissance, Indonesia

The Group noted the intelligence justification for this proposal and the political objections to it, and the Chairman agreed to discuss it with higher authority as an example of a situation where clear-cut differences of interest exist. He said that if there was any doubt from that quarter he would have all the principals participate in further discussion with higher authority. (The proposal was later disapproved by higher authority.)

3. Peripheral Reconnaissance Operations

a. Colonel Steakley gave the following brief reports on a number of peripheral missions:

(1) The ELINT coverage of the Sea of Okhotsk produced good results. He said that this area is now so well covered with radars that consideration should probably be given as to whether the rules requiring an abort in case of an AI lock-on should be relaxed.

(2) The AMOS mission, directed against SA-3's in the Baltic, did not result in any ELINT take from the radars associated with the SA-3's. He said that some question now arises as to whether these weapons are in fact SA-3's or perhaps a later generation of the SA-2.

(3) A DESOTO destroyer mission off the Soviet Maritime Provinces resulted in Soviet instructions to shut down their radars when the ship approached.

b. The Group approved four missions (UNA, DANIEL, FLOYD and GEORGE) using new ASD-1 equipment. This includes two in the Baltic area, one in the Black Sea, and one flying from England to the Black Sea.

SECRET

---

EYES ONLY

4. ELINT Balloons

Dr. Scoville gave the Group details of the operation in the Sea of Japan, employing balloons against TALL KING radars. He said that the results indicate that perhaps these radars are not as efficient as we had thought, but that further analysis is proceeding.

5. Covert Operations, Cuba

a. Procedures

Noting that the shipping sabotage paper of 19 March had not been considered by the Cottrell committee as a body, the Special Group asked that such proposals be considered in that way before submission to the Special Group. In passing the recommendations to the Special Group it should be indicated what the position of the various Cottrell members was, just as is done in the case of political projects coordinated with State and the ambassador. Each member of the Cottrell committee would see to it that his own agency staffed the paper in the normal way for submission to the Special Group.

b. Sabotage of Shipping

The substance of the 19 March paper was then considered. Mr. McCone raised a question as to exactly what the U.S. objective now is in this and related fields, and questioned in addition whether we may be trying to manage exile groups too closely.

There was some discussion as to the actual value of carrying out the proposed sabotage, that is whether enough damage could be done to hurt the Castro regime seriously. The consensus of the Group seemed to be that activity of this kind should not be undertaken if it could be expected to yield only small gains, but that if its effect would be really significant then that would be a different matter.

Considerable doubt was expressed about the proposal for sinking and setting fire to ships. None of the members felt that there was any particular objection to the use of abrasives or other damaging materials.

The proposal was then remanded for group consideration by the Cottrell committee. This committee is asked to look at the proposal in relation to everything else that is going on or is under serious consideration, in order to assess its true potentiality.

Mr. FitzGerald was authorized to modify the proposal to the extent

EYES

---

of considering possible unilateral action as opposed to using an exile group as a cutout. Mr. Bundy will explore exactly what the feeling of higher authority is with respect to relations with exile groups.

c. Additional Programs

Mr. Johnson mentioned the activities of the NTS, which has been broadcasting in Russian to the Soviet troops over Radio Caribe in the Dominican Republic. Mr. FitzGerald agreed to add this to the possibilities listed under radio broadcasting.

Mr. Johnson questioned the extent to which proposition b., involving inciting Cubans to commit aggressive acts against Soviet personnel, is in accord with current objectives.

On the matter of propaganda balloons, most members of the Group felt that these might be useful in connection with the particular target mentioned - the May Day concentration which is expected in Havana. Mr. Johnson had some reservations which he wanted to check out further in the Department. It was agreed that should State take a favorable view, then the matter would be presented to higher authority.

As to the request for Defense training facilities, Mr. Gilpatric asked that Mr. FitzGerald discuss the needs with Secretary Vance. Mr. FitzGerald said that the principal requirement which cannot be met in CIA facilities is adequate space for weapons training. Members of the Group recalled that the objection to the use of Defense facilities at the time it was presented during the MONGOOSE period, was that this would make it difficult, if not impossible, to deny official U.S. involvement. Mr. Bundy said that he saw no objection if the purpose was to train Cubans for eventual open hostilities, but thought that in this case the objective might be better achieved by having them undergo regular U.S. Army training. The other members agreed.

Thomas A. Parrott
Distribution
Mr. Johnson
Mr. Gilpatric
Mr. McCone

---

TOP SECRET

Handle Via Indicated Controls

WARNING

This document contains information affecting the national security of the United States within the meaning of the espionage laws U. S. Code Title 18, Sections 793 and 794. The law prohibits its transmission or the revelation of its contents in any manner to an unauthorized person, as well as its use in any manner prejudicial to the safety or interest of the United States or for the benefit of any foreign government to the detriment of the United States. It is to be seen only by U. S. personnel especially indoctrinated and authorized to receive information in the designated control channels. Its security must be maintained in accordance with regulations pertaining to the designated controls.

This document contains information referring to Projects:

CORONA
IDEALIST

TOP SECRET

---

SECRET

4 April 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD
SUBJECT: Minutes of Meeting of the Special Group, 4 April 1963
PRESENT: Mr. Bundy, Mr. Gilpatric, Mr. McCone, Mr. Hughes

Dr. Scoville and Colonel Steakley were present for Items 1 and 2.

Commander Yates was present for Item 1.

1. DOD Peripheral Reconnaissance

The DOD monthly forecast of peripheral reconnaissance activities was noted. Special note was taken of mission ULCER GULCH, which all members approved. Consideration of YANKEE PASHA was deferred for at least a week because of certain points raised by the Secretary of State. Mr. Bundy said that he himself would normally have no objection to this operation but that conditions at the moment make it inadvisable to go ahead at this precise time.

Colonel Steakley was asked to brief the Group on the special navigational safeguards which would be used in the YANKEE PASHA operation, at a later meeting when Mr. Johnson could be present.

Commander Yates briefed the Group on certain submarine operations. Mr. Gilpatric undertook to assure himself that adequate procedures exist for notifying members of the Special Group and other key officials in the event of an untoward incident.

2. Reconnaissance Missions, Far East

Mr. McCone briefed the Group on the results of two recent missions. He pointed out that there are now no authorizations outstanding for high-performance reconnaissance in the Far East.

The recommendations in the NRO paper for the Special Group, dated 4 April, were approved with the exception of 7. b (Laos), which was deferred for later consideration. Mr. McCone agreed to mention these approvals to higher authority, but it was felt that no further formal approval was required.

---

SECRET
EYES ONLY

-2-

All members of the Group expressed their interest in getting on with plans for resuming FALCON missions. It was noted that one of the principal problems in this area is the question of a base. It was agreed that we should probably approach this from the point of view of obtaining a standby agreement with the Indian Government to permit staging in and out of that country. Dr. Scoville said that a message had gone out to the field on this point last night. The Chairman asked that word be sent to the Ambassador that high-level interest in this proposition does exist in Washington.

3. Status Report on Italian Elections

CIA's paper of 1 April was noted.

4. Low-Level Reconnaissance, Cuba

The Group took no action on this subject.

5. Covert Subsidy for Kong Le

At Mr. Hughes' suggestion, it was agreed that CIA should look into the possibilities of a covert payment to Kong Le.

6. Cuban Operations

The Group recommended approval of the following papers from the Coordinator of Cuban Affairs:

a. Sabotage of Shipping, 19 March, as amended by a memorandum from the Deputy Coordinator, 2 April 1963.

b. Russian Language Broadcasts, 2 April 1963.

c. Propaganda Inciting Cubans within Cuba to Attack Soviet Troops, 2 April 1963.

Mr. Bundy and Mr. FitzGerald will obtain final approval from higher authority.

Thomas A. Parrott
Distribution
Mr. Johnson
Mr. Gilpatric
Mr. McCone

EYES ONLY

---

SECRET
EYES ONLY

9 April 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR MEMBERS OF THE SPECIAL GROUP
SUBJECT: Status of Approvals for Covert Actions, Cuba

1. Propaganda Inciting Cubans to Commit Acts Against Soviet Troops

Approved by higher authority, on the understanding that the propaganda will be non-attributable to the United States.

2. Sabotage of Cuban-Owned Shipping

This was approved by higher authority. It was noted that the suggestion for external explosive charges had been deleted from the proposal approved by the Special Group last week. (This will be considered along with other suggestions in an over-all sabotage paper, in accordance with decisions reached at the special meeting of 3 April.)

3. Soviet Language Broadcasts

The Radio Liberty proposition has been approved, with the understanding that there will be no "opening fanfare" in connection with the inauguration of the program; if a ceremony is unavoidable it must be played in a low key. The proposal for a Unidad Revolucionaria program is disapproved. The suggestion for intrusion on Radio Moscow broadcasts is disapproved.

4. Leaflet Balloons

This proposal has been disapproved by higher authority.

Thomas A. Parrott
Distribution
Mr. Johnson
Mr. Gilpatric
Mr. McCone

SECRET
EYES ONLY

---

SECRET
EYES ONLY

11 April 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD
SUBJECT: Minutes of Meeting of the Special Group, 11 April 1963
PRESENT: Mr. Bundy, Mr. Johnson, Mr. McCone

Dr. Scoville, Colonel Ledford and Colonel Steakley were present for Items 1 - 3.

Mr. FitzGerald was present for Item 4.

1. Reconnaissance, Northern Laos

It was agreed that the proposal for this coverage, which was contained in the NRO paper of 4 April and which was deferred last week, should be approved.

Mr. McCone mentioned the difficulties which have arisen with Sarit, noting particularly that he is unwilling to give permission for the renewed use of Takhli until certain Thai officials return to Bangkok from Paris, which will be around the 20th of this month. Mr. McCone mentioned the possibility of basing the aircraft in the Philippines or Taiwan, if the Takhli possibility should fall through completely.

The DCI said that if it proves impossible to mount missions designed to cover the Sino-Indian border, then three will be required for Laos and North Vietnam. If on the other hand the Sino-Indian missions are run, then only two additional ones would be required to cover Laos and North Vietnam, since some of the area could be covered in the process of the Sino-Indian coverage.

Mr. Bundy will clear these proposals with higher authority.

2. Coverage of Sino-Indian Border Area

Dr. Scoville reported on the difficulties encountered in obtaining Indian approval for staging aircraft through that country, stressing the fact that the chief of the intelligence service will not be available in India until the 16th of this month, and no decision can be expected before then. He said that the time before the onset of the monsoon season is getting short. Dr. Scoville said that efforts are continuing to get staging approval from the Indians, as well as approval from the Thais to base in Takhli.

SECRET
EYES ONLY

---

SECRET
EYES ONLY

-2-

3. Inadvertent Overflights by Reconnaissance Aircraft

Colonel Steakley distributed a memorandum listing the four inadvertent overflights of Soviet territory by U.S. reconnaissance aircraft, since January 1961.

He commented that in previous years the rate of such incidents was considerably higher. Mr. Bundy asked him to provide for the Group in the next week or so a recapitulation of such incidents, going back to approximately 1949.

Colonel Steakley said that both CINCPAC and the Joint Reconnaissance Group believe that the incident of 10 April, when an ELINT aircraft flew over one of the Kuriles, appears to represent a violation of established procedures and instructions. CINCPAC has asked for a full report.

Mr. McCone questioned the efficacy of the system of advising Special Group members of such incidents. Colonel Steakley said that a procedure has been specified and he undertook to provide a copy to Mr. Parrott for the information of the Group. He said that he would take special measures to make sure that these instructions are followed.

4. Cuban Operations

Mr. FitzGerald expanded orally on the paper of 9 April, giving a summary of the recent results in the agent infiltration program, and outlining proposals in this field for the next month. The Group approved this projection. In response to a question about the status of Manolo Ray's people, Mr. FitzGerald said that CIA was in touch with him from time to time, and that any plan he has to offer for activity against Cuba will be sympathetically received, but that he has not to date come up with any such proposal.

The comments from the Coordinator of Cuban Affairs, dated 11 April, on the three papers being considered at today's meeting were noted. The Group requested that these comments be withdrawn and destroyed for security reasons. With specific reference to the comment that a proposed sabotage action should not be carried out on the target date of the 20th or 21st of April, Mr. FitzGerald pointed out that this date had been set before the status of the Donovan negotiations was known. He said that of course no activity of this kind would be allowed to interfere with those negotiations at this stage.

There then ensued a lengthy discussion of the entire question of sabotage. The Group agreed that the papers before it were responsive to requests which had been levied on CIA to come up with general and specific proposals. On the other hand, all members of the Group recognized that a searching examination must be undertaken in the light

SECRET
EYES ONLY

---

SECRET
EYES ONLY

-3-

of all pertinent factors, to determine whether we wish to change the present policy. It was agreed that in order to provide a firm basis for judgment, we must get a clearer picture of capabilities, of the prospects of success, the extent of benefits to be gained from successful operations, the dangers of repercussions and of reprisals, etc., etc.

With respect to external operations to be mounted by exile groups, it was agreed that this sort of activity poses a real dilemma. Particularly in view of the recently-enunciated policy toward exile raids, it becomes increasingly difficult to disavow plausibly responsibility for such acts. The U.S. is thus placed in the position of either appearing to be ineffective in controlling the exiles or of bearing the onus of active involvement in the operations.

Mr. McCone expressed great skepticism about the desirability of proceeding with sabotage operations, to include training, until an over-all policy is made clear on steps to be taken to assure the removal of Soviet troops and on the problem of Castro. He also commented on the ineffectiveness of Cuban agents and the fact that they would undoubtedly talk if captured. Mr. FitzGerald confirmed the second point, but felt that these particular Cubans are perhaps more effective than the usual run.

It was decided that probably Friday, the 19th of April, a presentation should be made to higher authority at which time all responsible individuals should have an opportunity to express their views. A paper will be prepared, outlining: a proposed broad program for sabotage as well as examples of specific operations; a sense of the scale of activity which could reasonably be expected and the benefits from it; an estimate of what could be achieved by the use of internal assets; possible repercussions; and how such activity would fit into overall policy. CIA is to coordinate with State in the preparation of this paper.

5. Annexes to Internal Defense Plans

The Colombia annex was noted. In view of the fact that the basic IDP for Bolivia had earlier been remanded for revision by the Special Group (CI), the covert annex for that country was held over until the overt plan is considered by the CI Group.

6. North Vietnam Operations

The monthly report was noted and approved.

SECRET
EYES ONLY

---

SECRET
EYES ONLY

18 April 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD

SUBJECT: Minutes of Meeting of the Special Group, 18 April 1963

PRESENT: Mr. Bundy, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Gilpatric, and Mr. McCone

The Attorney General, General Taylor, Mr. Murrow, and Mr. FitzGerald were present for Item 1.

1. Cuban Operations

Mr. FitzGerald said that in view of the postponement of the meeting tentatively set for tomorrow with higher authority, the proposed sabotage actions for April will be cancelled and two caching operations, in Pinar del Rio and Matanzas, will be substituted. The Group approved this.

Mr. FitzGerald told the Group that in view of the negative decision on balloons, he was proposing to dismantle the capability, which is expensive to keep in being. He said that if it were desired to start the program up at any time after dismantling, it would take about three months. A number of members of the Group felt that in a real crisis balloons could be of considerable value. Accordingly, it was agreed that balloons and helium should be stockpiled, with the idea that if a situation should arise in which balloons would be useful, launching could be accomplished by a U.S. vessel, without worrying too much about attribution under those circumstances. In commenting on his opposition to the earlier proposition, Mr. Murrow said that he believes that balloons can be useful as a part of an integrated program.

The Group then turned to discussion of the papers from the Coordinator of Cuban Affairs dated April 16th, 17th, and 18th. It was noted that there had not been time for adequate staffing of these papers and that the principals had not been able to examine them carefully. In this connection, Mr. McCone said that he wanted the Office of National Estimates of CIA to review the papers, in light of their estimative content. It was thus agreed that the papers should be staffed and sharpened up for presentation at next week's meeting. Mr. Johnson suggested that a possible format might be to produce one paper which would be prefaced by the guidelines currently contained in the Coordinator's paper of April 18th. This would be followed by a summary of sabotage capabilities and the pros and cons of various types, and then recommendations.

SECRET
EYES ONLY

---

SECRET
EYES ONLY

-2-

Mr. Bundy and Mr. McCone expressed some doubts as to whether we are in a position to decide major problems of this type until we have a clearer picture of what the over-all policy toward Cuba is likely to be for the next six months to a year and a half. Mr. Bundy pointed out that the noise level which would be involved in many of these proposals would be considerably more than it has been to date, and he felt that we must decide whether we are willing to accept this. He added that he did not feel that such a development would necessarily be bad, but it would certainly be different from the low-level activities prevailing now. He was not sure whether, or to what extent, it would be possible to embark on the activities proposed in the Coordinator's papers, without a drastic change in U.S. policy. In this connection, Mr. Johnson said that he particularly likes the proposals for supporting internal resistance operations, since these will not generate a high noise level.

Mr. FitzGerald pointed out that the paper of April 17th, on a "Maximum Covert Action Program" consists basically of sabotage and harassment, plus support to Cuban exile groups and individuals who may be responsive to our advice but certainly not to our command. He mentioned some of the difficulties that would flow from supporting one group and not others. Mr. McCone said that if such groups become active, it will be obvious that they have U.S. support because it is well known that they do not have adequate assets now. He and Mr. Bundy agreed that, despite the fact that some Central American governments might be used as cutouts, the U.S. would be blamed for their activities and this must be clearly recognized before embarking on such a course. They felt additionally that we must be sure that such a program would contribute to over-all policy objectives.

Mr. McCone and Mr. FitzGerald referred to the CIA estimate that time is running in favor of Castro, and Mr. FitzGerald said that some of these activities are designed to slow down or possible stop the trend of events in his favor.

It was noted that the program for shipping sabotage, which has already been approved, is in process of possible implementation. It was agreed that this process should not be interrupted.

2. Reconnaissance of Laos

A COMOR paper, suggesting that certain targets in Southern Laos be included in the proposed missions for Northern Laos, was distributed and no objection was expressed to it. Mr. Bundy noted that he had not yet had an opportunity to clear the original proposal with higher authority.

SECRET
EYES ONLY

---

SECRET
EYES ONLY

25 April 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD
SUBJECT: Minutes of Meeting of the Special Group, 25 April 1963
PRESENT: Mr. Bundy, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Gilpatric, and Mr. McCone.

Dr. Scoville and Colonel Steakley were present for Items 1-4.

Mr. FitzGerald was present for Items 1-5.
Mr. Jorgensen was present for Item 3.

Mr. Tweedy was present for Item 6.

1. Forecast of NRO Activities for May

This forecast was noted.

2. Reconnaissance of Laos and Vietnam

Mr. McCone referred to a paper prepared by the JCS at the request of the Secretary of Defense, outlining a possible schedule of reconnaissance missions over Laos and Vietnam, which seemed to Mr. McCone to be unduly heavy. Mr. Gilpatric explained that the paper had been drawn up as an annex to a draft contingency plan, and was responsive to a direct request from the Secretary of Defense to indicate a sizeable capability for high-level reconnaissance for intelligence purposes. Mr. Gilpatric added that it is clearly understood that such activity would not represent a "show of force," and that the latter would require low-level activity. Mr. McCone agreed with this point and emphasized the unusual sensitivity of any high-level reconnaissance of denied areas.

Mr. Gilpatric assured the Group that these plans are all of a contingency nature and that at this point they are by no means approved.

3. Proposed "Feint" Operations, GROSBEAK

Mr. Jorgensen summarized the paper of the 22nd of April. He said that these proposals are frankly regarded as experimental.

SECRET
EYES ONLY

---

SECRET
EYES ONLY

-2-

Colonel Steakley said that from the JCS point of view, such feints might represent a tactical advantage, in that