14-00000

04-10172-10201 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Illegible)
AELADLE
DATE: 15 Nov 65

FROM: SR/CI/K - [Cu.l.s]
TO: Officer designation, room number; and (initials when forwarding)

| NO | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from who it is across column of each count) | OFFICER'S INITIALS | DATE FORWARDED |
|---|---|---|---|
| 1 |  | TRHale | 7/14/17/1 |
| 2 |  | RGRocca | 7/17 |
| 3 |  |  |  |
| 4 |  |  |  |
| 5 |  |  |  |
| 6 |  |  |  |
| 7 |  |  |  |
| 8 |  |  |  |
| 9 |  |  |  |
| 10 |  |  |  |
| 11 |  |  |  |
| 12 |  |  |  |
| 13 |  |  |  |
| 14 |  |  |  |
| 15 |  |  |  |

FORM 610

USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

For your retention.

201-99,788

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

SUBJECT: [AEBTORAGE No. ]
AELADLE
DOI: 1961 - 1963 or 1964

NOTE: [AEBTORAGE represents a collation of information provided by several reliable and sensitive sources, some of them documentary. [AEBTORAGE information is not to be released outside of the Clandestine Services Components of CIA unless written authorization has been granted by C/SR/CI. [AEBTORAGE information may be transmitted to CIA field stations only after it has been coordinated with C/SR/CI.

1.  Source transited Helsinki in May 1961, at which time he obtained a visa at the Soviet Embassy from one KLIMOV. Beginning shortly after Christmas 1961 and continuing on and off for the next three months, Source was interrogated by the KGB in Moscow about his contacts with the KGB Legal Residency in Helsinki. Source prepared a written report giving in detail the physical description of all KGB officers who had met him in Helsinki.

2.  In 1963 or 1964 Source was told by the KGB that it was unlikely he would ever be assigned to the United States as a Soviet who had defected in Helsinki could personally identify Source.

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - AELADLE
1 - DC/SR/CI
1 - SR/CI/I
1 - SR/CI/I
SR/CI/TI: [HIMason]: mjc

After further research & discussions, PROTECT the "AE "Digraph only

21 Apr 98
