14-00000
104-10216-10073

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION
S-E-C-R-E-T

10/10/1960

TO: Chief of Station, Quito
Chief of Base, Guayaquil

INFO: Chief, WH

SUBJECT: Report of PBPRIME Citizen on Connections with Ecuadorean Government

ACTION REQUIRED: Please comment on Subject and his statements

REFERENCES:

1. The following paragraphs are quoted from an ODENVY report resulting from an interview with Identity. The addressees are requested to comment on the Subject's statements and to send to Headquarters information concerning the Subject's activities in Ecuador bearing on his statements.

A. On August 29, 1960, Identity was interviewed by ODENVY at his request. Identity related that he had just returned from a trip to Ecuador where he had been offered a job to represent that country as an agent in PBPRIME and he was seriously considering this offer. While in Ecuador, he had conferred with four individuals who he believed would run the new government which was to be sworn into office on August 31, 1960. These persons were identified as follows: Jaime Nebot Velasco, Minister of Development; Pedro J. Menendez Gilbert, Mayor of Guayaquil, Ecuador; Luis Noboa, an Ecuadorean businessman; and Enrique Ponce Luque, a Senator and partner of Noboa.

B. According to Identity, the now president of Ecuador, Jose Maria Velasco Ibarra, has been elected to that office for the fourth time and is an aged person. The above-listed individuals will control and operate the Government of Ecuador with the approval of Ibarra. As a result of his conferring with the above persons, Identity expressed the belief that Nebot will be the strong man in the government. He described these individuals as patriotic with a sincere desire to better the plight of the common man in Ecuador. Identity stated that all of them are definitely pro-PBPRIME and Nebot said that all Identity has to do is tell him what PBPRIME

CONTINUED
UNDER SEPARATE COVER

Distribution:
2 - Quito
1 - Guayaquil

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: IBQW-2393
HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER: 01-41581

ORIGINATING OFFICER: HEMendenhall
DATE TYPED: 5 Oct 1960

COORDINATING OFFICER: ASWisniowski
DATE: 5 Oct 1960

RELEASING OFFICER: E. M. TERRELL

CROSS REFERENCE TO RI (Subject)

ROUTE:
INITIAL:
OFFICE: WH/1/E
OFFICE SYMBOL: RI/AN

OFFICE: WH/1/E
OFFICE SYMBOL: RI/FI

OFFICE SYMBOL: AC/WH/1
DATE: OCT 1960

FORM 5-60 53 USE PREVIOUS EDITION REPLACES FORM 6100 WHICH MAY BE USED

CLASSIFICATION: S-E-C-R-E-T

EXT: 3847

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: IBQW-2393

desires and the Ecuadorean Government will do its best to cooperate with PBPRIME.

C. Identity was also told that the Government of Ecuador has commenced negotiations with an electronics firm in Dallas, Texas, believed by Identity to be the Continental Electronics Company, for the construction of a 50,000 kilowatt radio station in Guayaquil. This station will be used to combat anti-government propaganda based into Ecuador from Cuba. Nebot felt that PBPRIME could make use of this radio station. Identity told Nebot that he believed this could be arranged.

D. It is the opinion of Identity that this is a golden opportunity for PBPRIME to commence cooperation with a new government in a pro-PBPRIME country. He stated that the Ecuadorean Government would be most willing for KUBARK to utilize the above radio station; however, it would necessitate KUBARK's paying half of the expenses for its construction. Identity was advised that the information he had given ODENVY would be furnished to KUBARK pursuant to his request. He desired to be contacted within a period of ten days if KUBARK is interested in the information he had to offer. No further action concerning this matter will be undertaken by ODENVY.

2. ODENVY has previously reported at length on the Identity, a public relations counsel. Identity registered as a purchasing agent for various bureaus of the Republic of Nicaragua on 15 April 1955; on 22 July 1958, he registered as an agent of the Israeli Military Industries, which was controlled by the government of Israel.

3. The Identity appears to be an international businessman with special interest in Latin American Countries. He has previously frequently contacted PBPRIME agencies on subjects he thought appropriate to bring to their attention. A cursory check of his 201 file revealed no derogatory information. Further information can be supplied if the field so requests.

END OF DISPATCH

FORM 10-57 53a
USE PREVIOUS EDITION
REPLACES FORMS 51-28, 51-284 AND 519

CLASSIFICATION: S-E-C-R-E-T
