2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UFGA-7171

DISPATCH

To: Chief, Task Force W
From: Chief of Station, JMWAVE
Subject: Operational/CYROSE/AMCUTLEF-1 Progress Report for November and December 1962.

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

Action Required: For your information.
Reference: UPCA-6637, dated 23 November 1962.

Developments:

1. AMCUTLER-1's efforts during the reporting period were directed toward: (a) supporting the AMFAUNA operation; and (b) developing new KUTUBE operations.

2. In support of the AMFAUNA operation, he has been investigating AMFAUNA-4, for which purpose he has interviewed seven Masons in Miami who presumably should have known AMFAUNA-4 but did not, and two individuals in New York who did know him. (See UFGA-7118.)

3. AMCUTLER-1 has also reported a potential courier channel to AMFAUNA-1, using:

Gonzalo ABELEM Martin
Brazilian citizen
Born ca. 1915
Residence: N.E. Biscayne Blvd, Miami, Fla.
Occupation: Employee of Brazilian Consulate

and his brother

Manuel ABELEM Martin
Brazilian citizen
Born ca. 1909
Residence: Havana, Cuba
Occupation: Officer of Brazilian Embassy Havana

Once a month a pouch passes between the Brazilian Consulate in Miami and the Embassy in Havana, and AMCUTLER-1 has made use of it to send letters for posting in Havana to AMCUTLER-2. The two ABELEM brothers are personal friends of AMCUTLER-1 and AMCUTLER-2, but AMCUTLER-1 does not believe that they would yet be willing to carry or send any obvious espionage material. He does believe that they would be willing to carry canned goods to AMCUTLER-2, and this is being explored, with the idea of concealing money, maps, etc. in the tin cans.

4. For the purpose of trying to develop new KUTUBE operations, AMCUTLER-1 has been following up leads given him by his case officer. He has interviewed

Carlos Manuel CACERES-Blay
Former manager Motel Las Cuevas, Trinidad
Residence: 1122 S.W. 16th Ave. Miami, Fla.

from whom he obtained intelligence reports; and

Evelien CRUZ
Born Candelaria, Cuba
Residence: A1545 S.W. 6th St., Apt. 4, Miami, Fla.

from whom he obtained operational information on the Esquivel Caves, Soroa Zone, termino municipal of Candelaria, Pinar del Rio. CRUZ passed AMCUTLER-1 to

Luis HERNANDEZ aka "El Terrible"
Residence: 1665 N.E. 24th St., Apt. 8, Miami, Fla.

who gave additional information on the caves which, he said, are the property of his brother-in-law

Dioninio SUGARTE

and

Anita PERRASTE Betancourt of Candelaria, Pinar del Rio, Cuba
who still lives in the area.

5. AMCUTLER-1 reported that his friend "Pepe" GONZALEZ whose brother-in-law now resident in Spain is a son of

Dr. Carlos PEDEMONTE
Head of Cartographic Office of INRA

has received word that PEDEMONTE is looking for a way to leave Cuba. AMCUTLER-1 is trying to develop additional information on PEDEMONTE's situation from GONZALEZ. Other than press clippings, the only JMWAVE trace on PEDEMONTE is contained in HKH-02664 of 15 April 1960.

6. On 22 December 1962 AMCUTLER-1 reported that he had been invited by one

"Chique" MONTES
Cuban citizen
Resident Puerto Rico

to join a maritime expedition aimed against tanker traffic on the south coast of Cuba, with the further objective of seizing a Cuban Frigate with the cooperation of its captain. Details were sent to Headquarters in WAVE-2749 of 22 December, in the hope that it might be possible to make a tentative identification of the naval officer involved.

7. On 25 December 1962 AMCUTLER-1 reported that he had been informed the day before by

Pedro Luis DIAZ Lanz

that two individuals named

Reinaldo LOPEZ Lima
Enrique CEIJAS

had just approached him with the offer to sell him some weapons allegedly belonging to KUBARK which were stored on an unidentified key and valued at several thousand dollars. LOPEZ and CEIJAS told DIAZ that an armed raid on the key would have to be simulated so that suspicion would not fall on them, and that the raid would have to be pulled off on either the night of 25 December or 31 December when one or the other of the men would be on guard duty at the key. DIAZ had turned down the offer. JMWAVE file checks showed that the two men were indeed of interest to KUBARK, and that AMTABBY Underwater Demolition Team was possibly involved. Appropriate defensive measures were immediately taken.

8. The following reports were disseminated during the period:

UFG-1955 "Reaction to Current Crisis within Cuba"
UFG-2098 "Possible Military Use of Caves near Trinidad, Las Villas"
UFG-2143 "Identification of Two Caves near Trinidad, Las Villas Which Could be Used for Military Purposes"
UFGT-2823 "Passenger Manifests for Flights to & From Cuba".

Costs:

9. The following expenses were incurred during the period on behalf of the operation:

Two months' salary $500.00
Use of POV $0.00
Meeting expenses $46.27
Total: $546.27

Future Plans

10. No change.

END OF DISPATCH
