14-00000

(104-10177-10220)

[2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: McLENDON, GORDON / 201-79764
INCLUSIVE DATES:
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:
DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE | DATE
RECEIVED | RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)
16 MAY 78 | | LESLIE WIELMAN
| | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
| | Leslie Wielman

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
When Filled In

6 Jan 1975
(date)

Review of 201 File on U.S. Citizen

In accordance with the DDO's notice of 9 December 1974,
I have reviewed the 201 file on McLENDON (surname)
(201 number indicated below), and have determined that it can
most accurately be categorized as indicated below:

[ ] should be closed.
[ ] witting collaborator. OI Code A1
[ ] potential witting collaborator, date opened.
OI Code A2.
[ ] former witting collaborator (relationship terminated).
OI Code A3.
[ ] potential witting collaborator never contacted (security
reasons, derogatory information). OI Code A4.
[ ] counterintelligence case (i.e., involving a foreign
intelligence or security service). OI Code A5.
[ ] all others. OI Code A6

Signed: Ann H. GIRARDI
(name) (title) IP/ANP (component)

This assignment of category has been entered into STAR.
Signed: (Initials) (date) 1975

This document is a permanent part of this file.

E2 IMPDET
CL BY- 054979
When Filled In
C-U-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

3 May 1972

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: John K. McLean

1. On 28 April the undersigned was introduced to Mr. John K.
McLean by Mr. Wallace Lampshire, a Staff officer. The purpose
of the meeting was to discuss Mr. McLean's connection with Mr.
Gordon Barton McLendon (201-79764) and Mr. McLendon's stated
desire to help his government.

2. Mr. McLean is a former staff officer (DDI/OCI) who
resigned to enter the field of finance. He has been a banker,
a stock broker (Sade & Co.) and currently is Vice-President
and Treasurer of International Ventures, Inc., 888 17th Street
N.W., Washington 20006, as well as Vice-President of Riviere
& Berens Securities Corp., stockbrokers located at 1832 M St.,
N.W., Washington, D.C. 20036.

3. Mr. McLendon was born in Paris, Texas 8 June 1921
and now lives in Dallas. According to Who's Who in the South
and Southwest, Mr. McLendon is the owner of a number of radio
stations and is listed as the president of numerous companies
in radio, TV, and motion picture theatre fields. Mr.
McLendon is reputedly a multi-millionaire.

4. Mr. McLean and Mr. McLendon have maintained a friend-
ship since their years at Yale. Mr. McLean recently visited
Mr. McLendon at his ranch some thirty miles from Dallas. During
this visit Mr. McLendon expressed his fears of the future of the
dollar and said that he has moved millions of his dollars to
Europe where the money has been put into Swiss and French francs,
plus German marks. Most of the money is apparently in savings
instruments of one kind or another plus a night club that Mr.
McLendon has bought in Stockholm. During these conversations,
Mr. McLendon wondered if these foreign operations might not be
of interest to the Government (read CIA as Mr. McLendon was
an ONI officer during WW II and is aware of Mr. McLean's former
employment with the Agency.) Mr. McLendon mentioned his night
club as a possibility, as it is frequented by persons of many
countries, including the USSR.

SECRET

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000

SECRET

5. Mr. McLean has business interests in Dallas and
said that he is willing to explore this possibility with
Mr. McLendon if we provide guidance.

6. Mr. McLean himself perhaps offers more potential
via International Ventures, Inc. Mr. McLean is seeking
venture capital opportunities abroad. For example, he
and a Mr. Lincoln Epworth in New York City are working
with a Japanese named Ikvo Kasai who is President of
Nichimen Co. of Tokyo, a firm seeking to export to the
States. Mr. McLean was frank to say that International
Ventures is more a dream than a reality in terms of busi-
ness but the concern is making progress. Mr. McLean offered
to be of any assistance.

Comment: I have sent for Mr. McLean's file and upon its
receipt I will seek a PCSA.

Frederick Larkin, Jr.
CCS/CFB
FL/ekw

SECRET

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000

SECRET

FROM: WILCOXEN ELI
BRANCH CCS/CFB EXT. 3543

NAME CHECK AND CONSOLIDATION REQUEST
19 April 1972

RID CONTROL NO.
21 KEY
1938
DATE
INITIALS
for
RID/INDEX
DT-S
124003
240/72
REQUESTER
R.O/FILES
DT-
GC 52
REQUESTER
RIC/ANALYSIS GT-7
GASO
RID/INDEX
DT-S
184003

SURNAME Mc. LENDON, Gordon Barton
SPELLING VARIATIONS TO BE CHECKED: MAC

AKA, ALIASES:

OTHER IDENTIFYING DATA (Occupation, CP membership, I. S.
affiliations, etc.)
See "Who's Who in the South and
Southwest", Eleventh Edition, P. 677

SEX | DATE OF BIRTH | PLACE OF BIRTH | CITIZENSHIP | RESIDENCE
M | 8 June 1921 | Paris, Texas | U.S.A. | 9300 Douglas Street, Dallas, Texas

RESULTS OF PID/INDEX CHECK
[ ] NO PERTINENT IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION
[ ] CARD REFERENCES ATTACHED

COMMENTS
night club

INSTRUCTIONS FOR REQUESTERS:

1. TO ORDER DOCUMENTS
REVIEW INDEX CARD REPRODUCTIONS.
DRAW GREEN DIAGONAL LINE ACROSS ITEMS YOU DO
NOT WANT.
FORWARD TO RID/FILES.

2. TO EDIT THE CARD REPRODUCTIONS
AFTER RECEIPT OF THE DOCUMENTS. EDIT THE CARD
REPRODUCTIONS ACCORDING TO CS1 70-19.
TO DESTROY CARDS: MARK THE CARD REPRODUCTION WITH
A GREEN D. AND CITE THE REASON.
TO MAKE CORRECTIONS/ADDITIONS: ENTER THE CHANGES
ON THE CARD REPRODUCTIONS IN GREEN INK.
FORWARD TO R.D/AN. VIA YOUR RECORDS OFFICER.

201 CONSOLIDATION (SEE.CS: 70-20)
IF SUBJECT HAS A 201 FILE. RETURN ONLY THIS
FORM TO RID/AN WITH REPRODUCTIONS OF INDEX
CARDS MARKED IN GREEN TO REFLECT THE
CONSOLIDATION ACTION TAKE.
WHEN SUBJECT HAS NO 201 FILE. BUT MEETS THE
REQUIREMENT FOR OPENING A 201 FILE, RETURN
THIS FORM TO RID/201 WITH:
A COMPLETED FORM 831
ALL PERTINENT DOCUMENTS, EXTRACTS, AND
PROPERLY EDITED INDEX CARD REPRODUCTIONS
FOR CONSOLIDATION OF THE FILE BYRD/201.

CHECKLIST OF OTHER INDICES: REQUESTER SHOULD ALSO CONSIDER TRACING THE FOLLOWING SOURCES WHICH ARE NOT CHECKED
BY RID/ INDEX (SEE NAME TRACE HANDBOOK).

SOURCE | DATE REQUESTED | DATE RECEIVED | SOURCE | DATE REQUESTED | DATE RECEIVED
[ ] DDS&R [ ] CENTRAL REFERENCE SERVICE
[ ] LIBRARY
[ ] BIOGRAPHICS [ ] TRAVEL (ZOM-IX-200.MC)
[ ] COMTN [ ] MPT c+ DEAREN FILE
[ ] APPLICANTS FILE [ ] OFFICE OF C
[ ] MEDICAL SERVICES [ ] DOMESTIC CONTACTS SERVICE

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000

PCLENDON, GORDON GARTON
SEX M DOB 08 JUN 21
USA TEXAS, PARIS
CIT USA
OCC PRES
REF
USA, TEXAS, DALLAS
MCLENDON BROADCAST SYSTEM.
201-079764*.
TYPE NAME T
OCC CODE BUSP.
OI CODE ?
4/25
CORR CARD
6605250198

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000

SECRET
(When Filled In)

BRIEF RECORD OF CASE ACTION
REMARKS

This MUST be the TOP, unserialized document
in
File Number 201-

MINUTE SHEET

--- Page 8 ---

14-00000

Memorandum For: DO/S&C (for Mr. Beers)

Reference: Request for traces and clearance
Project: WUENOTEE
Subject: See below

MAI: McLENDON, Gordon Barton
DOB: 8 June 1921, Paris, Texas
USA
RES: 9300 Douglas St., Dallas, Texas
OCC: McLendon Broadcast System.
ADD: 2104 Jacks St., Dallas, Texas

Date: 1 February 1966

Trace Results:
No record in addition to 201-79764 which is attached herewith on permanent
charge to DO/CO/Beers.
CI/CA file JC-9545 was reviewed and found to contain no information in
addition to that contained in Subject's dossier. You will note that a
request made by FE Division for a CSC on Subject was denied by the Office
of Security on 29 July 1952.

Areas Checked:
FJD X Area Division Central Cover Staff X Office of Security
OCR: Biographics Register Foreign Installations Branch Library
Other

Form 772 requesting PCSA/CSA was forwarded
to RID for classification into (Security) file.

Attachment: 201-79764
Distribution:
Orig. Addressee
XXX X/H

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000

SECRET

REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OR INVESTIGATIVE ACTION
(Always handcarry 1 copy of this form)
PLEASE COMPLETE EACH SECTION AND APPROPRIATE BLANK

[ ] CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION
[X] CHIEF, INVESTIGATION AND SUPPORT DIVISION, OFFICE OF SECURITY
[ ] CHIEF PERSONNEL SECURITY DIVISION, OFFICE OF SECURITY

DATE: 30 December 1965
FROM: DO/XO
PROJECT: WUENIPEE

SUBJECT: McLENDON, Gordon Barton
(True name)

CRYPTONYM, PSEUDONYM, AKA, ALIASES:

201 FILE NO.: SO FILE NO.:
TYPE ACTION REQUESTED
[ ] PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
[ ] OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
[ ] PROVISIONAL PROPRIETARY APPROVAL
[ ] PROPRIETARY APPROVAL
[X] PROVISIONAL COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL
[ ] COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL
CONTRACT TYPE A
SPECIFIC AREA OF USE: US
FULL DETAILS OF USE: COVERT NAME CHECK
SPECIAL IN (SO field investigation)
CONTRACT TYPE B

Subject will be contacted and assessed on a witting basis in support of WUENIPEE.
Subject is President of McLendon Corporation of Dallas, Texas and is also owner of
several radio stations. He was born in Paris, Texas on 8 June 1921. He resides at
9300 Douglas Street, Dallas, Texas and has a ranch in Denton, Texas. During World
War II, he served as a Japanese Language Officer in intelligence for the US Navy
from 1943-45. He is the author of "The Old Scotchman's Scrapbook".

INVESTIGATION AND COVER
A. U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATION? YES NO [X]
B. CIA INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATION? YES NO [X]
C. IS SUBJECT AWARE OF U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST IN HIM? NO RECORD
D. IS SUBJECT AWARE OF CIA INTEREST IN HIM? NO RECORD
E. INDICATE ANY LIMITATIONS ON COVERAGE IN THE INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.
F. SUGGEST "COVER PRETEXT" BE USED IN CONDUCTING PERSONAL INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.
G. DO YOU PLAN TO MAKE SUBJECT WITTING OF AGENCY OR GOVERNMENT INTEREST? NO RECORD
IF NO INVESTIGATION OUTSIDE CIA, EXPLAIN FULLY: NON-DEROGATORY INFO.

5. PRO AND GREEN LIST STATUS
PRO WILL BE FORWARDED.
PRO OR EQUIVALENT IN (2) COPIES ATTACHED
PRO OR EQUIVALENT IN COPY ATTACHED
GREEN LIST ATTACHED
NON-DEROGATORY ATTACHED
DEROGATORY ATTACHED

6. RI TRACES
WILL FORWARD
DIVISION TRACES
WILL FORWARD
FIELD TRACES.
WILL FORWARD

LIST SOURCES CHECKED
NOT INITIATED (Explanation)
SIGNATURE OF CASE OFFICER: Peter Bears
EXTENSION: 772 12:15
SIGNATURE OF BRANCH CHIEF: William A Royer

SECRET

--- Page 10 ---

14-00000

SECRET
(When Filled In)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT:
CROSS REFERRED TO: FILE JC-9545
RI FILE NO.
DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION:
DISPATCH DOC. SYMBOL NO.
DATE:
SOURCE:
DATE PROCESSED:
DISSEMINATION:

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION:
TRANSFEROLD TO:
REFILE NO:
PERTINENT INFORMATION:

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO. 201-79764

--- Page 11 ---

14-00000

24 May 1973

ATIN: FI
EL/C
Chief,

Disposition of Files

1. Forwarded herewith for your disposition are thirty-eight (38) files,
considered non-restricted by ME, for the following reason:

2. Subjects are no longer in use by this office.

Originated by: Ursa T. Shurp

SE: CAYIRE, Salvatore Bernard's file
Date of Birth: Oct 29, 1910; Place of Birth: N.Y.S.Y.

--- Page 12 ---

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED
CIA INTERNAL
USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional) McLENDON, Gordon B.

FROM: FE/111/PC

TO: (Office designation, room number, and building) | DATE | OFFICER'S INITIALS | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from show to him. Draw a line across columns after each comment)
1. | 1 DEC 73 |
2. | |
3. | |
4. | |
5. | |
6. | |
7. | |
8. | |
9. | |
10. | |
11. | |
12. | |
13. | |
14. | |
15. | |

SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL
CIA INTERNAL
USE ONLY
UNCLASSIFIED

--- Page 13 ---

14-00000

129 JUL 1952

Chief, Staff C
Attention: Staff C/PB
Chief, Special Security Division

McLendon, Gordon Barton

1. Reference is made to your request for a covert security
clearance for the Subject, who is the president of a company
which will provide accreditation in Japan to a contract agent of
this organization.

2. This is to advise that the covert security clearance,
as requested, is hereby denied.

FOR THE SECURITY OFFICER, CIA,
Robert H. Cunningham

--- Page 14 ---

14-00000

SECRET
Security Information

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, F&E
VIA: 11277
FROM: FE/III/PC

SUBJECT: Gordon Barton McLendon

1. It is requested that the case on Gordon Barton McLendon
be closed, since this office has no further interest in subject.

2. The request for covert security clearance on this McLendon
was submitted on 11 February 1952.

FE/III/PC/Cal

Dist: Addressee - 1
Orig. & 1 - 1
FE/III/PC - 1
RI - 3
LLOYD

--- Page 15 ---

14-00000

SECRET

MEMORANDUM TO: OD/CP/Sec 11 February 1952
FROM: FE/III/PC

SUBJECT: Gordon Barton McLendon

1. Covert Clearance, for use as outlined below, it is requested for Subject,
on whom available information is submitted separately.
[ ] Op. Clearance [X] Security Clearance [ ] Op. Support [ ] Sp. Inquiry

2. Use of Subject: (State in detail the scope and nature of activities to
be performed, their duration, the area involved, project involved, etc.)

Subject is the president of a company which will provide
accreditation in Japan to a contract agent of this organization.
It is not expected that subject will learn of the agent's connection
with this organization, however, clearance is requested to so
inform subject of the connection if the need may arise at a later date.
Subject will know nothing of operations conducted by this agent, only that
he is connected with CIA.

3. "Cover" story suggested for investigation: [ ] Governmental [X] Commercial
Details: General Credit Other

4. Limits, if any, to investigation: None

5. Is Subject aware that an investigation is in process: Yes [ ] No [X]
6. Is Subject aware of CIA interest? Yes [ ] No [X]
7. Has Subject been briefed on "cover" story? Yes [ ] No [X]
8. Has Subject established "cover" for investigation
with probable contacts? Yes [ ] No [X]

9. Is Prov. Operational Clearance necessary? Yes [ ] No [X]
10. Investigation to be: [ ] Routine [ ] Expedite
Must be completed by: 1 June 1952

REMARKS:

Case Officer: Cowell Christy
Security Officer
Branch Chief: James G. Kel'lo

--- Page 16 ---

SECRET

TO: ASST. DEPUTY (INSPECTION & SECURITY) Date:
FROM: OD/OPC (Security) J.G.:

SUBJECT:

1. Necessary covert investigation is requested on Subject on whom all available
background data is submitted separately. Information and/or clearance is
requested for case category as follows:

[ ] Operational Cl. [X] Security Cl. [ ] Sp. Inquiry [ ] Operational Support

2. Name of Special Project (if applicable): DTMIKADO

3. Investigation to be completed as: [ ] Routine [ ] Expedite
by not later than 1 June 1952.

4. Scope and nature of, use or activity:

Subject is the president of a company which will provide
accreditation in Japan to a contract agent of this organization. It is not
expected that subject will learn of the agent's connection with this
organization, however.

5. Suggested "cover" for investigation:
Specific:
[ ] Governmental [ ] Commercial [ ] Other

6. Limitations, if any, on investigation:

7. Subject HAS/HAS NOT been briefed that investigation is pending.
8. Subject HAS/HAS NOT been briefed on "cover" story to be used in investigation.
9. Subject HAS/HAS NOT indicated to probable investigative contacts investigation pending.
10. Subject HAS/HAS NOT indicated to probable investigative contacts "cover" story to be used.

11. CIA indices checks required for provisional operational clearance by (date)

12. REMARKS:

FORM 50-57-16 (TEST)
JOHN P. BREWER

SECRET

--- Page 17 ---

14-00000

Name: Gordon Barton McLendon
Address: 9300 Douglas, Dallas Texas

Place of Birth: Atlanta Texas/Idabelle, Oklahoma (age 30)
Military History: 1942 Entered Navy Japanese Language School, Boulder, Colo.
1943 Graduated Navy Japanese Language School
1944-Commissioned US Navy Assigned as Intelligence Officer, ONI.
Discharged as Lt(JG)

Education: Graduated Yale University
1946-Attended Harvard Law School

Wife's Name: Gay Noe (Daughter of James A. Noe former Gov. of Louisiana)
Subject has four children.

Present Occupation: President of Liberty Broadcasting System.

--- Page 18 ---

14-00000

ABSTRACT OF DOCUMENT BEING CROSS FILED
FILE NO. JG-9545
SUBJECT: McLENDON, Gordon Barton
Born: Atlanta, Texas/Idabelle, Oklahoma, age 30 (in 1952)
DATE OF DOCUMENT:
ANALYST:
CROSS FILED BY:
DATE: 26 Jan 55

PERTINENT INFORMATION:
THERE IS A RESTRICTED STC/SPB FOLDER ON THE
SUBJECT OF THIS 201 HELD IN RI/AR FILE,
WASH-CIA-PERS-4.

CROSS REFERENCE FORM

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO. 201-79764
