Viod-t0072-102728 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992.

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

TO: ACTION BRANCH

PRIOR TO FILING
1. Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back flap and forward to RID.

2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records significant action taken or comments requiring preservation.

FROM:

If file no. and title shown are not proper, Insert proper file no. below and forward document to RID/AN.

PROPER FILE NO

RID/

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK. IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

OFFICER
INITIAL
DATE

WH/COG/REG.

WH/C/51

WH/COG/CICS

E. SOCECIN

P/AK.

RYBAT/SECRET

U/S/ALLOTED

RYBAT/SECRET

DATE RECEIVED

1967

1967

M

AN

AB

FI

The following

authorities

APERTURE STATIONS

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

FROM:

RID/

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK. IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

WH/COG/REG.

WH/C/51

WH/COG/CICS

E. SOCECIN

DATE RECEIVED

1967

1967

M

AN

AB

FI

FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE)

DOCUMENT DATE

SECRET

DOCUMENT NUMMER

UNDA 03263

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

TO:

Chief, SAS

INFO:

Chief of Base, Florida

Chief of Station, WAVE, Chief, WHD

FROM:

Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT:

Contact Report (LITAMIL-9)

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

PERUMEN

Attached, for addressees, are copies of Subject contact reports dated 11 May, 14 May, and 15 May 1963.

Distribution:

C/SAS, w/att

C/WHD, w/att

COS, WAVE, w/att

COB, Merida, w/att

Files

CS COPY

CROSS REFERENCE TO DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMA 21403

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET P-6079

Attachments:

As stated above

--- Page 4 ---

LITAMIL-9

On the night of 10 May 63, I met LITAMIL-9 at the usual rendezvous point and we drove to outlying district of where debriefing took place. NO SECURITY PROBLEMS NOTED.

(LITAMIL-9) reported as follows:

MAIZ, told (L-9) that he had been in Canada and that DE LA MORA asked for (L-9).

(L-9), of course, will take advantage of VEGA remark to make contact with DE LA MORA.

L-9 commented that VEGA was with DE LA MORA.

It is interesting. It will be recalled that "Conohit a" FERNANDEZ told (L-9) to be careful with DE LA MORA because he is a contact of OLFRGE Fabra, Cuban G-2 type.

reported that on 9 May at 10:30, he saw Ramon SINORAS Casado waiting for someone.

BINOBAS saw (L-9) and waved at him. (This was KUBARK meeting) (L-9 commented that BINOBAS was definitely waiting to make a contact with someone.

Alberdi, Spanish/Cuban, who formerly attended the rate at the Cuban Embassy in Mexico, returned to Mexico on 10 May 63, this time assigned to the Embassy as "Auxiliar de Segunda Clase."

MAIZ and his wife returned via Habana on

MAIZ told (L-9) that MAIZ' wife is suffering from cancer, that she was operated on in Habana but there is no hope.

OB S/Casado, Cuban Charge, reported that on 9 May 63, Ramon met with students (about 6) from Chapingo at 1700 at the Embassy.

MAIZ told (L-9) that The meeting took place.

XXXX: Hector CALLO Portieles, Cuban Charge in Bolivia, went back to Habana recently for what he thought was short stay i.e. two weeks but he is still there. GALLO was assigned to study "instruccion politica y revolucionaria".

MAIZ also told (L-9) that Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Loper, formerly in Mexico received a scholarship. It is not known what kind for where.

MAIZ told (L-9) that Heberto JORRIN was expected to return to Mexico on 13 May 63. I said that Antonio GARCIA Lara was expected to return to Mexico shortly.

SECRET

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000

SECRET

said that he had the duty (security) all day Saturday, 11 May 63. L-9 said that Jose LLAGOSTERA is taking the day off and will not return until about 2200 this evening.

told (L-9) to report any similar info particularly re Armando SARDINAS and others who live at the Embassy.

MAIZ said that Eusebio AZCUE was expected back into

MAIZ said that his wife would return after him. He added that Bra de AZCUE is anxious to return to Mexico.

Finally identified Jere HANDY Roa as the person who is working with Buenaventura REYES Acosta and Ramon SINORAS.

(L-9) reported this previously and he asked FERNANDEZ if he was related to the Foreign Minister and FERNANDEZ didn't say yes or no. (L-9) believes that he might be because he doesn't seem very sharp and yet he's hanging around with BINOBAS and BENAVENTURA. FERNANDEZ told (L-9) who asked him about his relationship with ROA, that if he was related to ROA it was distant relationship.

Coty BOLORZANO, sister in law of Gral. Lazaro CARDENAS is scheduled to leave for Habana on 13 May 63.

L-9 said he attended a meeting at the Academia Mexicana de Derecho Internacional on 8 May 63 and the Mexican Amb to Israel spoke re non-intervention and autodeterminacion. (L-9) said the speech was typical of Mexican govt policy re Cuba.

(L-9) said that he saw Rafael ROSA Perez and Antonio PEDROZA Mon at the Embassy on 9 May 63. They were in session with Ramon SINORAS. PEDROSA, the mulatto type, told L-9 at the inaugural session of the Nicwoonda Seminar that "it was necessary for him to make a lot of contacts in Mexico". It was he who also told (L-9) that he was in contact with Raul ROA, i.e. "Estoy en contact con ROA". (L-9) said that on 9 May at the Embassy, PEDROZA was sick, i.e. pale green, bad breath etc.

I told (L-9) to make contact with PEDROZA and ARRUZA if possible and size them up. He said it would be difficult because he has no reason to see them. He merely attended the inaugural session of the Seminar.

(L-9), however, did identify both men from LIERODE "take" which I showed him on this date.

SECRET

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000

reported that a ltr to written to her skirt Embassy at which time the CO could interview her. He said the Embassy that it would take about

told that she had to investigated.

Embassy request she report for interview would type past this investigation.

L-9 brought a contract to the meeting re his brother. He pointed out that the contest was signed on 7

8 he left for Habana on 4 March. Because he was not present, he did not appear in the SEXIES contract and he was unhappy.

L-9, however, diplomatically and politely pointed out that he wanted to bring this to my attention to show that this been a sacrifice on his part, i.e. his travel to Habana on

I asked L-9 whether this meant anything to him in cold hard cash and he said it did not. He said the only thing was that if his name appeared as the Administrator of the Company when the contract was signed with (Nectio it would give him a feeling of accomplishment and security re his future relationship with the company.

L-9 identified the following from (LICHOLE photographs):

Eusebio GA na COL

Antonio ARRUZA

Rafael PEDROZA Perez

reported that the Gabin GALERIA who was used to and attended the Cuban Embassy cocktail on 19 Apr 63, is

NESEXIERZII FERNANDEZ has a home near Acapulco, where Eusebio A SU has stayed on occasions.

SECRET

FILE: LIMHIL-9

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000

do guardia todo el

Comes Abaacal etc,

ercoles & Academia Mex.

do Derecho internacional

--- Page 8 ---

14-00000

Embajada americana

Srta. Korin, solicitó vách

M. Dolores de la Hora-Vogë

Sinobas, Jueves a las 10.30

m. Junto cine Diana

Llegs Maiz hoy Viernes 10.

adscripto a la Emb. Mex.

auxiliar de segunda clase.

Sinobas, Jueves a las 5 p.m

reel 16 estudiantes Chapin -

Gallo, estudiando en Habang

"instrucción política y re-

volucionaria". orayó que

estaria en Cuba solo 15 día

Rogelio, becado

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000

On 19 May 63, I met GITANO 9 at the usual meeting and we drove to outlying district of we told Eating.

(LITA MIL-9) provided the following information:

Francisco IZ A. told (L-9) that EXARIAS forretanatat at the Cuban Embassy, and now employed by the PORTUONDOS LA Oriente (Anh Jose PORTUOUNDO) is being

She is expected to arrive from one day to the next. According to MAIZ, FARIAS was "seeking in" with anybody who came along, and has even become friendly with counterprevs.

MAIZ said that in view of the above, FARIAS is being "bounced".

Cubana plan to conduct a full body search of FARIAS when she Leaved Cuba, i.e. HEX "en oueros".

L-9 pointed out that FARIAS is a Mexican and if it true what MAIZ reporting about body search etal it would be good for FP play in Mexico.

Armined Ramos, Andres Mel

L-9 reported that Andrés ARMONA GAIN TOM

Jose FERNANDEZ ARQA, newly arrived Cuban dip, told (L-9) that he came to Merida in 1959 with a group of young people an IB NANDEZ said that Amb MASSI was in Mexico at that time. I reported the this is FERNANDEZ first overseas post.

Roberto JORR is expected to return on 14 May 63.

reported that Ovidi Abe Consul in Verans is quite sick with "turista", i.e. amoebas. He apparently has had this problem.

Ramon STORA Cuban Charge, told L-9) that his baby would be about a week old when the new Ambassador arrived and that this would be fine because he wanted to return to Cuba and tee his father who has returned to Habana from Paris (Ramon SINORAS (do)

SINORAS gave birth to baby boy.

Manuel VEGA Perez told (L-9) that the new Amb Joaquin HERNANDES de Armas "llevara a mas tarder en dies dias".

SECRET

--- Page 10 ---

SECRET

On 12 May 63, Sarket, Sumon Dunin, Cuban Embassy from Doyoucan. DUNIN, who is extremely "sharp", "realistic" and "talented" told

he Cuban Rev is now consolidated me th

ip of Fidel CASTRO to Hondow proves

that CASTRO's absence in Cuba did not affect the regime that things went on the same in his absence.

however, said that this does not mean that Cuba does not need CASTRO. He said that Cuba is not like the Soviet Union where the lose of KRUSCHEV would not affect the regime, Cuba needs CASTRO and he must be protected to avoid an assassination attempt etc.

(L-9) asked DUNIN about the "tapado" and DUNIN answered that at this time, in his opinion, not even the President LOPEZ N., knows who is going to be the candidate.

DUNIN stated that a revolution in Mexico similar to that in Cuba would be very difficult. He attributed to the fact that the masses in Mexico not the "debida premeracion politics" required for a revolution.

He said that it will take one or two generations before Mexico is ready for such a revolution.

that Eusebio AZCUE Lopos Cuban Consul, is expected back on 17 May 63.

L-9 said that while he was in Habana he asked that copies of Bohemia be sent to the Embassy. He said that 30 copies are arriving each week since his return to Mexico.

He said very little propaganda is coming.

L-9 said that he saw Rafael PEDROSA and Antonio ARRUZA Embassy but he did not have a chance to talk with

said they quickly slipped into SINORAS office.

SECRET

(LIT-9)

--- Page 11 ---

14-00000

Lama, ciudadana Mexicana, (doméstica de Portuondo):

Armona, en Tampico

Roa vino como Oficial en época de assi

maflana Hartes 14 11ege

Jorrin

probablemente en un mes

Sinoban coincidird en Hae bana con su padre proceden- to de Paris

Vega, "De Armas llegard a más tardar en dies diee"

--- Page 12 ---

14-00000

Dunin. "La Revolución está, tan consolidada, quo la momentanea ausencia de Fidel, no ha trastornado la buena marcha de las cosas en Cuba Esto no quiere

Fidel no séa in-

Dunin." Yo creo que en este momento ni el mismo Presidente sabe quien va a Box el candidato"

(Elecciones en México)

Dunin. "Dirfoil en México una revolución estilo Cube no existe para ello en la masa la debida preparación requiere por ciones,

à una o doa genera

--- Page 13 ---

LITANIL-9

On 14 May 63, I met (LITANIL-9) at usual rendezvous point and we drove to outlying area to hold meeting. SECURITY PROBLEMS NOTED Time: 2200-2300

LIM MIL-9 provided the following information:

had dinner at the Embassy on 14 May and he identified Emiediot VEGA Calero as a TDYer

that Emmanuel CARBALLO told him that "Chiquie (sto) employed by the Casa de las American is coming to soon for a couple of weeks, SARSAMENDI, Subject's father lives in Mexico and according to CARBALLO, was disappointed that his daughter was not going to a stay in Mexico. Subject's mother is living in Miami.

(L-9) reported that Sevdor DIALLO, Guinean Amb/arrived on Cuban on 14 May 63 and he saw to it that DIATIO had no problems at the airport. DIALLO is the Guinean Amb to the U.N. also.

DIALLO told (L-9) that Carlos LECHUGAM to him was highly respected by all members of the U.N. including the USB He said that LECHUGA knew how to handle himself in the very complicated U.N. maneuvers.

DIALLO said that Rang and LECHUGA make a good team (L-9) said that DIALLO is very much pro-CASTRO and undoubtedly a member of the pro-CASTRO U.N. clique

DIALLO told (L-9) that he has known Vicente VO'BARDO many years.

(L-9 identified the following LIERODE photos:

L-9 also identified JorË VERIANDEZ Embassy press recently

L-9 said he saw ARTINES in Havana

Rafael PEDROSA TDYer for centers of microwaves.

(L-9) said that Fennel NEGA Teras told Rafael PEDROSA Arandia and Antonio ARRUZA on that she should not leave any docs or papers at their hotel room. In fact, both men left immediately to get papers from their room. (L-9) believes they are staying at the Hotel Agnes.

SECRET

FILE: (LITANT-9)
