104-10326-10028 (2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992)

SECRET

MHFNO 97-7895762 SENSIND: RYBAT PAGE: 1

STAFF
ACTION: AF/SG (634) INFO: AFDORECORD, CIC/AF, CIC/CEG, CIC/CEGAF, CIC/OG, CIC/PRC, LIMITED, MDSX; ODPD, ORMS/AF, RYBAT, FILE (2/W)

97 7895762 ASR PAGE 001 IN 7895762
TOR: 141025Z MAY 97 HARE 74725

SECRET 141026Z MAY 97 STAFF
CITE HARARE 74725

TO: DIRECTOR.
FOR: LIMITED DISSEM AF/SG INFO CIC/AF

SLUGS: WNINTEL RYBAT BRACERB
SUBJECT: CONTACT REPORT WITH BRACERB/17, 201-0969314

REF: A. HARARE 74714 97 7885941
B. HARARE 74711 97 7884733

TEXT:

1. A. PARTICIPANTS -
ASSET CRYPT: BRACERB/17
TYPE ASSET: RECRUITED
C/O: PHALEN
OTHER (S) :
B. OPS ALIASES USED -
ASSET ALIAS:
C/O ALIAS:
OTHER(S) ALIAS:
C. DATE OF MEETING: 12 MAY 97
D. TIME OF MEETING: 1545-1630
E. TYPE OF MEETING: PERSONAL
F. (1) PLACE(S) OF MEETING: COS RESIDENCE PATIO
(2) MAP GRID:
G. NEXT MEETING -
DATE: 13 MAY 97
TIME: 1045
TYPE: BRUSH PASS
PLACE: <EXECUTIVE> HEALTH CLUB LOCKEROOM
MAP GRID:
ALTERNATE:

2. A. OPERATIONAL: SEE REF A REGARDING UPCOMING HQS TRIP.
COS RETURNED A/17 AND SPOUSE’S PASSPORTS WITH 10 YEAR MULTIPLE ENTRY
VISAS, WHICH PLEASED AGENT. A/17 GAVE COS UPDATED TELTAP REPORT FROM
UNILATERAL SUBSOURCE BRCOYOTE/1. AGENT REPORTED THAT NEXT WEEK HE

SECRET

13-00000
SECRET
MHFNO 97-7895762 SENSIND: RYBAT PAGE: 2

WILL BE TDY IN MALAWI WHERE HE WILL HAVE A SITDOWN SESSION WITH MAC;
COS URGED A/17 TO GET MORE FI/CI ON SANDF EFFORTS AGAINST ZIMBABWE,
ADDING THAT THE LAST REPORT WAS WELL RECEIVED. COS ALSO TASKED AGENT
ON ZAIRE.

B. INTELLIGENCE: WRITTEN REPORT FROM SUBSOURCE MAC, WHO OBTAINED
FROM VPMARTIAL/1 IN LUSAKA. WILL REPORT SEPARATELY A LENGTHY AND
BIZARRE ACCOUNT OF <JFK> CONSPIRACY WRITTEN BY NECROMANCER ROY ROBIN
(MULLINS). DPOB: 24 JUN 42, ENGLAND, A FORMER CIO OFFICER BEFORE
RAISING THE TOPIC, A/17 ASKED COS NOT TO LAUGH, AND COS PROMISED,
ONLY TO BREAK HIS WORD ONCE HE STARTED LEAFING THROUGH THE CONTENTS.
CA/17 JOKED THAT HE WOULD NEVER FORGIVE COS, WHO RETURNED THE DOCUMENT
TO AGENT.

C. ADMINISTRATIVE
SALARY:
AGENT OPS EXPENSES:
C/O OPS EXPENSES: DRINKS AND SNACKS
OTHER:

D. PLANS AND OTHER ACTION ITEMS: NEED TO PAY BRCOYOTE/1'S NEXT
SALARY. PER REF B, CONFIRM WIRE TRANSFER OF ACCOMMODATION EXCHANGE
FOR SUBSOURCE MAC. PASS FUNDS FOR AGENT'S TRAVEL, SET FOR BRUSHPASS
NEXT DAY.

E. COMMUNICATION PLAN (CHANGES ONLY) -
SCHEDULED:
ALTERNATE:
VARIANT:

EMERGENCY CONTACT -
C/O TO AGENT:
AGENT TO C/O:
RESERVE:
RECONTACT -
C/O TO AGENT:
AGENT TO C/O:

3. A. SECURITY/CI -
C/O PROBLEMS/INCIDENTS: NONE
AGENT PROBLEMS/INCIDENTS: NONE
ATMOSPHERICS: SUPERB. AGENT IS EXCITED ABOUT HIS U.S. TRIP.
B. ASSET VALIDATION/OPS TESTING:
C. SDR ROUTES -
(1) SDR GOING -
BEGIN TIME:
BEGIN LOCATION:
BEGIN MAP GRID:
MODE OF TRANSPORTATION:
COMMENTS:
(A) COVER STOP NUMBER 1:
MAP GRID:
TIME OF STOP:
TIME OF DEPARTURE:
MODE OF TRANSPORTATION:
COMMENTS:
(B) COVER STOP NUMBER 2:
MAP GRID:
TIME OF STOP:
TIME OF DEPARTURE:

SECRET

13-00000
SECRET
MHFNO 97-7895762 SENSIND: RYBAT PAGE: 3

MODE OF TRANSPORTATION:
COMMENTS:
(2) SDR RETURNING -
RETURN TIME:
RETURN LOCATION:
RETURN MAP GRID:
MODE OF TRANSPORTATION:
COMMENTS:
(A) RETURN COVER STOP NUMBER 1:
MAP GRID:
TIME OF STOP:
TIME OF DEPARTURE:
MODE OF TRANSPORTATION:
COMMENTS:
(B) RETURN COVER STOP NUMBER 2:
MAP GRID:
TIME OF STOP:
TIME OF DEPARTURE:
MODE OF TRANSPORTATION:
COMMENTS:

CL BY-07-2-1-1-95 CL_REASON_1_5C. DECL ON X1
BRACERB/17. DECL_OADR_DRV_HUM 4-82.

FILE:
END OF MESSAGE

SECRET
