104-10412-10005
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

OUTGOING MESSAGE
SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR: DEFERRED TELEPOUCH
CONF: PLOP5
INFO: FILE

DATE-TIME GROUP: 170106Z
CITE: 914708
WASHINGTON

TO: BRUSSELS
FROM: SE/BIO INFO SE/CI/X, SE/X/EU
DISSEM BY:

SUBJECT: WNINTEL CKTOP PDGRAVE WIGALES - TRACE KUZNETSOV
ASSIGNED 201-09436103

PAGE 1 OF 2 PAGES
MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER: NO INDEX
RETURN TO: IP FILES PER TRAVEL PROGRAM IP/EDI LABSTRACT DEX TRACE ON VLADIMIR/CR/V PREPARE FOR FILMRIG PRENO. (2, 3). REST. GODE IP/MB (11) IP/CRU FOR FILING
REFERENCE: BRUSSELS 41919 IN 0253021 1714
ACTION: FOR LIAISON LESS 201 AND FYI

1. VLADIMIR KUZNETSOV (ASSIGNED 201-09436103) IS POSSIBLY IDENTICAL WITH VLADIMIR SERGEYEVICH KUZNETSOV, A GRU STAFF OFFICER (FYI: PD SATISFY, DOI: 673.4)

2. FYI: ACCORDING TO PDSTORAGE, AS OF OCT 67, VLADIMIR SERGEYEVICH KUZNETSOV HELD THE RANK OF ENGINEER-MAJOR AND WAS ASSIGNED TO THE THIRD ANGLO-AMERICAN DIRECTORATE AT THE GRU HEADQUARTERS IN MOSCOW. SOMETIME EARLIER IN 1967, KUZNETSOV ATTENDED THE MILITARY DIPLOMATIC ACADEMY. END FYI.

3. FYI: SUBJECT OF PDSTORAGE AND PDSATISFY INFORMATION IS NOT IDENTICAL WITH VLADIMIR SERGEYEVICH KUZNETSOV (201-0900259) WHO SERVED AS COUNSELOR AT THE SOVIET EMBASSY IN JAKARTA FROM 72 TO 75. END FYI.

DATE: 17 Sept 76
ORIG: 201-943610
UNIT:
EXT: 26
RELEASING OFFICER:
COORDINATING OFFICERS:
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER: IMPDET
CLASSIFICATION:
CL BY:

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

OUTGOING MESSAGE
SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR: ROUTINE
CONF:
INFO: FILE

DATE-TIME GROUP:
CITE: 914708

PAGE 2 OF 2 PAGES
MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER: INDEX

DISSEM BY:
RETURN TO: NO INDEX

AS KUZNETSOV IS A COMMON SOVIET SURNAME, HEADQUARTERS WILL RETRACE SUBJECT REF UPON RECEIPT OF PATRONYMIC AND ADDITIONAL PERTINENT BIO DATA

FILE: 201-0943610 AND 201-0900259. E-2 IMPDET.

REQUESTED TRACES ON PCS SOV MD 40417

DATE: 13 SEPT 76
ORIG: SE/BIO
UNIT: DOREEN PETERSON
EXT: X1551

RELEASING OFFICER: SE/CI/X P.U. BONSSON
COORDINATING OFFICERS: SE/X/EU M. NOSTER
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER: IMPDET
CLASSIFICATION:
CL BY: SULLIVAN

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
