```text
14-00000

104-10176-10005 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH CLASSIFICATION
SECRET/KAPOK

PROCESSING ACTION
FOR INDICATING
TO FU
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
Chief, WH/COG
ANG MENG REQUIRED
ED DESIGN
Chief of Station, Mexico City
SUBJECT
PBRUMEN/Developments of the LIRING-3 Operation

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES PYI
References: A. MEXICO CITY 2322
B. MEXICO CITY 2331
C. MEXICO CITY 2358
D. MEXICO CITY 2363
E. MEXICO CITY 2396

1. Forwarded as Attachment One under separate cover are seven contact
summaries prepared by LIFEAT on recent developments of the LIRING-3
Operation dated 27 and 28 July, 1, 3 (two reports), 5 and 9 August 1967
(two reports). One of the reports dated 3 August is a monthly resume of
operational activities for the month of July. It is forwarded together with
the other reports rather than separately to give as complete a picture as
possible of LIRING-3's dealings with Moises OROZCO Leal, the circumstances
in which the two men met and the reporting of these dealings by LIRING-3
to ROWTON. Forwarded as Attachment Two, also under separate cover, are
photo copies of a two page typewritten message left by OROZCO at LIRING-3's
apartment on 1 August. Another copy of this message is being forwarded to
Guatemala City separately.

continued
Attachments:
# 1 - Seven Reports a/s para 1 UNDER SEPARATE COVER
# II- Message Left by OROZCO UNDER SEPARATE COVER

Distribution:
2 - C/WED w/atts USC
1 - C/WH/COG w/o atts
4 - FILES

CROSS REFERENCE TO
CS COPY
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
EDGA-32778
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET/KAPOK
201-798301
DATE
15 August 1967
HQS FILE NUMBER
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

2. There is little question that LIRING-3 seized the opportunity, given
him by the sudden apparition of OROZCO on the scene to cover vis a vis his
wife a few days of misbehaving. Instead of proceeding to Tapachula to receive
from the FAR new contract instructions in Mexico City (an awkward arrangement
to say the least), LIRING-3 remained at the safe house he uses in the capital
to receive the visit (as indicated by LIFEAT) of Berta VIGISSER his "regular"
mistress, Silvia DURAH (of Lee Harvey OSWALD fame) and possibly a certain
Yolanda (who appears for the first time in this operation and whose phone
number is not in the Station reversed Mexico City telephone directory).
Pinned down on the fact that he was in Mexico City during the period of 19
to 21 July, LIRING-3 admitted that he was but felt that he had to tell
another lie rather than admit his misbehavior. This lie was that he did not
want to appear dependant on Sergio VALDEZ in the eyes of ROWTON and so
made his first meeting with OROZCO "more intriguing" by inventing the trip
to Tapachula. To add credence to the Tapachula story, LIRING-3 previously
asked his wife to impress ROWTON with her concern for his, telling ROWTON
that he had disappeared for three days without telling her where he went.
This she did very convincingly with much sobbing and crying. The LIROSIN
LP which continues to experience technical difficulties now and then did not
operate properly that day (it's recorder broke down) but, as luck will have
it LIROSIN live monitored conversation between LIRING-3 and his wife
during which the latter reported that her tears seemed to have convinced
ROWTON.

What happened between OROZCO, LIRING-3, Sergio VALDEZ and Raul
MORENO is explained in detail in ROWTON's reports forwarded with this
dispatch. A few additional points should probably be made here. First of
all, part of the first meeting between LIRING-3 and OROZCO at LIRING-3's
safehouse was live-monitored by LIROSIN when the latter returned home from
his regular bartending job in the early hours of the morning. LIROSIN
heard enough (his recorder was once more inoperative) to basically confirm
LIRING-3's report of his meeting with OROZCO to ROWTON. Secondly, neither
VALDEZ nor MORENO were present during the night of 31 July - 1 August when
LIRING-3 told OROZCO that the latter was in fact a deserter from the FAR,
refusing to indicate how he knew this (ROWTON had passed LIRING-3 information
on OROZCO received by the Station from both LIREBEL-1 and 2). The two men
arrived at LIRING-3's apartment in the early morning hours when OROZCO
had admitted everything and thus do not know what prompted him to tell the
truth. Thirdly, LIRING-3 insists that he told OROZCO nothing about his
plastic flower business and it's contemplated use to cover activities in
support of the Guatemalan rebels. According to him, OROZCO already knew
this as well as other details of his dealings with the FAR. LIRING-3
presumes that OROZCO learned this from the higher-ups of the FAR guerrillas
while in the hills. OROZCO mistakenly apparently thought that LIRING-3 was
in the actual arms procurement business whereas his discussions with the
FAR have been limited up to now to the eventual transportation of FAR
acquired supplies from Northern Mexico to Guatemala (with the FAR assuming
the responsibility of smuggling these supplies over the Guatemalan border).
LIRING-3's plastic flower business designed to cover support activities on
behalf of the FAR, is not, as a matter of fact operative yet. Thus OROZCO
was badly informed of LIRING-3's activities. How OROZCO hoped to obtain arms
from LIRING-3, had the latter been able to deliver some at the Guatemalan
border area, in view of the fact (as he later admitted) that he was stone
broke, is a matter of conjecture. A desperate men may do desperate things
and LIRING-3 could have found himself in serious trouble. Judging from the
FAR's shooting habits it is a good thing in any case that OROZCO was not
armed during the argument at LIRING-3's apartment the night of 31 July to
1 August, particularly when VALDEZ started to threaten him.

CLASS CATION
FORM
364
USE PREVIOUS EDITION
SECRET/KAPOK
CONTINUED
PAGE NO
TWO

4. This Station believes that the LIRING-3 Operation has reached a
critical point as a result of the OROZCO affair. Both the Cubans and the
FAR (via Ernesto CAPUANO Del Vecchio) have been notified by LIRING-3 of
OROZCO's conduct and statements (a copy of OROZCO's message forwarded as
Attachment Two was given CAPUANO). If the PAR is at all interested in
LIRING-3 he will somehow hear from the Guatemalan guerrillas and negociations
concerning arms and equipment will be reamped. LIRING-3 has not heard from
"GARCIA" since June and does not even know if the latter is in Mexico.

It is the Station's opinion that he probably will hear nothing directly
from the Cubans.

5. Headquarters will note, per ROWTON's report dated 28 July, the
relative ease with which LIRIEG-3 claims to be obtaining a false passport
and other identity papers. The Cuban's passports that LIRING-3 purchased
in Nuevo Laredo, mentioned in the same report, were issued in 1953 and 1959
and may be of marginal value. They will nevertheless be forwarded to
Headquarters together with other documentation held by the bearers of these
passports.

for CASTILLO Rada:
David Cassiday
Raymond BERMUDEZ Mallol,
Mario Iná
Valentin Grue? no this in Grozes.
Raymond A Franger.
for Willard C. CURTIS

CLASSIFICATION
FORM
364
USE PREVIOUS EDITION
SECRET/KAPOK
CONTINUED
PAGE NO
THREE

TALLER DE VITRALES
PLAZA MIRAVALLO 3
MEXICO, D. F.

CS COPY
all No. I to Hmma-22778 of 15 august 1967 201-798301

14-00000
podia contimuar
2. 105
Facul
=> 7
12.
13
justo que une lon
32
pended quia quierin r
pede jus, la soldalin hun cora ga & toi
3
In histo
e
- R
in etapa de tuiefia ya li pase knoe macho timbɔ, 157 837
monda la vida ne in beide selɔ en
haciendo locum com or he is the quos,
er
va y
sta
torture y detto yo la vida ya in cinsel y to pojista cases para tempore
obra vivir unos dias os ein que esto tam jus.
icado fin de pasarme almɔ is unique ne apps andre por
7:3
flete ea loptimates pers,
Milag a chiab no soy de
lion oppo y sin
ne pas ina ation
hi tenido eta mi persona si uds. 25 cm combiente sin
so tact,
gega
pun
pora la tua que quien no l
də polisico y
es
pidas; r: =

14-00000
que no
*
**
*
boe
1 porque ese par
, los mais c2 c
en de ver xi
and necesita de frenter
* s en die el
ELORES DE LA VERI AD S
100 dan pera as its tat
y que no 10 es ut que te
egan a in
onday and T
cual es el futur of o. as comifsiones
perdic In iniciativa po e numa
RADAR querra pars en teia cu plent
~37 eft, A
mienta y el areas a suerto londs esta el priatej en el che,
ufsz• #D__ TtT$unio, a vhi-ke« ?aaaܪ:Te,dis uas vr
is 100 sus se rai cumperi de
- Tabiera
une zone
bed, cuando apere est en la pair
que es 24 revolucion porque erelio de l'a zer erțaie ni padrin
io por eso y cuanta gente de 51 propta ofere at in suddador
to yo quiero caer por algo no por peniajo y yo
api
pueda a util estoyuca ordenes previa discusson del cas, los
telefonos y arras cosas las quene for segir_day, no es demoonfianm
sino-seguridad.

14-00000

TALLER DE VITRALES
PLAZA MIRAVALLO 3
MEXICO. D. F.

14-00000
Aion 1:
tota a u
toria
12
205
to
la forme en o
lusion, pin
cho 7 donde
o un nabera
29 da
jedre, yo
un voto is onvâ
gaton ya
in fundi
200
que boy up:
_ 22
50%
܂
Lo
♪ Ġe
hacer el pl
hinter
105 vinci, diariamens
gen de los
as no e.
indo con i delo,
12, pero eso ±1 10 done as
.
andre
posible
> ni plums
to cr
?
65
29
de silos dependen ex
o, que no de la taco servo nid, mere.
contables ni historia
qung 100.puin oriva
punto de vista,
y en más de la 45 jú
pria dis
Rota
padedad que de consten a diario y ya 2 a quieren rré, to a
un deu si no varnbora el apoyo de 2 oral
ca decia el o lilicionante como dics CT 60
puder, la collaridad humana de un cop que a toiss
preocup pero no deale el punto de cay ento sino do echos,
y
sia
p
a jus
por
tan buen informasion a recuno do ri rus no
reapreto y de lo que ten tonen las pivion's 3 to al
1 expa dei
pase nos mobo vino, hoy soy
1979 a in vita in jurade, rido en nich naci
haciende locuras con dici pot hay he tumido a quarta qit muhoa,
he incluse toeboligenes que muchon he olisin
thos
yle peles en is lengua cundo de regain puntos de vista
suta ko sila dissato y no hay cuidado ca lo que ca refiere a
torture y dunno yo in vida ya la ornooi y me una carga
ne geben vivis uns dies no one ho no piu que esto
sificado Cin, de pacazue algɔ la unica que me apena co mi
lo que in his rin.los pensamiento cerpen tho de lo que te drage
in a la mano le poiria echar in culşa, y lungs a fis de c
cvantes Matematicos en 12 4 historia do
no han habidovollicica igne casino contra viento
& pecar de que lo dogmatices to cuide of alles nora
flote en los infos populares;, la revolusion en medio de
abone so ha dio a por de 100 paramas, no la paran ni, lie:
teilur a chano y comastia q>
han tenido a mi persona of uds. lo ce simteniente Dine
que 6,
quoden t
hera que par in threa que quieran mo no insondici
nota polico y menda do ces cover) sclope
un paco do promenite y y de docisiones impidno pora car
bres a midle en un averturn on injeto consider que no calts
adelante con el dolor de ter que alguida por mi culpa falta
%
stimulacions
•
2142
7 sin
> A
rese
Q 27
Car

27 July, 1967

1. LIRING/3 reported to Rowton at brief preliminary debriefing that during
Rowton absence a Guatemalan (unidentified) telephoned him at a safehouse and
instructed him to go to Tapachula on 19 July and await contact in lobby of local
moviehouse. LIRING/3 stated that he took the trip and was approached in lobby
by same young Guatemalan woman (with oriental features) who he had
met in Guatemala City during his last trip. This woman simply informed him
that a comrade would contact him (LIRING/3) at his home in next few days and
discuss future operations. LIRING/3 continued that he returned to Mexico
City next day and was contacted at his home by Guatemalan aged about 45,
mustache, glasses, balding head, slightly hooked nose, wearing hat indistinct
who later stated his true name is Moises Crozco Leal and that he has been
in Mexico past twenty years.

2. At meeting next day in safehouse Crozco informed LIRING/3 that he ordered by
Montes group to establish contact with LIRING/3 in order to expedite first shipment
of arms and ammo which urgently needed. When L/3 mentioned possibility air-
lift from San Cristóbal area through small privately chartered plane, Crozco
intensely interested and acceded to LIRING/3 request that he first meet with
"responsible high-level" FAR representatives. Crozco stated that in his
opinion LIRING/3 should discuss whole operation with Montes himself and volun-
teered to arrange meeting in near future.

3. LIRING/3 states that he is awaiting further instructions from Crozco and
is prepared for trip to Chiapas once final arrangements made.

4. Re Garcia L/3 reported that he has not reappeared and when he queried
Orozco about him, txt Orozco stated he personally not acquainted with him,
since strict compartmentation being enforced. Also in course of conversation
Orozco stated that only part of the medicines procured by L/3 had arrived at
their destination and it is presumed that remainder was captured by Guate-
malan army. He added that FAR needed a doctor urgently for about ten days
and would appreciate L/3 arranging this if feasible. L/3 suggested to Rowton
that Raúl Moreno, who is in third year of medical studies, might qualify if
Rowton could not come up with fully qualified doctor.

5. Request traces Moises Crozco Real.

CS COPY
and No I to Hmma - 32778 of 15 august 1967
bor-798301

MOISES
OROZCO
LEAL
20 AÑOS EN MEXICO
36-35 EDAD APROX.

28 July 1967

Subject: Wallace E. Rowton Meeting with LIRING/3.

1. On the morning of 27 July, 1967, the day after his return to Mexico
City, Rowton contacted LIRING/3 at his home and arranged for a meeting
at the safehouse at 1130 that same morning. L/3 commented that he was
greatly relieved that Rowton had returned safely since many things had
happened during his absence and L/3 had felt uncertain about what he should
do in the event Rowton had been delayed any longer.

2. At the 1130 meeting at the safehouse, LIRING/3 reported that he and
LIRING/4 had accompanied L/3's half brother in his car to Sabinas, Coah.,
the day that Rowton had departed for Guyana. L/3
related that immediately on arrival he had his half-brother introduce him
as planned to the judge in Nueva Rosita, a small village near Sabinas. L/3
reported to Rowton that the judge is named Francisco Mario Valdez Hernández
and is actually a "Juez Ménor" but also a notario publico and an "agente
del Ministério Público", and, as such, has authority to issue important
documents. According to L/3, judge Valdez, who gave the appearance of a
homosexual, spoke openly about his ability and willingness to issue false
documents and arrange for a passport for L/3 in the alias Alberto Zárate.
He promised to take care of the matter for the sum of 2,000 pesos, but ac-
cepted a down payment of 1,500 pesos and gave L/3 a receipt for this amount
"para el areglo de un pasaporte mexicano", addressed to Alberto Zárate Vi-
dal. In addition LIRING/3's half-brother persuaded the judge to arrange
for the issuance to Alberto Zárate of an identity card showing that Zárate
was an "actuario" of the Ministry of Labor, and for a driver's license, so
that Zárate would have additional documents attesting to his identity.

3. LIRING/3 commented that he was certain that he could arrange for false
papers for Rowton in the event the latter felt he could use such papers.
L/3 continued that he and L/4 then proceeded to Nuevo Loredo and picked
up the three Cuban passports that his half-brother had purchased on his
behalf for the sum of 500 pesos. L/3 explained that although the persons
to whom the passports were issued were dead they might conceivably be of
use to Rowton in the future. He added that the hotel clerk who sold the
documents to his half-brother had originally asked 1,500 pesos but appa-
rently was glad to get the 500 when it was offered in cash on the table.

4. LIRING/3 continued that he and L/4 returned to Mexico City on 14 July

taking the bus at Torreón. LIRING/3 then announced jubilantly that a few
days after his return, while he was visiting the safehouse in the hope
of Rowton's return or at least a telephone call, he received a telephone
call from an anonymous man, obviously a Guatemalan, who asked whether he
could make a trip to Tapachula in order to meet with a friend. When L/3
indicated that he could make the trip, the person instructed him to wait
in the lobby of the Figueroa movie house until he was approached by the
"friend". LIRING/3 told Rowton that he then proceeded by train to Tapachu-
la (on 19 July) and waited in the lobby as instructed. To his great sur-
prise, he was approached by the same Guatemalan young woman who had met
him in Guatemala City in late January, 1967, and told that a certain "Valen-
tín" would contact him at his home in Mexico City in the near future and
that this person was to be his new contact with FAR. LIRING/3 continued
that, feeling that he had accomplished the sole purpose of the trip, he returned
to Mexico City on 21 July in order to await the arrival of "Valentín". Ac-
cording to LIRING/3 this occurred in a rather strange way. When he returned
home he found a note under the door with a brief text stating that some-
one had passed by to see him. The note was signed with a five-pointed star
rather crudely drawn in the place of a signature. L/3 stated that he was
completely puzzled at this, but on reflexion felt that the five-pointed
star meant 1700 and he therefore went to the safehouse at 1700 that day
to await further contact. According to L/3, a person did telephone him
shortly after he arrived and identified himself as "Valentin". He asked L/3
to await another call at 1030 the following day so that a meeting could be
arranged. L/3 continued that he finally succeeded in meeting with "Valentín"
and brought him to the safehouse on the evening of 25 July. He stated that
he talked with this person until 0400 the following morning.

5. LIRING/3 reported that "Valentin", who identified himself by true name
as Moisés Crozco Leal, Calle Tempis 88, Apt 5, Zona 21, Country Club, Col.
Churubusco, Mexico City, D.F. Orozco stated to L/3 that he had been in Me-
xico some twenty years and had been engaged in propaganda work for the FAR.
He added that recently he had received instructions to contact L/3 and talk
with him "very frankly" concerning the procurement problem. He explained
to L/3 that Far had had very disappointing experiences in the past and was
in desperate need of secure and efficient channels for the procurement of
arms and ammunition from the U.S. and Mexico. He stated that FAR had the
cash necessary to purchase the arms and hoped that LIRING/3's commercial
network could handle the procurement and transport. He indicated to L/3
that FAR had checked him out with favorable results both locally and with

LIREBEL-1.
the Cubans. In the course of conversation "Valentín" mentioned that Doc-
tora Mercedes Pereira, whom L/3 had met in Havana, was currently in Mexi-
co. "Valentín" stated that it was a very critical time for FAR and that
everyone hoped that something would be solved in Havana with regard to
concrete aid from the Cubans. He indicated that in the past both the Cubans
and the Soviets had done more talking than producing in both material and
hard cash. In speaking of the most immediate needs, "Valentin" stated that
FAR needed a doctor urgently to train the revolutionaries in first aid,
and he asked L/3 whether he could recommend a doctor that might be willing
to visit FAR headquarters for about ten days for this purpose. L/3 told
Rowton that he promised to look into the latter soonest, adding that he had
in mind his friend Raúl Moreno Honchee, who was a medical student and pro-
bably qualified to give first aid instruction.

6. LIRING/3 continued that he expressed his willingness to assist in the
arms procurement effort, but would prefer to be able to talk directly with
FAR leaders to get first-hand information as to their needs, and arrange
secure methods of payment. When L/3 referred to the delinquent account
(medicine and radio tubes) "Valentín" replied that unfortunately only part
of the medicine had arrived intact, the other part presumedly having been
captured by the Guatemalan army. He promised that L/3 would be paid soon
for the material furnished and apologized for not having the money with him.
He added that he receives not financial assistance from FAR and has to live
as best he can from his own resources. In reply to L/3's query, "Valentín"
stated that he did not personally know "Garcia", since Far insisted on con-
partmentation, and there had been no need for him to meet "Garcia" in the
past. He then lectured L/3 on security, stating that FAR principal pro-
blem to date had been within the organization itself resulting from laxness
on the part of revolutioncrisis and outright betrayal by some members. He
added that LIRING/3 had been assigned the battle-name "Rafael" and that
henceforth he should use that name whenever dealing with FAR members.

7. LIRING/3 told Rowton that, in the course of conversation regarding possib-
le supply channels, th mentioned the possibility of air-drops from small
privately chartered planes, using the Raúl Moreno as a pilot. According to
L/3, "Valentín" showed immediate interest in this, commenting that he was
certain FAR would be most interested. He then stated that he felt L/3 was
an important enough asset to meet directly with César Montes himself and
he promised to look into the possibility of arranging a personal interview.
L/3 replied that he would welcome this opportunity since it would clarify

the entire picture for him and enable him to render the most efficient
service to FAR. "Valentín" promised to share some specific word on this
at their next meeting. Then he requested for 28 July, promising
to come to L/3's home between 1500 and 1700. "Valentin" explained that
although the safehouse appeared to be an excellent meeting place, it was
FAR policy not to use the same apartment or place of meeting more than
once.

8. Rowton met with LIRING/3 again at 1430 on 29 July, 1967, at the safehouse.
The second meeting had been scheduled for 1900 on 28 July, but on arrival
at the safehouse, Rowton found a note from L/3 stating that he would not
be able to make the 1900 meeting but would see Rowton at 1430 the follow-
ing day. The only explanation in the note for the delay was "cosas muy
importantes han sucedido". When Rowton met with LIRING/3 thelot for at
1430, the latter explained that "Valentin" had left a note at his home
saying the meeting would be delayed, and then appeared unannounced when
L/3 was not at home and talked briefly with LIRING/4. L/3 stated that he
alarmed LIRING/4 by stating that he ("Valentin") had a wounded man that
must be taken care of urgently and asked L/4 to pass on the message to L/3
in the hope that L/4 could look into the possibility of locating a good
trusted doctor. "Valentin" promised to come back to the house as soon as
he could. According to L/3, "Valentin" reappeared unannounced at about
1000 on 29 July, and showed L/3 a telegram which he had just received from
Guatemala City. The telegram contained the text "If you are interested
in further details concerning the business, present yourself here", and
was addressed to "Valentin" in his true name and address. L/3 stated that
he could not recall the sender's name or address but he assumed that it
would be an alias in any case.

9. According to L/3, "Valentín" explained to him that the telegram meant
that a meeting with César Montes could be arranged and that L/3 should ac-
cordingly prepare himself for the trip. In reply to L/3's query, "Valen-
tín" stated that this took priority over the operation involving the won-
ded comrade, who was expected in Mexico City in about 7-8 days. "Valentín"
then stated that he and L/3 would have to make a trip to Tapachula as soon
as feasible and in order to receive from a FAR contact a sealed envelope
containing the name of the first contact in Guatemala City. He added that
he himself would not know what was in the envelope and would himself pro-
ceed on into Guatemala with the Fan contact who delivered the letter. He
added that L/3 would then have to return to Mexico City and fly into Guate-
mala City under commercial cover, since it would be too dangerous to

proceed on to Guatemala City from Tapachula by air (the airport being
small and all travelers being subject to the curiosity and scrutiny of
the local officials). Valentín then stated that L/3 should be able to
pass through the Guatemala City airport without difficulty provided he
kept his eye out for a certain José Linares, an ex-Chief of Police who
worked for the North-American Embassy and had a complete file on all sus-
pect persons who might enter or leave the airport. "Valentin" described
Linares as a man of short stature, thin, grey hair combed in a high peak
in front, usually dressed in a doble-breasted jacket. "Val" added that
Linares was considered the most dangerous man at the airport, although he
is not an official but simply a secret agent of the North Americans.

10. "Valentin" then, according to L/3, stated that the latter should procure
the following items at once so that he could arm him when to accula with
him:
1) Khaki shirt and trousers (pantalón y causa de lona muy press)
2) Leather combat boots (zapatos de campaña)
3) Browning or Walter 9mm automatic weapon with 3 clips and 50
rounds of ammunition.
4) Detonators with wick or electric fuse
5) Gauze for medical treatment
6) Three pills of most potent poison avialkable.
"Valentin" explained that the Downing automatic was the best since it
could be converted easily into a machinegun" with its clip of 13 cart-
ridges. The Walter was also good since it could be fitted with a silencer.
"Valentin" also explained that the poison capsules were desirable to be
taken in the event of capture by the army to avoid the possibility of any-
one confessing under torture. He added that one was for the use of L/3
and the other two for the comrades who would be his escorts.

11. "Valentin" further explained that L/3 should open the sealed envelope
he had received in Tapachula when he was aboard the plane enroute to Gua-
temala City, memorize the name and address and then destroy the paper. He
added quickly that he realized L/3 could open the envelope any time after
he received it in Tapachula, and he was free to do so, but it was hoped
for security reasons that he would open it only after he had left Mexico
City airport. "Valentin" added that he himself had no idea of what name
would appear on the paper, but in any case he was sure that it would be
the name of a person not directly involved in revolutionary activities.

12. In the event that all went well, and L/3 succeeded in reaching the FAR
headquarters, he was to contact a certain "Alberto Domingo" who would
provide him with the necessary transportation to the mountains. He was
to contact Alberto Domingo through a code word which "Valentin" gave him.
If for any reason L/3 was unable to contact Domingo, he was to contact a
certain "Carlos" who would then put him in touch with a certain "César".
"Carlos" was to be contacted through a certain "Esperanza" who was to be
contacted through a certain "Jacobo". In the event that 1/3 was unable
to contact "Jacobo", he was to contact a certain "Enrique" who would then
contact "Esperanza". "Enrique" was to be contacted through a certain
"Carlos Navarrete". "Valentin" stated that he himself did not know any
of these persons and could not provide L/3 with any further information
regarding them. He added that in the event that 1/3 was unable to contact
any of these persons, he should simply go to a certain "safehouse" in
Guatemala City and ask for a certain "Alberto". "Alberto" would then
provide him with the necessary transportation to the mountains.

13. "Valentin" then stated that the trip to Tapachula should be made as
soon as possible, and that 1/3 should telephone him from Tapachula upon
receipt of the sealed envelope. He added that he would be waiting for
the call at a certain telephone in the lobby of the Hotel Regis in Mexico
City. 1/3 was to ask for a certain "señor Gómez" and give the code word
"24 de Diciembre". "Valentin" then stated that he would be at the Hotel
Regis at 1700 on 30 July, and that L/3 should telephone him at that time
if he had already returned from Tapachula. "Valentin" then added that
he would not be able to talk with L/3 at that time but would simply tell
him whether or not he should return to Mexico City. If the answer was
affirmative, "Valentin" would tell L/3 to return to Mexico City and
await further contact. If the answer was negative, "Valentin" would
instruct L/3 to proceed directly to Guatemala City and await further
instructions.

14. "Valentin" then gave L/3 the address of the safehouse in Guatemala
City, which was Calle 6, 1-71, Zona 2. He stated that if L/3 had to
go to the safehouse he should ask for "Alberto" and use the code word
"Siempre". He then added that if "Alberto" was not there, L/3 should
simply wait in the lobby until someone came along who looked like a
"revolutionary" and then approach him and say "I am looking for Alberto".
The revolutionary would then take L/3 to the correct person. "Valentin"
then stated that if 1/3 had any difficulty in finding the safehouse,
he should telephone a certain "señor Gomez" at telephone number 82-46-
33 in Guatemala City and give the code word "Siempre". "Gomez" would
then give him the necessary instructions as to how to reach the safe-
house. "Valentin" added that he did not know who "Gomez" was, but
that he was certain that he was a member of FAR.

15. "Valentin" then stated that if all went well and L/3 succeeded in
contacting César Montes, he should tell Montes that he was a friend of
"Garcia" and that he had been sent to him by "Valentin". He added that
Montes would then give him further instructions as to what to do. "Valentin"
then stated that he himself would be proceeding to Guatemala