“Hod | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

25 June 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR: Central Cover Staff
ATTENTION: Charlie Danish
SUBJECT: Ross CROZIER
REFERENCE: SAS Memorandum Dated 14 May 1963

1. Referenced memorandum requested the Subject be provided with military cover while assigned in the Headquarters area for operational and credit purposes in the performance of his duties with SAS. It is understood that your office was reluctant to issue the Subject the necessary military cover because he was physically located in a DODS office which was under commercial cover.

2. As indicated verbally on 24 June 1963, SAS will move the Subject out of the DODS area on 26 June. SAS has also requested suitable office or apartment space through the Office of Logistics from which the Subject will operate in the future. Until this property is acquired, the Subject will perform his duties from his home. Consequently, it is requested that immediate attention be given to providing the Subject with the necessary military cover. Refer any questions to G. A. LADNER, Jr., SAS/Security, ext. 5909.

Desmond FitzGerald
Chief, SAS

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee
1 - SAS/Security

SAS/Security:GALadner:ftk - 25 June 1963

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

19 June 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Central Cover Staff
Room 1-B-24 Headquarters Building
SUBJECT: Request for Domestic Cover
Mr. Ross Lester Crozier
REFERENCE: Form 1322, forwarded to your Office, 14 May 1963

1. It is requested that this Office be advised as to the disposition of our request dated 14 May 1963 for providing Mr. Ross Lester Crozier appropriate Domestic Cover.

2. Since security requirements prohibit Mr. Crozier from being located in the Headquarters Building, he has been provided an office in the DODS Area. Subject needs "Cover" as soon as possible, for credit purposes, employment, etc.

3. Your prompt attention to this matter would be appreciated.

Desmond FitzGerald
Chief, Special Affairs Staff

CC: DODS
DDP/SAS/PERSONNEL /J. Albert Hoeseriket (19 June 63)
Distribution:
Orig - Addressee
1 - DODS
1 - SAS/Personnel

SECRET

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

SECRET

REQUEST FOR DOMESTIC COVER LIST ENTRY OR CHANGE
SUBMIT THIS FORM IN TRIPLICATE, ENCLOSED IN SEALED ENVELOPE

TO: Central Cover Staff
THROUGH:
SUBJECT: Mr. Ross Lester Crozier

Inclusion of subject on the Domestic Cover List is requested for the reason noted below. When notified that cover has been established, subject will be specifically authorized and instructed to conceal his Agency affiliation.

Subject is currently included on the Domestic Cover List. For the reason noted below, it is requested that:

( ) this employee be removed from the Domestic Cover List.
( ) the following change be made:

Note: Subject was formerly under commercial cover at JMFAVE prior to January 1963.

COVER (Complete only for new entries)

TYPE COVER IN USE:

TYPE SUGGESTED (Specify whether official or non-official):

JUSTIFICATION:

APPROVED BY CENTRAL COVER DIVISION:

SIGNATURE:

ORVILLE C. DAWSON
Chief, SAS/Personnel

FORM 1322 LTE POWERS CSITIONS. SECRET

REQUESTING OFFICIAL

DATE

DDP-(4 EFT)

--- Page 4 ---

SECRET

(When Filled In)

DD/P PERSONNEL DATA SHEET

NAME: CROZIER, Ross AGE: April 1963
DOB: 23 June 1922
STATION: HQ
DD/P UNIT:
PRIMARY CAREER AND DUTIES: DESIGNATION: CAREER AGENT
PRESENT GRADE: GS-12 PRESENT T/O SLOT: NA
PROPOSED GRADE: NA NUMBER AND GRADE: NA
CIA TRAINING: PROPOSED T/O SLOT: NA
NUMBER AND GRADE: NA
EDUCATION: Wife: Costa Rican citizen, DOB: 15 Mar 1913
LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY: Son: DOB: 4 Sept 1947 - U.S. Citizen
DAU: DOB: 24 June 1951 - U.S. Citizen
Spanish (Fluent - writing/reading/speaking)

ASSESSED: DATE: TYPE OF POSITION: RESULTS:

EXPERIENCE PRIOR TO CIA (excluding SSU-OSS):
U.S. Army and U.S. Air Force, Tech Sgt. (1940-1945: Intelligence B29) & (April 46 - Apr 49)
Leading man labor, $12.36 per day, US Naval Air Station, Coco Solo, Canal Zone; (Jan. 1946- April 1946).

SUMMARY OF CIA-SSU-OSS ASSIGNMENTS INCLUDING PREVIOUS GRADES AND DATES:
Contract and career agent since June 1949 - Intelligence assignments in Costa Rica, Guatemala, and Cuba, (Foreign Intelligence with some Psychological Warfare and Paramilitary) FI mission with Castro's forces in Sierra Maestra (April 58). Mexico City Jan 59 to May 1960; assigned to WP4 PA-PROP from June 60 to Oct 61; Assigned PCS MAVE Oct 61 to Jan 1963. (Case Officer on student project involving propaganda and area intelligence collection & network operation; CO on press placement and press collection project).

RECOMMENDED BY: CONCURRENCES:

RECOMMENDATION OF CAREER SERVICE BOARD:

FORM NO. USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS. SECRET
1 MAR 57 965

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000

SECRET

TRAVEL ORDER

TDY
PCS
INVITATIONAL

OFFICE TRAVEL ORDER NO. SAS-473-63
SERVICE ALL CAPER NO.
NAME: Mr. Ross L. Crosier
OFFICIAL STATION: Washington, D. C.
OFFICE PHONE: 6576 GRADE: Career Agent

YOU ARE AUTHORIZED TO TRAVEL AND INCUR NECESSARY EXPENSES IN ACCORDANCE WITH REGULATIONS. THIS TRAVEL OR CHANGE OF OFFICIAL STATION, IF SO DESIGNATED, IS MADE FOR OFFICIAL PURPOSES AND NOT FOR YOUR PERSONAL CONVENIENCE.

ITINERARY, MODE OF TRAVEL AND PURPOSE
From Washington, D. C. to RIC for approximately three (3) days TDY and return.

MODE: Air tourist/ce
PURPOSE: Operational contacts

TRAVEL DURATION
BEGIN / END
19 Mar 63 22 Mar 63

PER DIEM ALLOWANCE
DOMESTIC: 16.00
FOREIGN: MAXIMUM
OTHER: (See below)

ALLOWANCES AND SPECIAL PROVISIONS WITH REASONS

ESTIMATED COST OF TRAVEL: $100.00

DEPENDENT TRAVEL AUTHORIZED
NAME DATE OF BIRTH RELATIONSHIP

PROCURE TRANSPORTATION BY
TRANSPORTATION REQUEST
CASH OR OTHER

DISPOSITION OF EFFECTS
AUTHORIZATION
SHIPMENT
NONTEMPORARY
STORAGE

SHIPMENT POA AUTHORIZED
EXCESS BAGGAGE AUTHORIZED
ACCOMPANIED LBS. AND MODE
UNACCOMPANIED LBS. AND MODE

ADVANCE OF FUNDS REQUESTED
$100.00 ACCOUNTING DUE DATE

OBLIGATION REFERENCE NO. 473-63

CHARGE COST CENTER NO. 3132-1000-1000

SIGNATURE OF B&F OFFICER

REQUESTING OFFICIAL: Vincent J. Beyhan, Chief, SAS/Support

AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL: DESAND FITZGERALD, Chief SAX

FORM OBSOLETE
540 PREVIOUS
MFG. 3-63 EDITIONS.

SECRET
March '63

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000

13 March 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Finance Division
THROUGH: Chief, Staff Agent Accounts Section
Chief, Contract Personnel Division
SUBJECT: Reassignment of Career Agent - Harold E. MURRAY

This is to advise you that Career Agent Harold E. Murray is reassigned PCS from SHAVE to the Regulator, W. C. area on 21 January 1963.

EDWARD J. HEYMAN
Chief, SAS/Support

DDP/SAS/Personnel/John H. Martin/ket (13 Mar 63)

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee
1 - C/CPD
1 - SAS/Pers
