14-00000
104-10162-10107 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

CLASSIFIED
INTERNAL
USE ONLY
SECRET
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

13 January 1961

TO: (Officer designation, room number, building)
1. C/MH/L/CI
2. WH/L/OA
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.

FROM: WH/L/Prop

SUBJECT: (Optional)

DATE RECEIVED
DATE FORWARDED
OFFICER'S INITIALS
COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment)
In our discussions with Subject I have heard many times the doubts he had in relation to have any info which tend to substantiate this statement.
M. There are also some file in Cembddy.

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

FORM 610
1 DEC 56
USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS
SECRET ☐ CONFIDENTIAL ☐ UNCLASSIFIED

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

IB MEMO NO. 5269
10 January 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH/4
ATTENTION: Mr. Lou Napoli
SUBJECT: Transmittal of Documentation for use of Manuel Artime y Buesa
REFERENCE: Memo from WH/4, 27 December 1960

1. This is to confirm that the following Cuban documentation was handcarried on 9 January 1961 by Mr. Stanley Shultz as requested in reference:

a. Passport No. 17130
b. Vigencia (Exit Permit) JL-11041-H
c. International Certificate of Vaccination

2. The Cuban Passport contains a U.S. Non-Immigrant Visa, B-2, issued in Santiago de Cuba on 17 May 1960 and is valid until 17 May 1964. The Miami Admitted Cachet and Arrival-Departure Record I-94 were provided by I&NS and are "backstopped". You will note that I-94 form shows that subject was admitted to the U.S. on 16 June 1960 and has a valid extension of stay until March 15, 1961.

3. It is our understanding that subject will leave the U.S. "black" but will carry the above listed documentation. The documentation should be returned to TSD/IB when no longer needed for operational purposes.

CHARLES YECH, JR.
CHIEF, TSD/IB

Distribution:
Original and 1 - Addressee.
