14-00000
104-10165-10169

4/10

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

FILE RID RET. TO BRANCH
DESTROY SIC.

SECRET

MR. NAPOLI

UNIT
TIME

313126Z

31 AUG

IMMEDIATE [SCOM] INFO IMMEDIATE DIR(SNDR) CITE MAYE 5413
DYVOUR PERUMEN

REF (SDOM 674 IN 42286).

1.  PLANE PROCUREMENT PROBLEM DIFFICULT DUE SHEET DEADLINE
    BUT HAVE STARTED TRY WORK OUT SOLUTION, TRYING ARRANGE CHARTER
    IN (AMCORE-2) NAME DC-3 TYPE AIRCRAFT. HAVE AIR OFFICER USING
    CLEARED CONTACT WITH [KUBARK PROPRIETARY] AS FRONT IN TRYING
    ARRANGE CHARTER WITH OTHER OR SERVICE SUCH AS MACKEY AIRLINES.
    CLEARED CONTACT WOULD TELL SUPPLIER THAT AMCORE-2 HEAD OF
    GROUP TRAVELLING NEWSMEN STRANDED SDOM THRU PLANE FAILURE, ADD
    AMCORE-2 KNOWN TO HIM AS RELIABLE PERSON AND HE WILLING VOUCH
    FOR AMCORE-2 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND IF NECESSARY TO
    ADVANCE CHARTER PRICE. CONTACT WOULD TELL SUPPLIER AMCORE-2
    WILL ARRANGE NECESSARY LANDING, REFUELING CLEARANCES AT SDOM
    COMMERCIAL AIRPORT.

2.  IF SUCCESSFUL IN ARRANGING CHARTER, MAY WISH FOR
    COVER REASONS THAT AMCORE-2 SEND CABLE (PHONE NOT NECESSARY AND
    MIGHT CONFUSE SITUATION) TO SUPPLIER CONFIRMING REQUEST FOR
    CHARTER FLIGHT. WILL ADVISE LATER RE DETAILS.

RETURN TO CIA.

14-00000

3/08

3.  IN ORDER TRY ADD COVER AT SDOM END SUGGEST AMCORE-2
    INDICATE TO HIS PARTY THAT IMBERT PROVIDING HIM WITH FUNDS
    TO CHARTER REPLACEMENT PLANE TO GET GROUP BACK TO MIAMI.

CAN THE PASS FUNDS TO AMCORE-2.
POSSIBLY [SCOM] COULD GET IMBERT
TO BACKSTOP STORY HE GAVE MONEY TO AMCORE-2.

SECRET

CFN 5413 6745 AMCORE-2 DC-3 (KUBARK) MACKEY AIRLINES -2 THRU
-2 -2 -2 -2 NOT NECESSARY RE -2 IMBERT MIAMI -2 IMBERT -2

BT

PRIVATE Aircraft SHOULD BE OBTAINED FOR TRIP.
