Fa-0000
104-10706-10421 (2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992)

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

PAGE 1 OF 3 PAGES

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR: TELEPOUCH
OGC SUBJ: ITKIN, HERBERT
DATE - TIME GROUP
DISPATCH NUMBER: (FAMW)-4125

INDEX: 0 NO INDEX
RETURN TO: E 2 IMPDET
CL BY: 034405

TO: CHIEF OF BASE (MELBOURNE)
CHIEF OF STATION (CANBERRA)
FROM: CHIEF, EAST ASIA DIVISION

SECRET
TELEPOUCH
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

DATE: 16 NOVEMBER 1973

FYI ONLY:

2. ON 8 NOVEMBER 1973 MR. LESLIE V. JARVIS (ASIO REP) IN WASHINGTON, HAND CARRIED TO HQS A LETTER FROM AUSTRALIAN JUSTICE A. R. MOFFITT REQUESTING INFORMATION ON THE RELIABILITY OF MR. HERBERT ITKIN WHOM HE DESCRIBED AS A FORMER CIA AND FBI EMPLOYEE. THE FOLLOWING PARAGRAPHS ARE THE GIST OF MR. MOFFITT'S LETTER, WHICH WAS ADDRESSED TO "MR. WILLIAM CROSBY, (SIC) DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE:

A. MOFFITT HOLDS A COMMISSION TO INQUIRE INTO THE INFILTRATION OF ORGANIZED CRIME INTO NEW SOUTH WALES. IT IS OF SUBSTANTIAL IMPORTANCE TO HIS INQUIRY THAT HE CONSIDER EVIDENCE GIVEN DURING A COURT CASE IN ENGLAND IN JULY 1971 BY ITKIN.

B. IN HIS TESTIMONY IN ENGLAND MR. ITKIN CLAIMED TO HAVE BEEN RECRUITED BY CIA IN AN "UNDERCOVER CAPACITY" IN ABOUT 1954. HE CLAIMED HE WAS WITH THE C.I.A. UNTIL MARCH 1963 AT WHICH TIME BY SOME ARRANGEMENT HE WORKED FOR BOTH THE FBI AND CIA, UNTIL JANUARY 1968.

C. MOFFITT ASKS FOR INFORMATION ON THE STATUS OF MR. ITKIN DURING THE YEARS 1964 TO 1969 AND FOR COPIES OF ANY RELEVANT AFFIDAVITS OF PERSONS IN AUTHORITY IN THE FBI OR CIA USED IN PROCEEDINGS IN USA.

D. MOFFITT NOTED THAT IN THE INTERESTS OF PRIVACY HE ROUTED HIS LETTER VIA THE AUSTRALIAN-DIPLOMATIC POUCH, AND ASKED THAT THE REPLY BE RETURNED TO HIM BY THE AUSTRALIAN EMBASSY IN WASHINGTON.

2. MR. MOFFITT'S REQUEST WAS HANDLED BY THE OFFICE OF GENERAL COUNCIL (OGC) WHO MADE AVAILABLE FOR MR. MOFFITT COPIES OF THREE AFFIDAVITS (ALL OF WHICH IN PUBLIC DOMAIN) RELEVANT TO HERBERT ITKIN AND HIS AFFILIATION WITH THE CIA. OGC CONCLUDED THEIR REPLY BY SAYING THAT HERBERT ITKIN FURNISHED INFORMATION TO THE CIA OVER A PERIOD OF MANY YEARS, BUT THAT HE WAS NOT SENT TO ENGLAND TO COLLECT ANY INFORMATION FOR CIA AND HE DID NOT FURNISH THE CIA WITH ANY INFORMATION WHILE HE WAS IN ENGLAND.

3. OGC'S REPLY WAS SENT TO MR. MOFFITT IN THE SAME CHANNELS HIS REQUEST CAME IN. HQS POUCHING COPIES AFFIDAVITS, BOTH LETTERS.
U/S/C# VIA POUCH
E2 IMPDET.H

DATE: NOVEMBER 1973.
ORIG: ARLE
UNIT: EA/PHI/ANE
EXT: 5671/9033

COORDINATING OFFICERS:
OGC MR. GREANY (IN DRAFT)
CT MR. ROCCA (IN DRAFT)

RELEASING OFFICER: THEODORE G. SHACKLEY, C/EA

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
CROSS REFERENCE FILE NUMBER: 32-513
