14-00000

(104-10172-10105) | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: GUITART CAMPUZANO, AGUSTIN, DR.
C-727418
INCLUSIVE DATES:
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:
ROOM:
DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE | DATE | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
RECEIVED | RETURNED
4/00 | 10/06/28 | PAT ORR

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE
SECRET
THIS FOLDER IS NOT TO BE RELEASED OUTSIDE OF
CI/STAFF THE PERSON CHARGED WITH THIS FOLDER
MUST NOTIFY CI/OA(5077) IMMEDIATELY IF IT IS
TRANSFERRED TO ANOTHER GROUP WITHIN
CI/STAFF SO THAT IT MAY BE RECHARGED TO THE
PROPER PERSON, AND SO THAT THE FOLDER CAN
BE READILY LOCATED AT ANY TIME AS NEEDED.

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

SECRET C PROJECTS CARD MADE
APPROVAL WORK RECORD
19 June 1963 | 18 June 1963
GUITART Campuzano, Agustin, Dr.
201-727418
DATE OF BIRTH PLACE OF BIRTH
25 April 1910 Cardenas, Cuba
CASE OFFICER DIVISION
Carl Trettin SAS/OS
REMARKS INITIALS DATE
Nephew of 201-727417
Not Init: Subject residing in New Orleans
* Subject of prior interest to 00/C. Coordination must be effected. To other information in S.O. Files.

VARIATION
S.O.
DATE EXTENSION
7/8/63 7646
PRO
bio.
PRO II
138893
GREEN
LIST
RI
TRACES
NPR pic 26 June 63
NDI
OPS & DIV.
TRACES
FIELD
TRACES
S.O.
INDICES
FBI
INDICES
NIC
CRAA NOTICE
S.O.
INVESTIGATION
BRITTEN
S.O.
INVESTIGATION
TECHNICAL
INTERROGATION
REPORT
Coleman
Colmer 27Jusel

Records on Former German Agents Checked in C/R&A, date: 19 June 1963
NR 19 Nov 63

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

SECRET
CANCELLATION TO DIVISION
MEMORANDUM FOR: CHIEF, SAS/OS
ATTENTION: Carl Trettin
DATE: 13-Jan-1964
201-727418
The file on GUITART Campuzano, Agustin, Dr. is cancelled
and closed in CI/OA for the following reason:
Failure to submit PRQ-II as required under CSI No. 10-5 or to
indicate any further interest in obtaining approval for the operational
use of Subject.

Prior to any future use of Subject, it will be necessary to furnish
a new approval request (Form #772) to CI/OA.

(s/ Edward P. Brown
CHIEF, CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

SECRET

FORM 3-92 691 OBSOLETE PORTION 51786.

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000

SECRET
INSTRUCTION SHEET

SET UP FOR P.O.A.
EXPEDITE
INDICES
SET UP FOR CA
SPECIAL

ISSUE OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
DATE
LEASE NO.
727418
10 JAN 1964
REQUEST GREEN LIST
ISSUE PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
REQUEST RESULTS STAFF/D DOSSIER REVIEW
EXTEND POA FOR DAYS UNTIL
REVIEW STAFF/D COLLATERAL INFORMATION
REQUEST RESULTS TECHNICAL
REINSTATE POA FOR DAYS UNTIL
INTERROGATION FROM
FORWARD ATTACHMENT TO DIVISION
REVIEW SECURITY OFFICE REPORT AT CI/OA
FORWARD TO SECURITY OFFICE
REVIEW SECURITY OFFICE CONCURRENT MEMO AT CI/OA
CANCEL PER DIVISION MEMO DATED:
(No notice to Division)
CANCEL PER CI/OA (Notice to Division)
(Reason checked below, or see remarks)
REQUEST RI TRACES
REVIEW OF FBI REPORT AT CI/OA
REQUEST REVIEW OF ATTACHED REFERENCE
FILE
REQUEST OPERATIONAL AND DIVISION TRACES
REQUEST FIELD TRACES
REQUEST
POA EXPIRED
PRO I
PRO II
TICKLE
NOTICE
FIRST
SECOND
OTHER

PLEASE SUBMIT PRO I. IF WITHIN 30 DAYS, NO FURTHER INTEREST IN SUBJECT
HAS BEEN INDICATED, POA WILL BE AUTOMATICALLY CANCELLED.
FAILURE TO SUBMIT PRQ II AS REQUIRED UNDER CSI NO. 10-5 OR TO INDICATE ANY FURTHER INTEREST IN OBTAINING APPROVAL
FOR THE OPERATIONAL USE OF SUBJECT.

REMARKS
1040
7-13
7071
13 JAN 1964
CANCELLED
COPY 13 SECURITY

(s/ Edward P. Brown
(s/ Leonard W. Jate

SECRET

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000

SECRET
PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, SAS/OS - C. Trettin
NUMBER: 201 - 727418
SUBJECT: GUITART Campuzano, Agustin
REFERENCE: Your Memorandum, Dated 18 June 1963

A Provisional Operational Approval is granted for the use of this Subject
as set forth below.

A Provisional Operational Approval issued by CI Staff grants the same
authority, on a temporary basis, for the use of an individual as the authority
granted in an Operational Approval unless otherwise specified by CI/OA. It is
based, however, only on preliminary file checks and investigation and is sub-
ject to a further final review when all investigation is completed.

To process the Operational Approval, full information (completed PRQ
Parts I and II) must be submitted as soon as possible and not later than six
(6) months from this date. An Operational Approval will follow when all
investigation is completed and upon the receipt of satisfactory PRQ Parts I
and II. Cancellation must be requested if use of Subject by Interested Di-
visions ceases.

(s/ Thomas Carroll, Jr.
CHIEF
CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION
DATE: 3 July 1963

SECRET

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000

SECRET

DATE: 5 July 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director of Security
(Investigations and Support)
201-727418

(s/ Thomas Carroll, Jr.
CHIEF, CI/OA

ATTACHMENTS (IF ANY):
FBI from Jane Roman

SECRET
GROUP I
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000

SECRET
INSTRUCTION SHEET
8 JUL 1963

SET UP FOR P.O.A.
EXPEDITE
INDICES:

ISSUE OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
CASE NO.
727418
REQUEST GREEN LIST
REQUEST RESULTS STAFF/D DOSSIER REVIEW
EXTEND POA FOR DAYS UNTIL
REVIEW STAFF/D COLLATERAL INFORMATION
REQUEST RESULTS TECH.
REINSTATE POA FOR DAYS UNTIL
INTERROGATION FROM
FORWARD ATTACHMENT TO DIVISION
REVIEW OF SECURITY OFFICE REPORT AT CI/OA
FORWARD ATTACHMENT TO SECURITY OFFICE
REVIEW OF SECURITY OFFICE CONCURRENT MEMO AT CI/OA
CANCEL PER DIVISION MEMO DATED:
(No notice to division)
CANCEL PER CI/OA (Notice to division)
(See Remarks for reason)
REQUEST RI TRACES
REVIEW OF FBI REPORT AT CI/OA
REQUEST REVIEW OF ATTACHED REFERENCE
FILE
REQUEST FOR OPERATIONAL AND DIVISIONAL TRACES
REQUEST FOR FIELD TRACES
REQUEST
PRO I
PRO II
NOTICE
FIRST
SECOND
FINAL
OTHER

(s/ Edward P. Brown

SECRET

--- Page 8 ---

14-00000

SECRET
P.O.A.
18 June 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR: Notification to the Federal Bureau of Investigation
of CIA's Intent to Contact the Subject
SUBJECT: Dr. Agustin GUITART Campuzano
DOB: 25 April 1910, Cardenas, Cuba
(727418)

Based upon data submitted
identifiable Information pertaining
to your inquiry located
This is the result of a request for
an FBI file check on

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000

SECRET
TO: SAS/OS
ATTENTION: Carl Trettin
SUBJECT: GUITART Campuzano, Agustin (Dr.) C-201-727418
CCS FILE NO. 5260
CCS CASE OFFICE: Richard J. Biladrau

Central Cover Staff concurs in your proposal to use the above individual
for the purpose indicated. In keeping with the requirement placed upon Central
Cover Staff to maintain an accurate register of current nonofficial cover activity,
you are specifically requested to advise Central Cover Staff N-Official Cover
promptly by memorandum when subject has been activated.

If check mark appears here, information of interest concerning subject
is in CCS/NC files. After operational approval is received, and prior to making
arrangements for initial contact thereunder, you are specifically requested to
confer with CCS/NC concerning other Agency interests possibly affected and the
advisability of additional coordination.

DATE: 26 JUN 1963
(s/ Thomas K. Strange
SIGNATURE OF CHIEF, CCS/NC
COPY TO: CI/OA

CCS CONCURRENCE
SECRET

--- Page 10 ---

14-00000

SECRET
Date: 20 June 1963
TO: SAS/OS - C. Trettin
FROM: CHIEF, CI/OA
SUBJECT: GUITART Campuzano, Agustin
201 - 727418

IN ORDER THAT FURTHER CONSIDERATION MAY BE GIVEN YOUR REQUEST FOR APPROVAL IN THIS CASE, IT IS REQUESTED
THAT YOU FURNISH THIS OFFICE THE INFORMATION CHECKED BELOW, OR REVIEW INFORMATION AS INDICATED.

PRO I
PRO II
FIELD TRACES
RI TRACES
OPERATIONAL AND DIVISION TRACES
RESULTS OF TECHNICAL INTERROGATION
REVIEW OF STAFF/D DOSSIER
REVIEW OF STAFF/D COLLATERAL INFORMATION
REVIEW OF SECURITY OFF REPORT AT CI/OA
REVIEW OF SEC. OFF. CONCURRENCE MEMO AT CI/OA
REVIEW OF FBI REPORT AT CI/OA
REVIEW OF ATTACHED REFERENCE
OTHERS (See Remarks)
GREEN LIST
NOTICE:
FIRST
THIRD AND FINAL

REMARKS:
Please coordinate with FBI.

(s/ Thomas Carroll, Jr.

SECRET

--- Page 11 ---

14-00000

SECRET
REQUEST FOR INVESTIGATION AND (OR) NAME CHECK

TO: Deputy Director of Security
FROM: Chief, CI/Operational Approval
and Support Division
DATE: 19 June 1963
PROJECT: JMATE
SUBJECT: 201-727418

1. TYPE OF REQUEST: SPEC. ING.
2. FOR CHECK REQUESTED BY (Date): 26 June 1963
3. AREA OF SUBJECT'S ASSIGNMENT: SAS/OS New Orleans, La.
4. USE OF SUBJECT: cut-out in FL operation.

5. INVESTIGATION AND COVER
A. U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATION?
B. CIA INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATION?
C. IS SUBJECT AWARE OF U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST IN HIM?
D. IS SUBJECT AWARE OF CIA INTEREST IN HIM?
E. INDICATE ANY LIMITATIONS ON COVERAGE IN THE INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.
F. SUGGESTED "COVER PRETEXT" TO BE USED IN CONDUCTING PERSONAL INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT
G. REASON FOR NO INVESTIGATION OUTSIDE CIA (Explain fully)

6. TRACES
NDI
7. DIVISION TRACES
NDI
8. FIELD TRACES
Not Init: Subject residing in New Orleans
9. GREEN LIST INITIATED

10. ATTACHMENTS:
PRO PART
PARTIAL BIO.
OTHER: P. O. A.

(s/ Thomas Carroll, Jr.

SECRET

--- Page 12 ---

14-00000

SECRET
INSTRUCTION SHEET
DATE: 19 JUN 1963

SET UP FOR P. O. A.
26 June 63

ISSUE OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
REQUEST "GREEN LIST"
ISSUE PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
REQUEST RESULTS STAFF/D DOSSIER REVIEW
EXTEND POA FOR DAYS UNTIL
REVIEW STAFF/D COLLATERAL INFORMATION
REQUEST RESULTS TECH
REINSTATE POA FOR DAYS UNTIL
INTERROGATION FROM
FORWARD ATTACHMENT TO DIVISION
REVIEW OF SECURITY OFFICE REPORT AT CI/OA
FORWARD ATTACHMENT TO SECURITY OFFICE
REVIEW OF SECURITY OFFICE CONCURRENT MEMO AT CI/OA
CANCEL PER DIVISION MEMO DATED:
(No notice to division)
CANCEL PER CI/OA (Notice to division)
(See Remarks for reason)
REQUEST RI TRACES
REVIEW OF FBI REPORT AT CI/OA
REQUEST REVIEW OF ATTACHED REFERENCE
FILE
REQUEST FOR OPERATIONAL AND DIVISIONAL TRACES
REQUEST FOR FIELD TRACES
REQUEST
PRO I
PRO II
OTHER

REMARKS:
How Intern
cut out.
in
New Orleans, La.
F1 operation
To
SAS:
Please coordinate with FBI

(s/ Edward P. Brown

SECRET

--- Page 13 ---

14-00000

SECRET
REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OR INVESTIGATIVE ACTION

TO: CI/Operational Approval and Support Division
Security Support Division/Office of Security
FROM: Wendell Ullery
SAS/ICS
DATE: 18 Jun 63
PROJECT: JMATE
SUBJECT: Dr. Agustin GUITART Campuzano

1. TYPE ACTION REQUESTED:
PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
PROVISIONAL COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL
COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL
COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL FOR LIAISON WITH U.S.
OFFICIALS
PROVISIONAL PROPRIETARY APPROVAL
PROPRIETARY APPROVAL
NAME CHECK
SPECIAL INQUIRY (SO field investigation)

2. SPECIFIC AREA OF USE: New Orleans, La.

3. FULL DETAILS OF USE:
FI Asset - for use as cut-out to/uncle, Rene GUITART Rodriguez,
(201-727417) who is residing in Cuba.
NOTE: 00/C has contacted Subject, but has no current interest.

4. INVESTIGATION AND COVER
A. U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATION?
B. CIA INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATION?
C. IS SUBJECT AWARE OF U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST IN HIM?
D. IS SUBJECT AWARE OF CIA INTEREST IN HIM?
E. INDICATE ANY LIMITATIONS ON COVERAGE IN THE INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.
F. SUGGEST "COVER PRETEXT" TO BE USED IN CONDUCTING PERSONAL INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.
G. IF NO INVESTIGATION OUTSIDE CIA, EXPLAIN FULLY

5. PRO AND GREEN LIST STATUS
PRO I. OR EQUIVALENT. IN (2) COPIES ATTACHED
PRO II. OR EQUIVALENT. IN (1) COPY ATTACHED
PRO II WILL BE FORWARDED
GREEN LIST ATTACHED, NO! 138893

6. RI TRACES
NO RECORD
WILL FORWARD
DEROGATORY
DEROGATORY ATTACHED

7. DIVISION TRACES
NO RECORD
WILL FORWARD
DEROGATORY
DEROGATORY ATTACHED

8. FIELD TRACES
NO RECORD
NO DEROGATORY INFO.
LIST SUBMITTED
SUBMITTED (Explanation)
SOILL CARD
DIARY ATTACHED

Subject residing in New Orleans

(s/ Carl Trettin

SECRET

--- Page 14 ---

14-00000

SECRET
prq part II

NAME: Dr. Agustin GUITART Campuzano
DOB: 25 April 1910, Cardenas, Cuba
RESIDENCE: 4009 Elba St., New Orleans 25, La.
OCCUPATION: Doctor of Science (Mathematics & Physics)
Presently teaching at Xavier University in
New Orleans.
EMPLOYMENT HIST.: Formerly a Prof. at the Univ. of Havana
Served as Minister of Education during the early
part of Carlos PRIO's tenure as head of the Cuban
Gov't.
COURT RECORD: Was imprisoned on the Isle of Pines during
MACHADO's term. (date unknown)
SPOUSE: Helena TORO
CHILDREN: Agustin, Jorge, Vilma Helena, William
CUBAN ADDRESS: Havana, Calle 64 No. 1502
NOTE: Subject arrived in the U.S.A. in Feb. 1962 thru
Opa Locka, Fla. where he was debriefed by 00/C.
DO/C has no current interest in Subject.

SECRET
