104-10073-10113

TO: Director of Special Investigations
Inspector General
USAP
Attention: Mr. Gilbert R. Lavy
FROM: Deputy Director, Plans

SUBJECTS: LING Lindsey
REINER Heinz Theodor

1. Reference is made to the telephone request dated 24 February 1961, of Major Malone for information concerning Lindsey LING and Heinz Theodor *FINER. The files contain the following information concerning the subjects of your request.

2. According to information from an official Portuguese service, LING was contacted in late August 1960 in Santa Maria, the Azores, by Eloy GUTIERREZ Manoyo, a Cuban National, and Rafael (probably Rafael HERNANDEZ), a Cuban diplomat. In 1958 and 1959, GUTIERREZ was reliably reported, by other sources, to have been a military supporter of Fidel CASTRO's revolution and to be employed by CASTRO possibly as a G-2 agent. In August 1959 he had infiltrated the ranks of certain anti-CASTRO conspirators and delivered the leaders up to the Cuban Government.

3. The Portuguese service further reported in September 1960 that Lindsey LING, aka LING Lind Sey, was the manager of a Chinese restaurant located at rua Valverde 9, Madrid, Spain, and that the restaurant was owned by a second (unidentified) Chinese, who was also supplying clothing to the United States personnel at the Lajes Base in the Azores. Theodor Heinz WEINER, who had represented the clothing firm in the Azores, was reportedly arrested there in December 1958 on a suspicion of espionage, and was, as of September 1960, reportedly in Bermuda, where LING was planning to go to investigate setting up another restaurant.

4. The files contain no further information concerning Subjects than that which is already believed to be contained in your files.

CSCI-3/764,141
RID/CE: JWE/RO/jre (2-7/2)
Based on: OFPH-29605, 13 Jan. 61
LISB-1827 (IN 12873), 15 Sept. 60
