14-00000
104-10173-10078 [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

SECRET
17 June 1963

CONTACT REPORT: VASLOUCH/2, DI UBALDO, and DORENOSE
DATES: 19 & 20 May 1963
PLACE: Sands Hotel
Miami Beach, Florida

1. DORENOSE and DI UBALDO arrived by taxi at the Sands Hotel at approximately 2330 hours and in the lobby passed the Subject, her traveling companion, Mrs. DI SILVA (mother of Brazilian charge, CAMBOA) and Mr. & Mrs. Kurt PLASTERER (See Contact Report dated 3 May 1963) with whom they had spent the evening. While the two case officers were negotiating rooms with the desk clerk, VASLOUCH/2 made a point of asking for her key which indicated her room number and the case officers were therefore able to get rooms on the floor just below hers.

(NOTE: Our contacts with VASLOUCH/2 were dependent upon the amount of time she could spend away from her unwitting traveling companion.) As previously arranged, DI UBALDO went to the Subject's hotel room at 0700 hours the next morning and brought her to his room where the debriefing took place. At the outset DORENOSE was introduced as William Cline and it was explained that DI UBALDO was moving out of the operation. This initial meeting which lasted until 0900 hours was confined primarily to two topics; one, VASLOUCH/1's contact with and cultivation of Francisco SANCHEZ who is charged with road building projects in Oriente Province and who is a close associate of Dr. Rene VALLEJO, a key adviser to CASTRO and two, the recent social cultivation of the VASLOUCHES by an officer of the Soviet Embassy.

The facts developed on the second subject are as follows: For several years VASLOUCH/2 had been contacted at the Brazilian Embassy by Valentine S. LOGUINOV, an attache at the Soviet Embassy. These contacts took place every two or three months when LOGUINOV would bring visa requests from his Embassy. The last of these business contacts was in February of this year. On 27 April, while VASLOUCH/2 was in Mexico City, LOGUINOV phoned the Brazilian Embassy asking for VASLOUCH/2 and when informed that she was not in, requested her home phone number (unlisted) from the girl answering the phone, Hilda BOLIVAR (girl friend of SANCHEZ). The girl refused to give out the number. At 1600 hours on 1 May, LOGUINOV apparently having acquired the number from the consular list, called VASLOUCH/2 at her home only to be told that VASLOUCH/2 was working that morning at the Brazilian Embassy. He finally got VASLOUCH/2 on the telephone at 1600 hours and stated that the date was an important holiday for him and that he wished to visit the VASLOUCHES with his family to bring a small present for VASLOUCH/2. LOGUINOV and family arrived at VASLOUCH/2's home at 1800 hours and stayed until 2100 hours. The present was a bottle of "Red Moscow" perfume. The evening was confined to small talk.

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET
On 3 May, LOGUINOV again called and made a dinner date with VASLOUCH/2 and her husband for 10 May. LOGUINOV and wife picked up the VASLOUCHES in their private car and the evening (2130-0030) was spent at the Capri Restaurant. Because of the noise from the floor show, again little of note was discussed. The cost of the meal was approximately $10. At the restaurant, LOGUINOV invited the VASLOUCHES to attend a reception and showing of the Soviet passenger plane, TU-114, to be held at 1230 on 14 May. VASLOUCH/2 did not attend because she was leaving for Miami. When VASLOUCH/1 telephoned VASLOUCH/2 in Miami on 17 May, he mentioned, in German, that Valentine had again dropped by.

From these contacts with LOGUINOV the following had been observed by VASLOUCH/2. He is approximately 32 years old, speaks fluent Spanish with just a slight accent and a little English. He has been in Cuba three years and was fluent in Spanish when he arrived. He is approximately 6 feet tall, weighs about 185 lbs., strongly built, has blue eyes, blond wavy hair, concave forehead, good teeth, and dresses well with coat and tie. He drives himself in an American car (Dodge?) with non-diplomatic plates. He smokes and drinks in moderation. He has a three and one half year old son, an eleven year old daughter and his parents and his wife's parents are living in Moscow. His wife's name is Alexandria, she is attractive and works in the consular office. Her English is poor. He was aware that VASLOUCH/2 had visited Mexico recently and also knew that the VASLOUCHES daughter was with the Brazilian Embassy in Moscow. Also that VASLOUCH/1 had recently been back to Finland.

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET
One thing that stayed in V/2's mind was that in conversation with LOGUINOV he referred on three occasions to the possibility that their daughter might very well marry a Russian, a point that might relate to any operational approach LOGUINOV may make to the VASLOUCHES. V/2 stated that LOGUINOV was the only one that had ever come to the Brazilian Embassy regarding visas. She also stated that over the past years she has called his office four or five times regarding visas and has never been able to reach him. V/2 also recalled that during their outing at the Capri Restaurant LOGUINOV stated that he was planning to rent a beach house and was looking forward to the VASLOUCHES spending time with him and his wife there during the summer months. V/1 inquired as to the whereabouts of the former PRAVDA correspondent, Borovsky, and was told he was in Moscow.

2. The Finnish Ambassador in Washington has been kept informed on LOGUINOV's advances toward the SLOUCHES. His only comment at this point was that "they are after something." V/2 has advised CAMBOA whose reaction has been to encourage the relationship in hopes of acquiring some political information from LOGUINOV. The Finnish Ambassador also stated in his telephone conversation with V/2 in Miami that he had requested that the SLOUCHES installation be elevated and given diplomatic status. He expressed surprise that a copy of his letter to the Cuban Foreign Ministry had not been received by V/1 and promised a special delivery copy of it to V/2 in Miami. Relating to this, V/2 stated to the C/O that in one of V/1's meetings with CORONA of the Foreign Office, CORONA stated that he was requesting Helsinki to raise the status of its representation in Havana and to post a charge there. V/2 was told by the C/O that after checking with Headquarters concerning LOGUINOV's background, specific guidance on how to handle the relationship would be forthcoming.

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET
3. From SANCHEZ, V/1 elicited road building information which he had put on an overlay which was passed by V/2 (sent to SAS Reports). SANCHEZ had invited V/1 to Oriente Province with him in the near future to see some of his projects. Reluctantly we instructed V/2 to tell V/1 to turn down the invitation on grounds of ill health but to leave the way open for a similar invitation in the future. It was thought that this was best until we could assess LOGUINOV's interest in the VASLOUCHES. V/2 also passed the war names V/1 had assigned to his principal contacts and a diagram of the Brazilian Embassy including measurements of the out building which DI UBALDO had discussed with V/2 in Mexico City relating to its possible use as a dead drop. A pamphlet entitled, List of Exports and Imports of Cuban Foreign Trade Enterprises, also was passed (Sent to SAS/Reports). A list of names passed showed numbers and some other data on those passengers which had departed Cuba in two Cubana flights to Brazil for the purpose of picking up the Cuban sports team in Brazil (sent to SAS/Reports).

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET
4. On 19 May DI UBALDO returned to Washington. DORENOSE met with V/2 on 20 May, from 0700 - 0900 hours. At this meeting, V/2 was given the KEYWAY sterile phone number and told that all future contact should be made to Cline using this number. She was also given our initial assessment of the significance of LOGUINOV's approach (the traces from Headquarters had still not been received). In our opinion there were three possibilities and two of them were unlikely. First, LOGUINOV's approach could be an innocent one and be merely for the purpose of establishing a friendship, an extension of this thought would be the possibility of his interest in defecting. Given the age difference in the two couples and weighing other factors, this was considered unlikely. The second possibility is that the Soviets have been alerted, possibly by V/1's open code cable to Finland, to the SLOUCHES possible involvement with the Americans. This also is unlikely for had this been the case the last thing the Soviets would wish to do would be to alert the SLOUCHES to the fact that they were under suspicion and therefore bring about a cut in their activities. (COMMENT: LOGUINOV's sudden and fairly intensive cultivation effort has had just this effect.) The third and more likely possibility is that the Soviets are cultivating V/2 for use as a penetration of the Brazilian Embassy. V/2 accepted the case officer's assessment as valid and in keeping with her own thoughts.

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET
She was told that final guidance on this matter would be given her at a subsequent meeting to be held in the afternoon after DORENOSE had received the Headquarters traces. The discussion then went to the communications.

6. When the Subject stated that her husband was unable to bring out either the pads or his instructions on how to use the pads which had been given him in New York, it was decided to issue two reduced size OTP's concealed in a shaving kit. S/W instructions on the use of the OTP would be passed by BARKER in Mexico City. She was told that BARKER would be in the lobby of the Hilton Hotel in Mexico City at 0730 on 23 May. When they have recognized each other she should follow him from the Hotel. If BARKER is unable to make the contact he is to telephone her later in the day using the name BETO. Subject was told that we were unable to come up, as yet, with an extended dual-earphone set which she had requested, but this would be available for the next contact later in the summer.

7. Toward the end of the meeting, Subject passed translations she had made of notes given her by V/1 which he believed to be of intelligence interest. (They are included as Attachment A). Unfortunately, DORENOSE was unable to review these reports with her but she was persuaded to turn over Finnish language notes and the carbon copy of V/1's letter to his ambassador (a translation of which is Attachment B). The C/O requested the name of a person in Helsinki who would have reason to write to V/1 but who is not doing so at present time. She gave the name of V/1's aunt, Kaisa RAIKKONEN. She was told that some of the incoming S/W in the future would be written in Finnish, mailed in Helsinki, and ostensibly come from this person.

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET
Subject stated that she would depart Miami by Guest Airlines on 22 May 1963. The meeting was conducted hurriedly and necessarily concluded at 0900 hours. Plans were made for the Subject to return for a brief contact with DORENOSE between 1430 and 1600 hours after finding some excuse to get away from her companion.

8. Subject was unable to break away from her companion in time to make the scheduled meeting and when she telephoned to so notify DORENOSE she was erroneously informed by the hotel desk that DORENOSE had checked out. After some difficulty, DORENOSE was able to contact her and a brief meeting was held at 2100 hours. It was at this meeting that instructions were given V/2 to tighten up on their security citing the dangers of audio-surveillance and the necessity for great care when mailing the letters out. For her benefit, KUBARK security in dealing with her case was emphasized. She was also instructed to react with disbelief combined with indignation if a recruitment pitch was made to either of them. She was also urged not to encourage further social contact with the LOGUINOV's in hopes that LOGUINOV would lose interest. She was advised that her daughter should be encouraged to leave Moscow if the Brazilian Ambassador is transferred in late fall. If this does not come off, when V/2 visits her daughter in the fall she should attempt, under some pretext, to have her daughter leave Russia. The case officer was careful not to alarm V/2 and to convey the impression that her daughter's present plight had no relation to her intelligence involvement with ODYOKE. On the contrary, she was very fortunate to have us to advise her on how best to deal with her problem.

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET
V/2 was concerned about her daughter because her daughter had not socially with an OCACID officer in Moscow named Richard Jacobs who has also been approached by the Soviets. When asked about other contacts of her daughter's in Moscow she stated that her daughter was in love with one of the UAR Embassy secretaries who had left Moscow and was presently assigned in Tokyo. She mentioned that another UAR secretary stationed in Moscow named SALAH and the Consular, Asia Haase were acquaintances. Also a secretary of the Mexican Embassy named Areando CANTU. She mentioned that during her scheduled fall visit to see her daughter she had promised to take her daughter to Tokyo to visit her boy friend. This was complicated however because this would infuriate V/1 who is strongly against the daughter marrying a Moslem. Subject was given $50 to off-set taxi fares, the cost of an antenna, and for good will. The meeting was concluded at 2107 when Mrs. DI SILVA was scheduled to get out of the bathtub. Two other names of possible interest were raised by V/2 during the contact. Ella BONKASALA, a Finnish female student in Havana and a rabid Communist and John RETTI, an English national met by V/2 in Mexico City. RETTI, a writer for the "Economist" and an employee of the BBC was once married to a Finn. RETTI was being assigned in Havana. His address in Mexico City: P.O. 1642 Mexico City 1, Mexico. Telephone number, 14-52-25.

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET

Source: Planea Nogueras Figero (subsource not indicated).
Spare parts from England are sent to Monterey (Mexico), then to Yucatan and after that to Isles Majeras and from there the Cuban fisherman take them to the Isle of Pines.

2. Source: Francisco Sanchez, Cuban road construction engineer - in discussing procurement of replacement parts for his equipment stated if the Americans have a subsidiary factory, for example Caterpillar, with a factory in Europe, the spare parts are sent to East Germany and from there to Cuba.

3. Source: Blanca - The Headquarters of the Russians is in a tunnel at 36th Street, No. 62 on the corner of Street 39. It has own entrances, one from the river and the other from the house of M. J. Diaz.

4. Source: Blanca - There is a flushing in San Antonio de los Baños.

5. Source: Blanca - A former National Assembly (Note: or Cuban equivalent) member, 17 Nadrazo, stated that the refugee ship that went to Florida on 29 Apr carried two government agents, Jose Diaz (el cojo) and his wife Yolanda Cisneros, whose address is No. 7414 Avenue 15.

6. Orlando Puente, the private secretary of former President Prio, approached CAMBOA's mother in Miami on 1 May stating that before she departed the country he would give her the name of a Cuban associate of Prio who is in much trouble and wants asylum in the Brazilian Embassy.

7. Source: VASLOUCH/1 - on 4 May Eduardo Corona, Chief of the Occidental European Countries Office stated to SLOUCH/1 that he planned in the near future to give a luncheon for the Northern European diplomats and at that luncheon he would propose that the Northern countries put on an exposition in Cuba covering each countries cultural and economic achievements.

SECRET
