2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
104-10074-10007

Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation

Reference is made to your letter of 11 June 1947 requesting information on policy matters discussed by Foster and certain members of the Central Committee of the French Communist organisation in Paris. I should like to advise the action that stations on Foster's itinerary were alerted during the British Conference on Foster's contacts and conversations with foreign communists.

The first reaction from Paris reported Foster's meeting with Thorez and Duclos on 7 March and a planned meeting for the next day with other members of the Central Committee (this information was distributed to you).

To follow up on this original report, the fact to be accounted for primarily represents hesitation of the Surete Nationale, for political reasons, to give Foster's visit adequate investigative attention (as included in #B-1777 of 1 July 1947). No adequate follow up was subsequently produced.

Information on the policy matters discussed at this meeting, however, is included in a report from 1.1.6, Section V, in May (copy and enclosure herewith). Although the source of this report did not know what happened at this meeting "because great secrecy was observed," he states that the meeting allegedly included several specific topics of discussion. This report was not forwarded to you directly to your London station since it was assumed the information had been passed to you.

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

MICROFILMED
EX - 10446

REF FORM FILED
MAY 6 - 1955
DATE 8 DEC 1952
IN: 201-3141
201-53438

BY: Pittman
ENCL: 211V

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

The attention of our Paris station has been directed to the actual conversations that took place in this Paris meeting, and there remains a possibility that a verification or expansion of the 1.1.6 report will be obtained. Such additional information will be transmitted to you immediately upon its receipt.

Sincerely,

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

COUNTRY: Italy/Yugoslavia/France/St. Britain/USA
SUBJECT: William Zebulon FOSTER
ORIGIN: [London]
DATE OF INFO: As stated
DATE: May 15, 1947

On 15.3.47, our representative in Rome reported that FOSTER had arrived there on 14.3.47 for a stay of a few days.

On 1.4.47 heard from Belgrade that according to local press reports of 25.3.47, FOSTER had left Jugoslavia on 24.3.47. No details were given regarding his destination, but the press report mentioned that he had been accompanied by Tim BUCK, Leader of the Labour Progressive Party of Canada.

A report dated 1.4.47 from Paris, stated that after the British Communist Party Congress in London, several important delegates had arrived in Paris among whom were William Z. FOSTER, Tim BUCK, LAHAUT, Chief of the Belgian Communist Party, who had not been in London, and who arrived direct from Brussels and Harry POLLITT. At the same time several Communist delegates at the W.I.D.P. Congress in Prague, had also arrived including Nine POPOVA, the U.S.S.R. delegate, and delegates from Greece, Brazil, Cuba, and Viet Nam. Our source, however, does not know names of any except those mentioned.

Several meetings were held at the Headquarters of the Central Committee of the French Communist Party at 44, rue Le Peletier. At one of these meetings the following were known to have been present: William FOSTER, Tim BUCK, Dolores IBARRURI, Nina POPOVA, Maurice THOREZ, Andre MARTY, Jacques DUCLOS, SAUVAIS, CACHIE, BERLIORACHON, MONMOUSSEAU, PASON, Robert REMY, and also George MILLIAIS GAMICHAILOV, Comintern Delegate.

John PITTMAN, Paris correspondent of the American Daily Worker, had acted as interpreter. Although our source does not know much of what happened at this meeting because great secrecy was observed, he states that the meeting was concerned with uniting of world democratic forces against international reaction. In this connection, the French Communist leaders are said to have very much regretted the difficulty of bringing about the union between the American Federation of Labour, and the Congress of Industrial Organizations in the U.S.A.

(ENCL.)
SECRET

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000

Jacques DUCLOS made a special report emphasizing that this was one of the most important tasks to be carried out by the Communists within the C.I.O.

Besides the above, the question of Greece and Turkey was discussed, notably the question of boycotting of war materials sent to those countries.

Finally, the different speakers spoke of the necessity of defending the U.S.S.R. by all possible means.

Andre MARTY is said to have specially dealt with the question of Labour in the colonies, emphasising the necessity of bringing about unity of action among the black, throughout the African Continent, e. g., in French, British and Belgian possessions.

The above, according to our source, were the principal points which had been studied during the various meetings of Communist chiefs in Paris.

We understand that all other details about FOSTER's arrival and departure from this country have already been passed to you by I.I.5.
