```markdown
14-00000

104-10266-10026 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
SECRET
When Filled In
22 JAN 1975
(date)

Review of 201 File on U.S. Citizen

In accordance with the DDO's notice of 9 December 1974,
I have reviewed the 201 file on COBB
(surname)
(201 number indicated below), and have determined that it can
most accurately be categorized as indicated below:

[ ] should be closed.

[ ] witting collaborator. OI Code A1.

[ ] potential witting collaborator; date opened

OI Code A2.
[ ] former witting collaborator (relationship terminated).

OI Code A3.

[ ] potential witting collaborator never contacted (security
reasons, derogatory information). OI Code A4.

[ ] counterintelligence case (i.e., involving a foreign
intelligence or security service). OI Code A5.

[X] all others. OI Code A6.

Signed LA/M/A
B Officer
name
(component)

This assignment of category has been entered into STAR.

Signed (S) FEB 1975
(initials) (date)

This document is a permanent part of this file.

201-278841
SECRET
E2 IMPDET
CL BY 054979
When Filled In

14-00000
SECRET
CASE OFFICER CHECK LIST

PROJECT
CRYPT/PSEUDO: LICOOKY/1 (Joyce H. PINEINCH) 201-278841 (7 vol.)
AREA/BASE WH/ New York C/O: aka:
I. TRACES
Base: Req'd by Base: DO Base/N.Y.-3219, 1 Aug 67
Other: Req'd by
(For local traces) (Specify)
Reply to Base: Hgs: ch
II. CLEARANCES
POR : Req'd DO Base/N.Y.-3219 Granted
PRQ I fw'd to CI/CA 3 Aug 67
PCSA : Green List # 282786-st Req'd Granted
CSA : Req'd Granted Complete PRQs I & II fw'd
CNC : Req'd Granted
OTHER : Req'd Granted
(Specify)
SGSWIRL :
III. SPECIAL APPROVALS/CONCURRENCES
A/WOMACE : Req'd Granted
LYERGO : Req'd Granted
OTHER Field Office Coordination. DCS: #039, 3 Aug 67
(Specify)
IV. CONTRACTS
Type: BP, Date & Term
Secrecy Agreement: Termination Date
V. ACCOMMODATION ADDRESS: ACCOMMODATION TELEPHONE:
(Describe briefly) (Describe briefly)
VI DOMESTIC ASSETS INVENTORY
Fw'd Hqs. Rec'd
VII. TERMINATION OF INTEREST
Date Hqs. Notified
Reasons for Termination:
Clearance Cancelled:
Secrecy Agreement:
Quit Claim:
SECRET

14-00000
SECRET
(When Filled In)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE
SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT COBB, Viola June
5. ANALYST
14. DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION
3 DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.
4. DATE
SOURCE CRYPTO DATE OF INFO. EVALUATION
6. DATE PROCESSED
3. DISSEMINATED
11. DATE
12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE
DOCUMENT DEPOSITION
13. TRANSFERRED TO
R FILE NO.
PERTINENT INFORMATION
THERE IS A RESTRICTED CI/OA FOLDER ON THE SUBJECT
OF THIS 201 HELD UNDER C# 8349
15. FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.
FORM 867 PREVIOUS EDITIONS
SECRET
B-57
201-278841
201-278841
201-278841
(7-86)

14-0000
SECRET

11 October 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR: Contract Personnel Division

VIA : WH/Personnel, Attention: Mr. Renehan

SUBJECT : Joyce C. PINEINCH (201-278841)

1. Subject has been terminated effective 1 July 1966
by the Mexico City Station. She was paid her salary through
30 June and was given her income tax refund for the
period 1 January 1965 through 30 June 1966. A copy of the
termination Secrecy Oath, signed in true name, is on file
in Subject's official 201 file.

2. It is requested that the CPD and Office of Finance
files be altered to reflect the termination of Subject.

W. J. Kaufman
C/WH/1

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Contract Personnel
cc - WH/Personnel
cc - WH/1 Chrono
cc - PINEINCH file (201-278841)

SECRET

14-00000

22 AUG 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR: Domestic Operations/WH
Director, Domestic Contacts Service

SUBJECT : Miss Viola June Cobb, born 24 August 1927, Ponca,
Oklahoma

Background:

1. On 22 or 23 September 1965 Miss June Cobb contacted the New
York Base Contacts Service through Irene Gardevitch of the Vision
Magazine, trying to establish contact in New York with CIA to pass
along some information. WH/1 chose not to establish contact with
Miss Cobb at that time, even though she was a cleared CIA agent in
contact with the Mexico City Station.

Recent Developments:

2. Miss Cobb was terminated effective 1 July 1966 and was paid
her salary through 30 June and given money for one-way air fare to
New York City. She was completely satisfied with the financial terms
of the settlement and signed a Termination Secrecy Oath. Although she
was terminated for lack of access and production, there was also
considerable newspaper publicity in May 1966 in the Mexico City news-
papers wherein Subject was attacked because of her connection with an
anti-Communist meeting, the Latin American Conference to Study the
Situation of the Jewish Minority in the Soviet Union. In this pub-
licity Subject was labeled as being closely connected with U. S.
Government Police, and also as an agent of the FBI and INTERPOL. She
was also accused of working for a newspaperman Daniel James who was
described as being responsible to CIA.

3. Miss Cobb planned to return to New York in July where she was
to look for a job. Subject had been told previously by the Mexico
City Station that the telephone number of the New York CIA office is listed
in the directory and she could call that office if contact were necessary
while she was in the United States, but that she should only establish
contact for an important or urgent matter. Since Miss Cobb tends to
SECRET

14-00000
SECRET

liberally apply importance to a wide variety of events and subjects,
and since she is likely to be short of money shortly after arriving, WH
Division believes there is a possibility she may try to establish
contact.

Suggested Actions:

4. WH Division suggests that you may wish to forward a copy of this
memorandum to your New York office. If Miss Cobb does establish contact,
we would appreciate your office interviewing her to accept whatever
information she might wish to contribute, but that no financial
commitments be made on our behalf. WH Division plans to have no direct
contact unless the information provided would appear to merit a special
interview.

William V. Broe
Chief
Western Hemisphere Division

Distribution:
O & 1 - DO/WH
cc - D/DCS
cc - LICOOKY-1 201-278841
cc - WH/1/Mexico Chrono

SECRET

14-00000
SECRET

FROM: (Division) (Case officer) (Extension)
WH/1 Lee Peterson
SUBJECT'S NAME (Pseudo, crypt or true may be used) NAME SHOWN IS
LICOOKY/1
PROJECT
LICOOKY
DATE OF BIRTH PLACE OF BIRTH AGENT'S SERVICE RECORD
24 Aug 1927 Ponca, Okla, USA ATTACHED
REASON(S) FOR CANCELLATION
LICOOKY-1 was terminated effective 1 July 1966. The last meeting with her
was on 23 June, she was paid salary through June, and she was completely
satisfied with the financial terms of the settlement.

In view of subject's personality, and the broad publicity in mid-1966
(see 201 file) of accusations that Subject was connected with U.S.
intelligence in Mexico, any use of Subject should be made only after careful
considerations.

See copy of HMMA 29461, Mexico City Station termination report, attached.

FORM 937 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITION.
2-58
SECRET

14-00000

Chief of Station, Mexico City
SUBJECT: LICOOKY Project
Termination of LICOOKY-1

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

ACTION REQUIRED: FYI

1. Attached herewith is the LILINK report on the
termination of LICOOKY-1. This report was received from
LILINK on 14 July 1966.

2. Forwarded under separate cover are two copies of
the Secrecy and Termination Agreement signed by LICOOKY-1,
in true name, on 23 June 1966.

3. At the time of termination, LICOOKY-1 was given (a)
salary for one month, (b) air fare from Mexico
City to New York, and (c) Federal Tax refund amounting to
$9,005.00 MX. The household items in her possession at the
time of termination, which belonged to the Station, were
sold to her for US $300.00.

4. It should be noted that although LICOOKY-1 claims
she intends to remain in the United States, she retained her
apartment, which was turned over to a rental agency for sub-
renting. The Station believes that she intends to return
within the next several months or so should it develop that
she cannot find suitable work in the New York area. Should
she do so on her own it may be that the Station would want
to make occasional use of her, and for that purpose a post
office box to which she can write to initiate contact was
given her prior to departure.

(CONTINUED)

Attachment:
A. C/ LILINK Report
B. O.S.C. 2 cys Secrecy Agreement

Distribution:
Orig & 2 - C/WH w/atts

HMMA-29461 14 July 1966
SECRET

14-00000
SECRET

5. Headquarters will be advised should the Station
have additional contact with her.

Willard C. CURTIS

14-00000

I, about to terminate my
association with the Organization. realize that, by virtue of my duties
with the Organization, I have been the recipient of information and intelligence
which concerns the present and future security of our country. I am aware that
the unauthorized disclosure of such information is prohibited by the espionage
laws of our government which specifically requires the protection of intelligence
sources and methods from unauthorized disclosure. Accordingly, I SOLEMNLY SWEAR,
WITHOUT MENTAL RESERVATION OR PURPOSE OF EVASION, AND IN THE ABSENCE OF DURESS,
AS FOLLOWS:

1. I will never divulge, publish, or reveal by writing, word, conduct, or otherwise,
any information relating to the national defense and security and particularly
information of this nature relating to intelligence sources, methods, personnel,
fiscal data, or security measures to anyone, including, but not limited to, any
future governmental or private employer, private citizen, or government
employee or official without the express written consent of the Chief of the
Organization or his authorized representative.

2. I have been invited to submit in writing any monetary claims I may have
against the Organization or our government which may in any way necessitate
the disclosure of information described herein. I have been advised that
any such claims will receive full legal consideration. In the event, however,
that I am not satisfied with the decisions of the Organization concerning any
present or future claims I may submit, I will not take any other action to
obtain satisfaction without prior written notice to the Organization, and
then only in accordance with such legal and security advice as the Organization
will promptly furnish me.

3. I do not have any documents or materials in my possession, classified
or unclassified, which are the property of, or in custodial responsibility
of the Organization, having come into my possession as a result of my duties
with the Organization or otherwise.

4. During my exit processing and during my period of employment with the
Organization I have been given an opportunity to report all information about
the Organization, its personnel, and its operations which I consider should
receive official cognizance. Hence, I am not aware of any information which
it is my duty, in the national interest, to disclose to the Organization, nor
am I aware of any violations or breaches of security which I have not officially
reported, except as set forth on the reverse side of this sheet or on other
attachments.

SECRET 201-278841

14-0000

5. I have been advised that, in the event I am called upon by the properly
constituted authorities to testify or provide information then I am pledged
hereby not to disclose, I will notify the Organization immediately; I will also
advise said authorities of my secrecy commitments to our government and will
request that my right or need to testify be established before I am required to
do so.

6. I am aware of the provisions and penalties of the espionage laws of our
government and am fully aware that any violation on my part of certain matters
sworn to by me under this oath subject me to prosecution under the terms
of these laws, and that violation of other portions of this oath are subject
to appropriate action, including such dissemination of the violation as the
circumstances warrant.

I have read and understand the contents of this oath and voluntarily affix my
signature hereto with the full knowledge that this oath was executed for
the mutual benefit of myself and our government, and that it will be retained
in the files of the Organization for its future use or for reference by me
at any time in the future that I may be requested or ordered to testify or
disclose any of the matters herein.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have set my hand and seal this 23 day of
June 1966.

Witnessed by me this 23 day of June 1966.
at Mexico City, Mexico

SECRET

14-00000

Draft of Dispatch

1. LICOOKY-1 has been terminated effective 1 July 1966.
The last meeting with her was held on 23 June. She was
paid her salary through 30 June, her income tax refund
for the period 1 January 1965 - 30 June 1966 and given
money for one-way air fare to New York City. She was
completely satisfied with the financial terms of the
settlement. A Termination Secrecy Oath, signed in true
name, was obtained.

3. L-1 plans to return to New York on or about 1 July. She
said she will look for a job there, and is confident she
will have no difficulty obtaining one. She does not yet
know where she will be living.

L-1 is subletting the apartment she occupies' here. She
has purchased the KUBARK-owned household effects which
had been loaned to her for that apartment. For this
reason, in addition to the fact that she has acquired
many close friends and interests here as a result of five
years residence, the Station expects that she will return
to Mexico, although she insists she has no plans to do
so.

14-0000
4. She was given a post office box address to use to contact
the Station in the event that she does return to Mexico
and feels it necessary to do so. But no committment was
made to her regarding any future contact or payment for
information.

5. She was previously told that the telephone number of the
New York KUBARK office is listed in the directory and
she could call that office if contact were necessary while
she was in the United States. She asked if that would
still be the case and was told that it was but only to
attempt such contact for an important or urgent matter.
But since she tends to liberally apply importance to a
wide variety of events and subjects, and since she is
likely to be short of money shortly after arriving, it
would not be surprising if she did try to establish such
contact.

14-0000
SECRET
21 June 1966
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH Division
SUBJECT : Request for Termination of Project LICOOKY

The L'COOKY Project was last approved for the period
1 January 1965 through 31 December 1965 for $5.140--$2.530
for FY 1965 and $2,610 for FY 1966. It is requested that
the LICOOKY Project be terminated effective 1 January 1966,
based on the following information geared to the outline
in CSI-F NO. 230-60.

(1) Project Name: LICOOKY

(8) Original Project Objectives: Identify and report
on plans activities and associates of Central
American Communists resident in or visiting Mexico

(3) Reason for Termination: LICOOKY-1 lost her access
to the hard core group of CA communists partly
because of her close association with LINLUCK who
publicly renounced his break with the Guatemalan
CP in 1962. The loss of access was also partly
due to L-l's own apparent indiscretion vis-a-vis
some of her close friends in Mexico City. This
can be attributed both to her own growing distaste
for the grubby and blindly unreasoning members of
this group with whom she was asked to consort, and
her reaction in her social group which took the
form increasingly of anti-Communist remarks, and
to the concomitant (or possibly resultant) rumors
of increasing currency, that she was in the pay
of PRSWING. Attempts were made to take advantage
of her connections with literary circles in
Mexico, but her inability to budget her time
sufficiently to satisfy station requirements led
to the decision to terminate her. A contributing
cause was also her inability to regularize her
status in Mexico so she could accept a paying
position which would give her reason to remain
there, with the resultant strain of the thin
legend that her father was providing her support.
SECRET

14-00000
SECRET

(4) Effectiveness of Project: Project supplied a
certain amount of miscellaneous detail on the
Central American Communist group in its early
stages. Detail and continuity have always been
lacking. During the post-project period of asso-
ciation, after termination notice was already
given, she began to be more attentive to Station
requirements and supplied several rather detailed
profiles of controversial persons in the intellec-
tual world who could be of operational interest
to the Station.

(5) Date of Termination: 1 January 1966

(6) Status of commitments:

a. LICOOKY-1: This Contract Agent is being
carried under LIRANCH (00A) from 1 January
through June 1966 to prepare special reports
against non-LICOOKY Project objectives.
Termination costs will be borne by Project
LIRANCH.

b. LICOOKY-2: LICOOKY-2 was terminated on 31
December 1965 for lack of continuous produc-
tion. He was very understanding when told
of the termination and recognized that his
limited and occasional access made a regular
salary illogical. Contact is maintained
with him via a letter box through which he
can indicate his need for case officer con-
tact. He is then paid small sums for travel
information supplied.

(7) Disposition of funds, material and personnel:

There are no funds or material to be disposed of.
LICOOKY-1 is being terminated effective 30 June
1966. At this time she will be supplied with air
fare from Mexico City to New York and paid the
income tax refund due her. Station owns some of
the furnishings in her apartment and she has
expressed a wish to purchase some of these. The
normal three-bid process will be complied with in
this case, through her advertising the sale and
then offering slightly higher prices for the items.
She plans to retain the apartment in Mexico and
sublet it furnished so she will have a pied-a-terre
whenever she returns there. Her specific plans
for leaving the city are not known. The Station
has no objections to her remaining in Mexico and
SECRET

14-00000
SECRET

is quite willing to maintain contact with her
on an occasional basis. She would be rein
bursed out of LIRANCH on a piecework basis.

(8) Request for funds: No extra funds are required.

(9) Progress made toward attainment of project
objectives: See paragraph 4 above.

(10) Review of Project: No review is contemplated
of Project LICOOKY.

W. J. Kaufman
C/WH/1

14-0000
SECRET
(When Filled In)
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
INSTRUCTIONS
PRIOR TO FILING
1. Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back flap
and forward to RID.
2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records
significant action taken or comments requir
ing preservation.
TO: ACTION BRANCH
If file no. and title shown are not proper,
insert proper file no. below and forward
document to RID/AN.
PROPER FILE NO
TO. ALL ADORESSEES.
UNDER PRIMARY CODE
201-278841

14-00000
FROM
SUBJECT
Chief, WH Division
Chief of Station, Mexico City
Forwarding of Clippings and Comments Concerning
LICOOKY-1/ Jewish Minority in the Soviet Union.
ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES
Action Required: None; FYI.
1. As Headquarters is already aware, a Latin American Conference to Study
the Situation of the Jewish Minority in the Soviet Union (Conferencia Latino-
americana de Estudios sobre la Situación de la Minoría Judía en la URSS) was
held in Mexico City during the period 13 - 15 May 1966. Judging by
articles in the press, Política, La Voz de México, Sucesos Para Todos (see
attachments under separate cover) and excerpts from conversations between
numerous persons on LIENVOY and LIFEAT, the Soviet Embassy, the Mexican
Communist Party (PCM - Partido Comunista Mexicano) and other groups and indivi-
dual Communists were determined, if possible, to prevent the Conference from
being held, failing that, to discredit it completely or pin the ODYOKE/
ODACID label on it. Despite their efforts and the voluminous adverse propaganda,
both before and after the Conference, the Conference was held and was probably
mildly successful.
2. Política, 1 May 1966, carried an article attacking the proposed Con-
ference and ridiculing some of the Mexican participants (Attachment A). It
contains, among other things, a partial reprint of the text of an interview
or statement by Nicolas S. Leonov, Press Attaché of the Soviet Embassy, in
which he states that Mexico should not be drawn into the cold war propaganda
battle, and he maintains that Jews in the Soviet Union are not mistreated or
discriminated against. In addition to the attacks and counterattacks in the
press, efforts were made (based on LIFEAT on Enrique Semo Calev, Gerard
PIERRE-CHARLES, and LIENVOY) to prevent Carlos Pellicer, a darling of the Mexican
left but not a formal PCM member, from taking part; Pellicer is an official of
the Mexican Committee for the Defense of the Jews in the USSR (Comité Mexicano
Pro Defense de los Judíos en la Unión Soviética). Política, 15 May 1966
Attachments:
As stated above, UNDER SEPARATE COVER
Distribution:
Chief, WH Division, w/atts usc
SECRET

14-00000
SECRET
CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH -2- HMMA-29207

(Attachment B) continued the attack on the Conference and its participants,
claiming in effect that it is a clear anti-Soviet move backed by ODACID. As of
18 May, according to the article, numerous signatures had been collected on a
"progressive manifesto" protesting the Conference. The list includes many well
known Mexican Communists and pro-Communists. Attached also (Attachment C) is a
copy of the "progressive manifesto", which was published in 1 Día on 13 May 1966,
and a copy of a manifesto (Attachment D) published in El Heraldo, 22 April 1966,
by the Mexican Committee for the Defense of the Jews in the USSR, in which a
number of demands are made on the Soviet Government with respect to the Jews and
their rights.

3. La Voz de Mexico, 15 May 1966 (Attachment E) carried an article bitterly
attacking the Conference, which it charges is being organized and held by groups
and persons in the service of ODACID. It specifically names LICOOKY-1, although
the latter's name is incorrectly spelled, as one of those responsible for the
Conference and says she is "well connected" with ODYOKE police. Sucesos,
21 May 1966, carried an article (Attachment F) attacking the Conference and its
organizers and charging that there were spies in the Conference.
This article carries a picture of LICOOKY-1.

4. Sucesos, 4 June 1966, included an inserted sheet (not found in all copies
of this edition) entitled "An Agent of the FBI and INTERPOL in the Association of
Mexican Writers," which deals almost exclusively with LICOOKY-1, her expulsion from
Cuba, work in Mexico, and contacts and activities in Mexico. It charges that in
Mexico she is working for Daniel James, who is responsible to KUBARK (Attachment G).

5. LICOOKY-1's name appeared in a notice (Attachment H) appearing in El
Excelsior, 28 May 1966 by Vicente Echeverría del Prado, treasurer of the Mexican
Association of Writers (AEM - Asociación de Escritores de México, A.C.), which
simply stated that LICOOKY-1 is not authorized to accept dues or handle other
business of the AEM within the province of the treasurer's duties and obligations.
However, in view of the adverse publicity previously, the announcement had the
effect or implied that the AEMAC or members of that group believed the charges
that LICOOKY-1 had a part in organizing the Conference and/or is an agent of
KUBARK. The notice, as it appears, also implies that LICOOKY-1 was mishandling
AEMAC funds. Echeverría offered to publish the clarification on the sheet on
which the AEMAC announcement appears; however, LICOOKY-1 asked him not to do so and
said she would take up the notice and any clarification with the AEMAC Justice and
Honor Commission.

6. On 9 June 1966 while conversing with SEMO (Attachment I), Leonov said
that LICOOKY-1 had called him to say that she had had nothing to do with the
Conference, and does not want the Soviets to catalogue her as an enemy. Leonov
commented that LICOOKY-1 had left him her phone number and had asked him to help
her (presumably refute the charges that she was involved with the Conference).
The LILINK case officer who currently handles LICOOKY-1 said on the morning of
14 June 1966 that LICOCKY41 told him she had called the Soviet Press Attaché to
deny that she had had anything to do with the Conference "because it is what she
would normally do." She did not, however, mention beforehand that she intended
to call the Soviet Embassy. (Tape of conversation is forwarded as Attachment J.)

14-00000
SECRET
CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH -3- HMMA-29207

7. The Station believes that most or all articles attacking the Conference,
and particularly those attacking LICOOKY-1, were Soviet inspired, and it is further
believed that SEMO wrote most if not all articles attacking the Conference which
appeared in La Voz, Política and Sucesos. The Soviets, who are probably aware of
previous Cuban charges that LICOOKY-1 is an ODYOKE agent, probably felt that as
an American closely associated with the AEMAC LICOOKY-1 would be vulnerable to
such an attack.

8. As a result of the Sucesos article of 4 June 1966 an official from the
Ministry of Government did visit LICOOKY-1 to check on her documentation. The
official said that he did not believe the charges made in the Sucesos article,
but since her tourist visa had expired he advised her to immediately leave the
country in order to renew it, and he provided her with a letter to show to
Mexican border authorities permitting her exit. She is currently in PBPRIME but
is expected to return to Mexico in a few days.

9. As Headquarters is aware, LICOOKY-1 will be terminated effective
30 June 1966; the decision to terminate her was made some time ago, prior to the
occurrence of the Conference and the resulting adverse propaganda. While she
may be of some occasional use should she return to and remain in Mexico, it is
believed that the recent adverse propaganda has impaired her future usefulness
in Mexico, although many Mexicans undoubtedly do not believe the charges and
others offered to "come to her defense."

10. A dispatch will be prepared and forwarded when the termination has been
completed, and any new developments with respect to her alleged participation in
the above Conference will be included in that dispatch.

Willard C. CURTIS

14-00000
UNCLASSIFIED
INTERNAL
USE ONLY
CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
SUBJECT: (Optional)
FROM:
WH/1
CI/LIAISON
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
FORM 610
3-62
USE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS
(20)
(Officer designation, room number, and
building)
DATE
COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)
18 May 67
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
