104-10326-10042
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

96-5793319
SENSIND:

STAFF
ACTION: CE/W/MB (272) INFO: C/ORMS, CE/TNI, CEDORECORD, CTC/COPS, CTC/IFC,
CTC/OOG, CTC/RTB, CTCARCHIVE, LIMITO, MDSX, ODPD, FILE, C/CTC, CTC/ELB,
DC/CTC (S/W)

96 5793319
ASO PAGE 001 IN 5793319
TOR: 231740Z OCT 96
MNSK 15996

SECRET 231740Z OCT 96 STAFF
CITE MINSK 15996

TO: IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR.
FOR: LIMIT CE/W/MB
SLUGS: WNINTEL GTDANCER
*SUBJECT: <JFK ASSASSINATION>RECORDS TEAM

TEXT:
1. ACTION REQUIRED: IMMEDIATE REPLY.

2. EMBASSY HAS ASKED COS TO APPROACH GYVAPOROUS RE
*ACCESS TO <JFK ASSASSINATION>RECORDS RESIDING IN THEIR
ARCHIVES IN MINSK. APPARENTLY NORMAN MAILER WAS GIVEN
ACCESS TO DO RESEARCH FOR HIS BOOK ON THE SUBJECT TWO YEARS
AGO. EMBASSY ATTEMPTS TO OBTAIN ACCESS OVER THE PAST YEAR
HAVE BEEN FUTILE. A TEAM FROM THE <ASSASSINATION>RECORDS
REVIEW BOARD IS ARRIVING 29 OCT TO MEET WITH GOB OFFICIALS
ON THE SUBJECT AND EMBASSY WOULD LIKE TO GET THIS JOB DONE.

COS MUST ADMIT CARRYING-WATER FOR THIS EMBASSY IS A
SOMEWHAT DISTASTEFUL CHORE, BUT IS WILLING TO DO THE
NEEDFUL (IF ONLY FOR THE PLEASURE OF HAVING EMBASSY CONCEDE
THEY COULD NOT ACCOMPLISH THE MISSION WITHOUT NWBOLTON).
STATION DOES NOT SEE ANY PROBLEMS, BUT IN ORDER TO MAKE
ARRANGEMENTS IN TIME AN IMMEDIATE CONCURRENCE IS
REQUESTED. THANKS-AND-REGARDS.

3. COS MUST ADMIT CARRYING-WATER FOR THIS EMBASSY IS

4. FILE: GUNGA DHIN. CL BY: O.S.93899 CL REASON
DECL_ON: X1 DRV HUM 4

END OF MESSAGE
SECRET

SECRET
