[104-10129-10002] 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DO NOT USE THIS SPACE

ISSUED BY:

THIS DATE (Fill In):

PERSONAL HISTORY STATEMENT
August 31, 1961

INSTRUCTIONS -

1.  Answer all questions completely or check appropriate box. If question is not applicable, write “NA”. Write “Unknown” only if you do not know the answer and it cannot be obtained from personal records. Use blank space at end of form for extra details on any question for which you have insufficient space.

2.  Type, print or write carefully; illegible or incomplete forms will not receive consideration.

3.  Consider your answers carefully. Your signature at the end of this form will certify to their correctness. Careful completion of all applicable questions will permit review of your qualifications to the best advantage.

SECTION I GENERAL PERSONAL AND PHYSICAL DATA

1.  FULL NAME (Last-First-Middle)

RODRIGUEZ, EMILIO AMERICO

2. AGE 3. SEX

33 YEARS 8 MONTHS [X] MALE [] FEMALE

4. HEIGHT 5. WEIGHT 6. COLOR OF EYES 7. COLOR OF HAIR 8. TYPE COMPLEXION 9. TYPE BUILD

5FT. 10IN. 150 lbs. BROWN BLACK RUDDY MEDIUM

10. SCARS (Type and Location)

NONE

11. OTHER DISTINGUISHING PHYSICAL FEATURES

NONE

12. CURRENT ADDRESS (No., Street, City, Zone, State and Country)

9361 S.W. 178 ST. PHONE:

PERRINE 57, FLA. U.S.A. Cedar 5-8341

13. PERMANENT ADDRESS (No., Street, City, Zone, State and Country) AND PHONE NO.

9361 S.W. 178 ST.

PERRINE 57, FLA. U.S.A. PHONE: Cedar 5-8341

14. CURRENT PHONE NO. 15. OFFICE PHONE NO. & EXT. 16. LEGAL RESIDENCE (State, Territory or Country)

Cedar 5-8341 N.A. FLORIDA, U.S.A.

17. NICKNAMES 18. OTHER NAMES YOU HAVE USED

NONE EUGENIO GONZALEZ

19. INDICATE CIRCUMSTANCES (including Length of Time) UNDER WHICH YOU HAVE EVER USED THESE NAMES.

FROM APRIL 1960 TO PRESENT IN HAVANA, CUBA AND MIAMI, FLA. AS UNDERCOVER NAME

20. IF LEGAL CHANGE, GIVE PARTICULARS (Where and by What Authority).

N.A.

SECTION II POSITION DATA

1.  INDICATE THE TYPE OF WORK OR POSITION FOR WHICH YOU ARE APPLYING

CONTRACT AGENT

2.  INDICATE THE LOWEST ANNUAL ENTRANCE SALARY YOU WILL ACCEPT (You will not be considered for any position with a lower entrance salary).

$9,600.00

3. DATE AVAILABLE FOR EMPLOYMENT

CONTRACT Already SIGNED.

4.  INDICATE YOUR WILLINGNESS TO TRAVEL

[] OCCASIONALLY [] FREQUENTLY [X] CONSTANTLY [] OTHER:

5.  INDICATE YOUR WILLINGNESS TO ACCEPT ASSIGNMENT IN THE FOLLOWING LOCATIONS (Check (X) each item applicable)

[X] WASHINGTON, D.C. [X] ANYWHERE IN U.S. [] CERTAIN LOCATIONS ONLY (Specify): [X] OUTSIDE CONTINENTAL U.S.

6.  INDICATE WHAT RESERVATIONS YOU WOULD PLACE ON ASSIGNMENTS OUTSIDE THE WASHINGTON, D.C. AREA.

ADEQUATE PAY AND LIVING CONDITIONS FOR SELF AND FAMILY

FORM 444 USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

-2-

SECTION III CITIZENSHIP

1. DATE OF BIRTH 2. PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State, Country) 3. PRESENT CITIZENSHIP (Country)

JAN. 27, 1928 HAVANA, CUBA U.S.A.

4. CITIZENSHIP ACQUIRED BY 5. DATE NATURAL- 6. NATURALIZATION CERTIFICATE NO.

[] BIRTH [] MARRIAGE [X] OTHER (Specify): NATURALIZED DECEMBER 15, 1949 #6799255

7. COURT ISSUING NATURALIZATION CERTIFICATE 8. ISSUED AT (City, State, Country)

U.S. DISTRICT COURT OF EASTERN DIST. OF LOUISIANA New ORLEANS, LA.

9. HAVE YOU HELD PREVIOUS NATIONALITY 10. IF YES, GIVE NAME OF COUNTRY

[X] YES [] NO CUBA

11. GIVE PARTICULARS CONCERNING PREVIOUS NATIONALITY.

CUBAN BY BIRTH

12. HAVE YOU TAKEN STEPS TO CHANGE PRESENT CITIZENSHIP 13. GIVE PARTICULARS

[] YES [X] NO N.A.

14. IF YOU HAVE APPLIED FOR U.S. CITIZENSHIP, WHAT IS PRESENT STATUS OF YOUR APPLICATION (First Papers, Etc.)?

N.A.

15. DATE OF ARRIVAL IN U.S.

June 6, 1961

16. PORT OF ENTRY 17. ON PASSPORT OF WHAT COUNTRY

MIAMI, FLA. SWISS PROTECTIVE PASSPORT

18. LAST U.S. VISA (No., Type, Place of Issue) 19. DATE VISA ISSUED

RESIDENT, U.S. EMBASSY IN HAVANA, CUBA NOV. 1942

SECTION IV EDUCATION

1. CHECK (X) HIGHEST LEVEL OF EDUCATION ATTAINED

[] LESS THAN HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATE [] OVER TWO YEARS OF COLLEGE - NO DEGREE

[] HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATE [] BACHELOR'S DEGREE

[] TRADE, BUSINESS, OR COMMERCIAL SCHOOL GRADUATE [] GRADUATE STUDY LEADING TO HIGHER DEGREE

[] TWO YEARS COLLEGE OR LESS [] MASTER'S DEGREE [] DOCTOR'S DEGREE

2. ELEMENTARY SCHOOL

3. NAME OF ELEMENTARY SCHOOL 2. ADDRESS (City, State, Country)

COLEGIO DE LA SALLE HAVANA, CUBA

4. DATES ATTENDED (From-and-To) 4. GRADUATE

Sep. 1934 to Nov. 1942 [] YES [X] NO

3. HIGH SCHOOL

4. NAME OF HIGH SCHOOL 2. ADDRESS (City, State, Country)

ALCEE FORTIER HIGH SCHOOL NEW ORLEANS, LA.

5. DATES ATTENDED (From-and-To) 4. GRADUATE

Nov. 1942 to June 1945 [X] YES [] NO

4. COLLEGE OR UNIVERSITY STUDY

| NAME AND LOCATION OF COLLEGE OR UNIVERSITY | SUBJECT | MAJOR | MINOR | DATES ATTENDED | DEGREE REC'D | DATE REC'D | SEM/QTR HOURS |
| :------------------------------------------------- | :------- | :---- | :---- | :--------------- | :----------- | :--------- | :--------------- |
| TULANE UNIVERSITY OF LOUISIANA                     | Biology  |       | Chemistry       | 1945 - 1948    | B.S.         | June 1948  | Sem hrs.       |
| TULANE UNIVERSITY OF LOUISIANA                     | Spanish  |       | Portuguese      | 1949 - 1952    | M.A.         | JUNE 1952  | Sem hrs.       |
| TULANE UNIVERSITY OF LOUISIANA                     | Spanish  |       | French          | 1952 - 1954    |              |            | NONE           |
|                                                    |          |       |                 |                |              |            | N.A.           |

SECTION IV CONTINUED TO PAGE 3

SECTION IV CONTINUED FROM PAGE 2

5.  IF A GRADUATE DEGREE HAS BEEN NOTED IN ITEM 4 WHICH REQUIRED SUBMISSION OF A WRITTEN THESIS, INDICATE THE TITLE OF THE THESIS AND BRIEFLY DESCRIBE ITS CONTENT.

EL EPITETO EN LAS OBRAS DE BERCEO (DO NOT REMEMBER EXACT TITLE). A DETAILED STUDY OF THE MANY USES OF THE EPITHET IN BERCEO'S WORKS, A 12TH CENTURY WRITER, INCLUDING A CROSS-REFERENCE LISTING OF ALL EPITHETS AS SHOWN IN HIS WRITINGS.

6. TRADE, COMMERCIAL AND SPECIALIZED SCHOOLS

| NAME AND ADDRESS OF SCHOOL | STUDY OR SPECIALIZATION | FROM | TO | MONTHS |
| :-------------------------- | :---------------------- | :--- | :-- | :----- |
| N.A.                        |                         |      |     |        |

7. MILITARY TRAINING (FULL TIME DUTY IN SPECIALIZED SCHOOLS SUCH AS ORDNANCE, INTELLIGENCE, COMMUNICATIONS, ETC.)

| NAME AND ADDRESS OF SCHOOL | STUDY OR SPECIALIZATION | FROM | TO | MONTHS |
| :-------------------------- | :---------------------- | :--- | :-- | :----- |
| N.A.                        |                         |      |     |        |

8. OTHER EDUCATIONAL TRAINING NOT INDICATED ABOVE.

N.A.

SECTION V FOREIGN LANGUAGE ABILITIES

1. LANGUAGE (List below each language in which you possess any degree of competence. Indicate your proficiency to Read, Write or Speak by placing a check (X) in the appropriate box(es).

| LANGUAGE   | COMPETENCE - IN ORDER LISTED R-Read, W-Write, S-Speak | EQUIVALENT TO NATIVE FLUENCY | HOW ACQUIRED |
| :--------- | :----------------------------------------------------- | :----------------------------- | :----------- |
|            |                                                        | FLUENT BUT OBVIOUSLY FOREIGN  |              |
|            | R   W   S                                              | ADEQUATE FOR RESEARCH         |              |
|            |                                                        | ADEQUATE FOR TRAVEL           |              |
|            |                                                        | LIMITED KNOWLEDGE               |              |
|            |                                                        | NATIVE OF CONTACT             |              |
|            |                                                        | PROLONGED RESIDENCE (with parents, etc.) |              |
| Spanish    | [X] [X] [X]                                            |                               | ACADEMIC STUDY (all levels) |
| PORTUGUESE | [X] [X] [X]                                            |                               |              |
| FRENCH     | [X] [X] [X]                                            |                               |              |
| ITALIAN    | [] [] []                                              |                               |              |

2.  IF YOU HAVE CHECKED "ACADEMIC STUDY" UNDER "HOW ACQUIRED", INDICATE LENGTH AND INTENSIVENESS OF STUDY.

From 1949 to 1954 STUDIED THE ROMANCE LANGUAGES AT THE GRADUATE LEVEL

3.  IF YOU HAVE INDICATED FLUENCY FOR A LANGUAGE HAVING SIGNIFICANT DIFFERENCES IN SPOKEN AND WRITTEN FORM, EXPLAIN YOUR COMPETENCE THEREIN.

N.A.

4.  DESCRIBE YOUR ABILITY TO DO SPECIALIZED LANGUAGE WORK INVOLVING VOCABULARIES AND TERMINOLOGY IN THE SCIENTIFIC, ENGINEERING, TELECOMMUNICATIONS, MILITARY, AND OTHER SPECIALIZED FIELDS.

FAMILIAR WITH SCIENTIFIC AND ENGINEERING TERMINOLOGY IN SPANISH.

5.  IF YOU HAVE NOTED A PROFICIENCY IN LANGUAGE, WOULD YOU BE WILLING TO USE THIS ABILITY IN ANY POSITION FOR WHICH YOU MIGHT BE SELECTED?

[X] YES [] NO

-4-

SECTION VI GEOGRAPHIC AREA KNOWLEDGE AND FOREIGN TRAVEL

1.  LIST BELOW ANY FOREIGN REGIONS OR COUNTRIES IN WHICH YOU HAVE TRAVELLED OR GAINED KNOWLEDGE AS A RESULT OF RESIDENCE, STUDY OR WORK ASSIGNMENT. INDICATE TYPE OF KNOWLEDGE SUCH AS TERRAIN, HARBORS, UTILITIES, RAILROADS, INDUSTRIES, POLITICAL PARTIES, ETC.

| NAME OF REGION OR COUNTRY | TYPE OF SPECIALIZED KNOWLEDGE | KNOWLEDGE ACQUIRED BY | DATES OF RESIDENCE OR TRAVEL | DATES AND PLACE OF STUDY |
| :------------------------- | :----------------------------- | :---------------------- | :----------------------------- | :----------------------- |
|                            |                                | RESIDENCE TRAVEL STUDY  | WORK ASSIGNMENT              |                          |
| CUBA                       | HAVANA & VECINITY. POLITICAL, ECONOMIC & SOCIAL STRUCTURE, COMMERCE - IMPORTATIONS | [X] [X] [X] [X] | 1954-1961 | N.A. |

2.  INDICATE THE PURPOSE OF VISIT, RESIDENCE, OR TRAVEL IN EACH OF THE REGIONS OR COUNTRIES LISTED ABOVE.

TO WORK AS Assistant District Manager for Century Electric Co., IN change of their HAVANA Office, IN HAVANA, Cuba. Later REMAINED IN CUBA FROM MARCH 1960 to June 1961 AS PRINCIPAL Agent for C.I.A.

3.  UNITED STATES PASSPORT NUMBER AND EXPIRATION DATE, IF ISSUED.

PASS. No: 1095961 Expired: Sept. 2 1960 (NOT RENEWED)

SECTION VII TYPING AND STENOGRAPHIC SKILLS

1. TYPING (wpm) 2. SHORTHAND (wpm) 3. SHORTHAND SYSTEM USED - CHECK (X) APPROPRIATE ITEM

50 N.A. [] GREGG [] SPEEDWRITING [] STENOTYPE [] OTHER (Specify):

2.  INDICATE OTHER BUSINESS MACHINES WITH WHICH YOU HAVE HAD OPERATING EXPERIENCE OR TRAINING (Comptometer, Mimeograph, Card Punch, Etc.).

MIMEOGRAPH, ADDING MACHINE, CALCULATOR, DICTATING MACHINE.

SECTION VIII SPECIAL QUALIFICATIONS

1.  LIST ALL HOBBIES AND SPORTS IN WHICH YOU ARE ACTIVE OR HAVE ACTIVELY PARTICIPATED. INDICATE YOUR PROFICIENCY IN EACH.

FISHING, HUNTING, SWIMMING (GOOD UNDERWATER RESISTANCE), PHOTOGRAPHY (BLACK & WHITE AND COLOR), MUSICAL (PLAY SEVERAL INSTRUMENTS BY EAR), FLYING, Chess, Bowling, Average IN ALL OF THE ABOVE.

2.  INDICATE ANY SPECIAL QUALIFICATIONS RESULTING FROM EXPERIENCE OR TRAINING WHICH MIGHT FIT YOU FOR A PARTICULAR POSITION OR TYPE OF WORK.

TEACHING AND ADMINISTRATIVE Experience Secured AT THE UNIVERSITY LEVEL AND IN FOREIGN TRADE MANAGEMENT RESPECTIVELY. Also CAPACITY TO CARRY OUT INDEPENDENT RESEARCH AT THE GRADUATE LEVEL.

3.  EXCLUDING BUSINESS EQUIPMENT OR MACHINES WHICH YOU MAY HAVE LISTED IN ITEM 2, SECTION VII, LIST ANY SPECIAL SKILLS YOU POSSESS RELATING TO OTHER EQUIPMENT AND MACHINES SUCH AS OPERATION OF SHORTWAVE RADIO (Indicate CW speed, sending and receiving), OFFSET PRESS, TURRET LATHE, SCIENTIFIC AND PROFESSIONAL DEVICES.

FAMILIAR With General SCIENTIFIC APPARATUS AS MAY BE PRESENT IN A MEDICAL RESEARCH LABORATORY. BECKMAN Spectophotometry. (DID ONE YEAR RESEARCH AT TULANE MEDICAL SCHOOL)

SECTION VIII CONTINUED TO PAGE 5

SECTION VIII CONTINUED FROM PAGE 4

4.  ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN A LICENSED OR CERTIFIED MEMBER OF ANY TRADE OR PROFESSION, SUCH AS PILOT, ELECTRICIAN, RADIO OPERATOR, TEACHER, LAWYER, CPA, MEDICAL TECHNICIAN, ETC.?

[X] YES [] NO

5.  IF YOU HAVE ANSWERED "YES" TO ABOVE, INDICATE KIND OF LICENSE AND STATE ISSUING LICENSE (Provide License Registry Number, if known).

Student Pilot Certificate N° S-293957

6. FIRST LICENSE OR CERTIFICATE (Year of Issue) 7. LATEST LICENSE OR CERTIFICATE (Year of Issue)

2-18-54 N.A.

8.  LIST ANY SIGNIFICANT PUBLISHED MATERIALS OF WHICH YOU ARE THE AUTHOR (Do NOT submit copies unless requested). INDICATE THE TITLE, PUBLICATION DATE, AND TYPE OF WRITING (Non-Fiction or Scientific articles, General Interest subjects, Novels, Short Stories, Etc.).

N.A.

9.  INDICATE ANY DEVICES WHICH YOU HAVE INVENTED AND STATE WHETHER OR NOT THEY ARE PATENTED.

N.A.

10. LIST PUBLIC SPEAKING AND PUBLIC RELATIONS EXPERIENCE.

IN COLLEGE AND AS A Junior EXECUTIVE, IN FOREIGN TRADE

11. LIST ANY PROFESSIONAL, ACADEMIC OR HONORARY ASSOCIATIONS OR SOCIETIES IN WHICH YOU ARE NOW OR WERE FORMERLY A MEMBER. LIST ACADEMIC HONORS YOU HAVE RECEIVED.

Phi Sigma Iota, National HONOR Society of Romance Languages.

American Association of Teachers of Spanish and Portuguese.

Graduate Scholarships offered by the state of Louisiana and Tulane University. (UNDER WHICH I DID FIVE YEARS OF GRADUATE WORK)

HONORARY MENTIONS AND MEDALS.

SECTION IX EMPLOYMENT HISTORY

NOTE: (LIST LAST POSITION FIRST.) Indicate chronological history of employment for past 15 years. Account for all periods including casual employment and all periods of unemployment. Give address and state what you did during periods of unemployment. List all civilian employment by a foreign Government, regardless of dates. In completing item 9, "Description of Duties" consider your experience carefully and provide meaningful, objective statements.

1.  INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To - By Mo. and Yr.)

April 1954 - Oct. 1960

2.  NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY

(CENTURY ELECTRIC COMPANY)

3.  ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country)

1806 PINE ST., ST. LOUIS, MO., USA.

4.  KIND OF BUSINESS

MANUFACTURER OF MOTORS, GENERATORS, ETC.

5.  NAME OF SUPERVISOR

ARNESTO N. RODRIGUEZ, Dist. Mgr.

MR. Charles C. White, Export MANAGER.

6.  TITLE OF JOB 7. SALARY OR EARNINGS 8. CLASS, GRADE (If Federal Service)

Assistant DISTRICT MANAGER $1,000 PER MONTH

9.  DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES

TO PROMOTE AND SERVICE THE SALE OF CENTURY MOTORS, GENERATORS, AND RELATED EQUIPMENT IN THE TERRITORY OF CUBA, AND TO COOPERATE IN COLLECTIONS WHEN NECESSARY. TO MANAGE THE HAVANA DISTRICT SALES OFFICE IN FULL RESPONSABILITY IN THE ABSENCE OF THE DISTRICT MGR. TO LOOK AFTER THE INTEREST OF CENTURY ELEC. CO. IN CUBA.

10. REASONS FOR LEAVING

PRESENT CONDITIONS IN CUBA AND ACCEPTANCE ASSIGNMENTS AS PRINCIPAL AGENT IN CUBA FOR C.I.A.

SECTION IX CONTINUED TO PAGE 6

-6-

SECTION IX CONTINUED FROM PAGE 5

1.  INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To - By Mo. and Yr.)

FEB. 1950 - MARCH 1954

2.  NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY

TULANE UNIVERSITY

3.  ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country)

(ST. CHARLES ST. NEW ORLEANS LA U.S.A.

4.  KIND OF BUSINESS

COLLEGE

5.  NAME OF SUPERVISOR

DR. John E. Englekirk, CHAIRMAN Sp. Dept.

6.  TITLE OF JOB 7. SALARY OR EARNINGS 8. CLASS, GRADE (If Federal Service)

Graduate Asst. $700 PER MONTH

9.  DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES

TEACHER OF BEGINNER AND INTERMEDIATED SPANISH IN THE COLLEGE LEVEL. TO ASSIST WITH REGISTRATION AND DEPARTMENTAL FUNCTIONS.

10. REASONS FOR LEAVING

To ACCEPT ABOVE POSITION

1.  INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To - By Mo. and Yr.)

JUNE 1949 - JUNE 1950

2.  NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY

BERLITZ SCHOOL OF LANGUAGES

3.  ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country)

INTERNATIONAL TRADE MART, NEW ORLEANS, LA, U.S.A.

4.  KIND OF BUSINESS

LANGUAGE SCHOOL

5.  NAME OF SUPERVISOR

MR. HALL, DIRECTOR

6.  TITLE OF JOB 7. SALARY OR EARNINGS 8. CLASS, GRADE (If Federal Service)

PROFESSOR $3.00 PER

9.  DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES

TO TEACH THE SPANISH LANGUAGE (BY The BERLITZ METHOD).

10. REASONS FOR LEAVING

TO ACCEPT Above Position AND PURSUE AN ADVANCED DEGREE

1.  INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To - By Mo. and Yr.)

JAN. 1949 - June 1949

2.  NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY

TULANE UNIVERSITY MEDICAL SCHOOL

3.  ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country)

(TULANE AVE., NEW ORLEANS, LA. U.S.A.

4.  KIND OF BUSINESS

MEDICAL SCHOOL

5.  NAME OF SUPERVISOR

DR. Woo

6.  TITLE OF JOB 7. SALARY OR EARNINGS 8. CLASS, GRADE (If Federal Service)

Medical Research Technician $200.00 PER MONTH

9.  DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES

IN CHARGE OF SPECTROPHOTOMETRIC ANALYSIS IN THE CARDIO-VASCULAR RESEARCH LABORATORY.

10. REASONS FOR LEAVING

CONCLUSION OF RESEARCH

1.  INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To - By Mo. and Yr.)

2.  NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY

3.  ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country)

4.  KIND OF BUSINESS 5. NAME OF SUPERVISOR

5.  TITLE OF JOB 7. SALARY OR EARNINGS 8. CLASS, GRADE (If Federal Service)

$ PER

9.  DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES

10. REASONS FOR LEAVING

SECTION IX CONTINUED TO PAGE 7

9.  DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES

10. REASONS FOR LEAVING

SECTION IX CONTINUED FROM PAGE 6

1.  INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To - By Mo. and Yr.)

2.  NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY

3.  ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country)

4.  KIND OF BUSINESS 5. NAME OF SUPERVISOR

5.  TITLE OF JOB 7. SALARY OR EARNINGS 8. CLASS, GRADE (If Federal Service)

$ PER

9.  DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES

10. REASONS FOR LEAVING

11. INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To - By Mo. and Yr.)

12. NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY

13. ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country)

14. KIND OF BUSINESS 5. NAME OF SUPERVISOR

15. TITLE OF JOB 7. SALARY OR EARNINGS 8. CLASS, GRADE (If Federal Service)

$ PER

9.  DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES

10. REASONS FOR LEAVING

B. IF PRIOR SERVICE WITH THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IS NOTED ABOVE, INDICATE THE NUMBER OF YEARS CREDITABLE TOWARD U.S. CIVIL SERVICE RETIREMENT, IF KNOWN.

9.  HAVE YOU EVER BEEN DISCHARGED OR ASKED TO RESIGN FROM ANY POSITION.

[] YES [X] NO

HAVE YOU LEFT A POSITION UNDER CIRCUMSTANCES WHICH YOU DESIRE TO EXPLAIN? [] YES [X] NO

IF YOUR ANSWER TO EITHER OR BOTH QUESTIONS IS "YES", GIVE DETAILS

-8-

SECTION X MILITARY SERVICE

1.  ARE YOU REGISTERED FOR THE DRAFT UNDER THE UNIVERSAL MILITARY TRAINING AND SERVICE ACT OF 1948 (As amended)

[] YES [X] NO

2.  CURRENT DRAFT STATUS 3. SELECTIVE SERVICE CLASSIFICATION 4. SELECTIVE SERVICE NO.

4-F 16-45-28-53

5.  LOCAL DRAFT BOARD NO. OR DESIGNATION AND ADDRESS

N°45, Orleans PARISH, New Orleans, LA.

4.  IF DEFERRED, GIVE REASON

DIABETES MELLITUS

2.  MILITARY SERVICE RECORD

3.  CURRENT AND/OR PAST ORGANIZATIONAL MEMBERSHIP

CHECK (X) AS APPROPRIATE

[] ARMY [] NAVY [] MARINE CORPS [] AIR FORCE [] COAST GUARD [] MERCHANT SERVICE (Specify): [] NATIONAL GUARD [] AIR NAT'L GUARD [] FOREIGN ORGAN. OR MIL.

HAVE SERVED+ NOW SERVING -

4.  TOTAL LENGTH OF EXTENDED ACTIVE DUTY IN U.S. ARMED FORCES (Past and current service)

5.  DATE ENTERED ACTIVE DUTY -

6.  TOTAL LENGTH OF ACTIVE DUTY IN FOREIGN MILITARY ORGANIZATION

7.  RANK, GRADE OR RATE

8.  SERVICE, SERIAL OR FILE NUMBER (If now serving, provide current number)

9.  PRIMARY MILITARY OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTY (Mos or Designator) AND TITLE

10. SECONDARY MIL. OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTY (Mos or Designator) AND TITLE

11. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF MILITARY DUTIES (Indicate whether applicable to past or current service)

12. CHECK (X) TYPE OF SEPARATION FROM ACTIVE DUTY

[] HONORABLE DISCHARGE [] RETIREMENT FOR SERVICE [] UNDUE HARDSHIPS

[] RELEASE TO INACTIVE DUTY [] RETIREMENT FOR COMBAT DISABILITY [] OTHER:

[] RETIREMENT FOR PHYSICAL DISABILITY

13. CHECK (X) COMPONENT IN WHICH YOU SERVED

[] REGULAR [] RESERVE (Including the National and Air National Guard) [] OTHER (Including AUS)

3.  MILITARY RESERVE, NATIONAL GUARD AND ROTC STATUS

4.  DO YOU NOW HAVE RESERVE STATUS?-

[] YES [X] NO

5.  ARE YOU NOW A MEMBER OF THE NAT'L. GRD. OR AIR NAT'L. GRD.?

[] YES [] NO

6.  ARE YOU NOW A MEMBER OF THE ROTC?

[] YES [] NO

7.  IF YOU HAVE ANSWERED "YES" TO ITEMS 1, 2 OR 3 ABOVE, CHECK COMPONENT MEMBERSHIP BELOW

[] ARMY [] NAVY [] MARINE CORPS [] AIR FORCE [] NATIONAL GUARD [] AIR NAT'L. GUARD [] COAST GUARD [] ARMY ROTC [] NAVY ROTC [] AIR FORCE ROTC

8.  CURRENT RANK, GRADE OR RATE 9. DATE OF APPOINTMENT IN CURRENT RANK 10. CHECK (X) CURRENT RESERVE CATEGORY

[] READY RESERVE [] STANDBY(Active) [] STANDBY(Inactive) [] RETIRED

11. PRIMARY MILITARY OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTY (Mos or Designator) AND TITLE 12. SECONDARY MILITARY OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTY (Mos or Designatory AND TITLE

12. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF MILITARY RESERVE DUTIES

13. ARE YOU CURRENTLY ASSIGNED OR ATTACHED TO A RESERVE, NAT'L. GUARD OR ROTC TRAINING UNIT

[] YES [X] NO

15. HAVE YOU A MILITARY MOBILIZATION ASSIGNMENTI

[] YES [X] NO

16. INDICATE TOTAL MILITARY SERVICE YEARS FOR LONGEVITY PURPOSES INCLUDING ACTIVE AND INACTIVE DUTY

MONTHS NA NA

17. IF YOU HAVE ANSWERED "YES" TO ITEM 12, GIVE UNIT OR AGENCY AND ADDRESS

18. IF YOU HAVE ANSWERED YES TO ITEM 14, GIVE UNIT OR AGENCY AND ADDRESS

19. WHERE ARE YOUR SERVICE RECORDS KEPT?

SECTION XI FINANCIAL STATUS

1.  ARE YOU ENTIRELY DEPENDENT ON YOUR SALARY?

[X] YES [] NO

2.  IF YOUR ANSWER IS "NO" TO THE ABOVE, STATE SOURCES OF OTHER INCOME

N.A.

3.  BANKING INSTITUTIONS WITH WHICH YOU HAVE ACCOUNTS

| NAME OF INSTITUTION                | ADDRESS (City, State, Country) |
| :--------------------------------- | :----------------------------- |
| Whitney Nat. Bank of New Orleans   | New Orleans, LA., U.S.A.       |
| The Airport BANK of Miami          | Miami, FLA., U.S.A.            |
| The ROYAL BANK of CANADA           | HAVANA, Cuba.                  |

4.  HAVE YOU EVER BEEN IN, OR PETITIONED FOR, BANKRUPTCY,

[] YES [X] NO

5.  IF YOUR ANSWER IS "YES" TO THE ABOVE, GIVE PARTICULARS, INCLUDING COURT AND DATE(S)

N.A.

6.  GIVE THREE CREDIT REFERENCES IN THE UNITED STATES

| NAME                               | ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State) |
| :--------------------------------- | :--------------------------------- |
| Whitney Nat. BANK of New ORLEANS   | New Orleans, LA. U.S.A.            |
| D.H. HOLMES Ltd. (Department Store) | New Orleans, LA. U.S.A.            |
| MAISON Blanche (Department Store)    | New Orleans, LA. U.S.A.            |

7.  DO YOU RECEIVE AN ANNUITY FROM THE UNITED STATES OR DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA GOVERNMENT UNDER ANY RETIREMENT ACT, PENSION, OR COMPENSATION FOR MILITARY OR NAVAL SERVICE?

[] YES [X] NO

8.  IF YOUR ANSWER IS "YES" TO THE ABOVE QUESTION, GIVE COMPLETE DETAILS

N.A.

9.  DO YOU HAVE ANY FINANCIAL INTEREST IN, OR OFFICIAL CONNECTIONS WITH NON-U.S. CORPORATIONS OR BUSINESSES; OR IN OR WITH U.S. CORPORATIONS OR BUSINESSES HAVING SUBSTANTIAL FOREIGN INTERESTST

[] YES [X] NO (If answer "YES", furnish details on separate sheet.)

SECTION XII MARITAL STATUS

1.  PRESENT STATUS (Single, Married, Widowed, Separated, Divorced, or Annulled) SPECIFY:

MARRIED

2.  STATE DATE, PLACE, AND REASON FOR ALL SEPARATIONS, DIVORCES OR ANNULMENTS

N.A.

WIFE, HUSBAND OR FIANCE: If you have been married more than once - including annulments - use a separate sheet for former wife or husband giving data required below for all previous marriages. If marriage contemplated, fill in appropriate information for fiance.

3.  NAME (First) (Middle) (Maiden) (Last)

PAULINE Juanita Ross RODRIGUEZ

4.  STATE ANY OTHER NAMES EVER USED INDICATE CIRCUMSTANCES (Including length of time) UNDER WHICH ANY OF THESE NAMES WERE USED. IF LEGAL CHANGE GIVE PARTICULARS

PAULA (NICKNAME SINCE CHILDHOOD) (Where and by what authority). USE EXTRA SPACE PROVIDED ON PAGE 16 OF THIS FORM TO RECORD THIS INFORMATION.

5.  DATE OF MARRIAGE 6. PLACE OF MARRIAGE (City, State, Country)

JUNE 10, 1948 New Orleans LA. U.S.A.

7.  HIS (OR HER) ADDRESS BEFORE MARRIAGE (No., Street, City, State, Country)

(300 OAKUM ST. EDENTON, N.C., U.S.A.

8.  LIVING 9. DATE OF DEATH 10. CAUSE OF DEATH

[X] YES [] NO N.A. N.A.

11. CURRENT ADDRESS (Give last address, if deceased)

9361 S.W. 178 St. PERRINE 57, FLA. U.S.A.

12. DATE OF BIRTH 13. PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State, Country)

JAN. 2, 1923 BOGALUSA LA. U.S.A.

SECTION XII CONTINUED TO PAGE 10

-10-

SECTION XII CONTINUED FROM PAGE 9

14. IF BORN OUTSIDE U.S. DATE OF ENTRY 15. PLACE OF ENTRY

N.A. N.A.

16. FORMER CITIZENSHIP(S) [Country(ies)] 17. DATE U.S. CITIZENSHIP 18. WHERE ACQUIRED (City, State, Country)

N.A. ACQUIRED N. A. N.A.

19. OCCUPATION 20. PRESENT EMPLOYER (Also give former employer, or if spouse deceased or unemployed give last two employers)

House Wife

21. EMPLOYER'S OR BUSINESS ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country)

N.A.

22. DATES OF MILITARY SERVICE (From and to - By Mo. and Yr.) 23. BRANCH OF SERVICE 24. COUNTRY WITH WHICH MILITARY SERVICE AFFILIATED

N.A. N.A. N.A.

25. DETAILS OF OTHER GOVERNMENT SERVICE, U.S. OR FOREIGN

N.A.

SECTION XIII CHILDREN AND OTHER DEPENDENTS

1.  PROVIDE THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION FOR ALL CHILDREN AND DEPENDENTS

| NAME                        | RELATIONSHIP | DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH                 | CITIZENSHIP | ADDRESS                   |
| :-------------------------- | :----------- | :-------------------------------------- | :---------- | :------------------------ |
| EMILIO AMERICO RODRIGUEZ J.R. | SON          | SEPT. 18, 1951, New Orleans, LA. U.S.A. | U.S.A.      | 9361 SW. 178 ST. PERRINE ST, FLA. |
| JOSEPH ROSS Rodriguez       | SON          | MARCH 1, 1953, New Orleans, Lo. U.S.A.  | U.S.A.      | 9361 SW. 178 ST. PERRINE ST, FLA. |
| PATTI MICHELLE RODRIGUEZ    | DAUGHTER     | OCT. 23, 1954, HAVANA, Cuba U.S.A.      | U.S.A.      | 9361 SW. 178 ST. PERRINE ST, FLA. |
| PAUL MARSHALL RODRIGUEZ     | SON          | NOV. 1, 1957, HAVANA Cuba.              | U.S.A.      | 9361 SW. 178 ST. PERRINE 57, FLA. |

2.  NUMBER OF CHILDREN (Including step-children and adopted children) WHO ARE UNMARRIED, UNDER 21 YRS OF AGE, AND NOT SELF-SUPPORTING.

4

3.  NUMBER OF OTHER DEPENDENTS (Including spouse, parents, step-parents, sister, etc.) WHO DEPEND ON YOU FOR AT LEAST 50% OF THEIR SUPPORT, OR CHILDREN OVER 21 YRS. OF AGE WHO ARE NOT SELF-SUPPORTING.

0

SECTION XIV FATHER (Give same information, for Stepfather and/or Guardian on a separate sheet)

1.  FULL NAME (Last-First-Middle) 2. LIVING 3. DATE OF DEATH 4. CAUSE OF DEATH

RODRIGUEZ, ARNESTO NAPOLEON [X] YES [] NO N.A. N.A.

5.  STATE OTHER NAMES HE HAS USED INDICATE CIRCUMSTANCES (Including length of time) UNDER WHICH HE HAS EVER USED THESE NAMES. IF LEGAL CHANGE, GIVE PARTICULARS

NA. (Where and by what authority). USE EXTRA SPACE PROVIDED ON PAGE 16 OF THIS FORM TO RECORD THIS INFORMATION.

6.  CURRENT ADDRESS - Give last address, if deceased (No., Street, City, State, Country)

The ORICANIAN Apt. Note ST. CHARLES Ave., New Orleans, LA. U.S.A.

7.  DATE OF BIRTH 8. PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State, Country) 9. CITIZENSHIP

August 1891 HAVANA, Cuba. Cuban

10. IF BORN OUTSIDE U.S.-DATE OF ENTRY 11. PLACE OF ENTRY 18. DATE U.S. CITIZENSHIP 14. WHERE ACQUIRED (City, State, Country)

Nov. 196 New Orleans, LA. ACQUIRED NA N.A

15. OCCUPATION 16. PRESENT EMPLOYER (Give last employer, if Father is deceased or unemployed)

RETIRED 1806 Century Elect. Co. PINE ST., ST. LOUIS. Mo. U.S.A.

17. EMPLOYER'S BUSINESS ADDRESS OR FATHER'S BUSINESS ADDRESS IF SELF-EMPLOYED

18. DATES OF MILITARY SERVICE (From-and-To) 19. BRANCH OF SERVICE 20. COUNTRY

N.x. N.A. N.A.

19. DETAILS OF OTHER GOVERNMENT SERVICE, U.S. OR FOREIGN

INTELLIGENCE AGENT FOR U.S. EMBASSY IN HAVANA CUBA DURING WORLD WAR I, WORLD WAR II, AND RECENT CASTRO REVOLUTION

-11-

SECTION XV MOTHER (Give same information for Stepmother on separate sheet)

1.  FULL NAME (Last-First-Middle) 2.