SUBJECT: (C)

FROM: Sidney Gottlieb
Chief, TSD

TO: 1. Carl E. Duckett
2. DDS&T

DATE: 8 May 1973

COMMENTS: (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

FORWARDED

SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL USE ONLY UNCLASSIFIED

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Science & Technology

SUBJECT: TSD Support to Other Agencies

1. Technical Services Division's charter (CSI 1-8) requires that it provide technical assistance to both CIA operations and other activities as may be directed by the Deputy Director for Operations.

2. Over the years the chief non-CIA recipients of this support have been the Department of Defense, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs, Immigration and Naturalization Service, Department of State, United States Postal Service, Secret Service, Agency for International Development, and the White House.

3. While varying widely among the different recipients, these services have included training and materials, and in a few instances participation in the fields of audio and visual surveillance, secret writing and related communications, personal protection, alias documentation and questioned document examination, disguise, concealment devices, electronic beaconry, illicit narcotics detection, and counter-sabotage/terrorism.

4. In most instances requirements for this support are received by TSD through higher echelons (Office of the Director or Deputy Director for Operations). Unless the service involved is a trivial or continuing one, the request is referred to the Foreign Intelligence Staff Departmental Coordination Group for coordination and approval at the appropriate Agency levels. Approval within TSD by the Chief of Operations or Development and Engineering and the Chief of TSD or his Deputy also is required.

5. The attachment lists the primary services provided to the organizations named in Paragraph two.

6. Issuance of forged personal identity documentation by TSD is controlled according to two broad criteria: type of requester; and type of documentation requested. A request for denied area documentation from a DDO Area Division is honored after proper validation. Free world documentation may require some extra coordination however. A Swiss passport would not be issued without coordination with the EUR Swiss Branch; an Irish passport would not be issued for use anywhere in the Commonwealth area without the approval of the British Desk; Hong Kong documentation is not to be used in Hong Kong unless approved by Hong Kong Chief of Station.

7. Unless ordered otherwise by higher Agency authority, no U. S. documentation is issued by TSD Headquarters without prior coordination with the Office of Security and the Central Cover Staff. TSD/Regional Bases require at least the validation of U.S. documentation requests by the COS, or his designated representative, of the requesting Station. Because it could be used in order to obtain a U.S. passport in alias, no U.S. Birth Certificate is issued without approval of the DDO via Central Cover Staff. Backstopped major credit cards are issued by Office of Security, not TSD.

8. Provision of forged documentation to non-DDO requesters, whether they be CIA or other Agency requesters, always requires approval of non-TSD offices. Support to the military for instance would be validated by FI Staff/Departmental Coordination Group at Headquarters or by the COS overseas having responsibility for coordination of the operation. BNDD requests are coordinated with DDO/NARCOG. Requests for documentation of Immigration and Naturalization Service is coordinated via the Alien Affairs Staff.

9. Authentication items are issued on a loan basis and must be returned to TSD or accounted for. After any documentation has been issued, TSD retains photographs and records of such support until the documentation has been returned to TSD. If the material is not returned after a reasonable time, the requester is reminded of the outstanding documentation.

Attachment

Distribution:
Addressee, w/att

Sidney Gottlieb
Chief
Technical Services Division
