14-00000
104-10121-10130
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

16 July 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR: CCS/PRG

SUBJECT: Return of Alias Documents

Returned herewith are alias documents which have been issued to identity in the aliases of (Miguel P. COSSIO), (Diego S. MARDONES), (Daniel Suarez MORENO), (Simon S. MARTINEZ). These documents have been utilized by identity for operational purposes. However, as he is due to retire on 31 July 1975, they are being returned to you for final disposition. The documents returned are as follows:

(Miguel P. COSSIO) (A)
CIA Credential #1716 FORWARDED SEPARATELY
Continental Insurance Companies Card
Washington Theater Club Card
RCA Record Club Card
Social Security Card

(Diego S. MARDONES) (A)
Dade Country Library Card
AAA Card
Social Security Card
Humble Travel Club, Inc. Card
Pan American Bank Card
ABC Card

(Daniel SUAREZ Moreno) (A)
(Panamanian Passport)

SECRET/RYBAT

(Simon S. MARTINEZ) (A)
Health Cert. #41716
Nat. Science Book Club
AM Bowling Congress Card
(SS) Card
(GEFCO) Card
Ft. Wash. Yacht & Tennis Club
DC Nat'l Bk
Best Products Co., Inc.
Special Rep Credential #389
Calling Cards

2. It is noted that identity also has a (Mexican) Passport in the alias of Diego S. MARDONES MARTINEZ. This document is currently maintained by identity who is on TDY in Buenos Aires, Argentina. The document will be retrieved from identity upon his arrival at Headquarters and will be returned separately to CCS.

3. Records available in L.A. Division also reflect that identity was issued a (Maryland) Driver License in the alias of Miguel P. COSSIO and a (Florida) Driver License in the alias of Diego S. MARDONES. These documents were reportedly returned to the Office of Technical Services in April 1974.

4. Should any further questions arise relative to this matter, please direct your inquiries to undersigned on extention X6300 or R1546.

Joseph F. King
Chief, LA Security

Attachment:
As Stated

Identity:
David Morales
