‘oa-t0078-0226 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

DIRECTOR: C/SAS
DDP, ADDP, D/OC, VR
SECRET

ROUTING

27224 02

DIP CITE WAVE 8225
DATOTYPIC PANTY FEDGUP COMMO
REFS:
A. HAVE ROGA (IN 66850)
B. HAVE 8971 (IN 66867)
C. WAVE 8272 (IN 66868)
E. WAVE 8074 (IN 66883)
F. WAVE R185 (IN 67242)
G. WAVE 8196 (IN 67216)
H. WAVE 8126 (IN 67381)

FAL IS TRANSLATION OF REFS A THRU F.

A. 43, ENTERING DIRECTLY THE PLACE. TEODORO IS IN CHARGE OF
THE VIGILANCE OF KARAT ONE. ARLE, WHO IS ANIRAL'S PAN, IS IN CHARGE OF
KARAT TWO. DOCTOR JIFERES IS IN CHARGE OF THE INTELLIGENCE FOR KARAT
ONE. THIS WAS COR. JIFERES WORKED WITH PANCHO VILLA IN HERE BEFORE.
AQUILES.

ITO. THESE ARE DATA ON DAVID'S RAN AND THEIR
FUNCTIONS. DATA ON EL BULLDOZER. MIGUEL SUAREZ KERKENDEZ. 30 YEARS
OLD. BORN IN 1933. WE DO NOT HAVE THE DAY AND MONTH, SON OF FATED AND
JOSEFA. WORKS IN THE WATER SUPPLY LINE OF BOCA DEL GLARE. IS PARA ILD
AND HAS 4 CHILDREN. LIVES ON THE BEACH.

WILL WORK

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000
IN 19911 PAGE 2
SECRET

RECEPTIONS. DATA ON EL PIRATA, JOSE TEMPRANA CARMONA. ALIAS EL
NING. IS OWNER OF THE 14 FOOT BOAT WITH A 6 HORSE POWER MOTOR WHO
WILL PK IN RECEPTIONS. 73 YEARS OLD. BORN IN BOCA FALAFRI ON 19
APRIL. CARRIED AND HAS 4 CHILDREN. FISHERMAN. CONTINUES.
GIORZO AND ALTA GRACIA. LIVES IN ROCA DE CALAMBRE.
NAME OF HIS BOAT IS "LA CIVICTAT". DATA ON EL VIGILANTE. THIS WAS
(ALIAS TORRADO)
LOCATE THE RADIO OPERATOR. ROBERTO ROTTADO CACERES.
37 YEARS OLD. BORN ON 19 SEPTEMBER 1926, SON OF HERMINIO AND MARIETA.
LIVES ON THE SANTA ROSA FARM ON THE HIGHWAY OF SAN JUAN DEL GALAPPE
KILOMETER 2200 COORDINATES. IS A TAXI DRIVER.
DATA ON EL PATRIMA. HIS BASE HOUSE. ESTEBAN SUAREZ ROJAS. 56 YEARS
OLD. SON OF RAFAEL AND ISABELA. MARRIED
AND HAS 4 CHILDREN, LIVES IN LA PLAYA FARM. CONTINUES.
FARMER. I WILL LATER SEND YOU THE EXACT LOCATION BY
SET OF MAPS ON COLLIER. RECEIVED YOUR MESSAGE 82.
AQUILES.

OTTO. YOU SHOULD WARN SAULO THE GREAT DANGER ARTACAN
IS IN IF HE REVEALS ANYTHING ON THE TYPE OF WORK THAT WAS ENTRUSTED TO
HIM IN CHIA. WE WILL NOT POSITION COTOPRA AGAIN. WE ARE AWAITING
IF US RE MECHO VILLA IF HE HAS RETRIEVED CACHE NORTE THREE.
PLACIDO RELATED ROUTE FOR THE CACHE YOU TOLD HIM WAS LOCATED IN FRONT.
THIS HAS BEEN FOUND BY A MINER WHO DELIVERED ALL
THE CARPET TO TITO ETIA. I RECEIVED YOUR MESSAGE
RISE SERIOUS IN PY GALARRAGA'S LETTER,
INFRA 10 18 DATED 11 LAST YEAR

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

PAGE 2
FACTORY. THERE A PUBLIC DEMONSTRATION WAS GIVEN IN FOLLOWING THE TRAIL
AND FINDING A MAN THROUGH OBSTACLES, SUCH AS SUGAR CANE, WEEDS, AND SO.
ON. THESE ANIMALS ARE NOW IN SANTIAGO DE LAS VEGAS. SOURCE OF
INFORMATION OWNER OF FARM ADJACENT TO THE TOLEDO SUGAR FACTORY.
REPORTED BY ANTONIO ON 15 NOVEMBER. AQUILES.
TEODORO INFORMED.
OTTO.
WAVE COMMENTS:
RECEIVED MESSAGE NUMBER 87. AQUILES.
RE REF.A. KARAT ONE AND TWO REFER TO OPERATION
NO WAVE TRACES SUBJS REF. B. AND REF C. REF E. SAULO REFUGEE
(also read 73 DR)
MEXICO, COTOPRA IS COBRA 13 DR.
