```markdown
14-00000

104-10164-10110 [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DEPT OF STATE AIRGRAM A-406
FROM AMEMBASSY, PORT-AU-PRINCE
DATE: 11 APRIL 1963
CLASSIFICATION: OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SUBJECT: U.S. BUSINESSMAN SIGNS CONTRACTS WITH
HAITIAN GOVERNMENT AND LOCAL BANK

14-00000
CHARLES, Clemard Joseph,
President and General Manager of the Commercial Bank of Haiti (Banque Commerciale d'Haiti - BCH).
Clemard Joseph Charles is known as a confidant of President François Duvalier and as a businessman of questionable repute. One well-informed source reports that Charles, although active on the Haitian scene, is a "slippery character." There exists considerable doubt about his importance or political significance despite the fact that he appears to have a "line into the Palace" and is persona grata with the President. Regarding Charles' business interests, a prominent and knowledgeable Haitian recently (March 1963) reported that the Commercial Bank of Haiti is in bad shape, "holding a worthless portfolio made up of notes guaranteed by political figures," and that Charles himself was dishonest, having, for example, recently approved a loan for $14,000 on his daughter's signature alone. Further, Charles was alleged by this same source to know nothing about banking and to be a favorite of President Duvalier. This estimate is confirmed by one US official who adds that Charles is more accurately described as a "promoter" than as a businessman and that he is a partner in the BCH rather than the sole owner. Charles endeavors to attract US venture capital for various Haitian projects and claims to be an honorary citizen of Long Beach, Long Island, New York, having promoted a "sister city" relationship between that town and Port-au-Prince.
A dark Negro about five-foot seven-inches tall, Clemard Joseph Charles.

REPORT HAS BEEN PREPARED IN ROUGH UNEDITED FORM TO EXPEDITE THE SERVICING OF AN URGENT REQUEST
CONFIDENTIAL
Report 201-357029 on HAITIAN Opposition.

14-00000
was born of peasant stock in Gonaives. He received his primary education at a parochial school, and graduated from Lycée Geffrard in 1939. According to Charles' own account, during his early career he taught in rural Haitian schools, worked as an upholsterer, time-keeper, plantation supervisor and free lance journalist. In 1947 he was appointed controller general of Haitian Southern Banana Industry, and became general agent in 1949. In 1949 he then established himself as a manufacturer's representative and created his own export-import business. Charles traveled to London in 1953 and to Brussels in 1957 as a member of various Haitian Government missions. Charles further states that he created the Commercial Bank of Haiti in 1960 and is its sole owner, as well as being the sole representative in Haiti of the General Electric Company, Ltd., of London, England and of Siemens Schuckert Werke, Germany.
Charles and his wife, Sophie, have one adopted son.

March 1963
CONFIDENTIAL
THIS REPORT HAS BEEN PREPARED IN ROUGH UNEDITED FORM TO EXPEDITE THE SERVICING OF AN URGENT REQUEST.

14-00000
Enclosure No. 1
Port-au-Prince A-345
5 March 1963
Contour André remarked quite flatly that there are really only two banks in Haiti, the National Bank and the Royal Bank. The others are pretty sad affairs. The COLCC-HAITI, for example, has a portfolio of $1.4 million which is, as André put it, "all fraud". The president of that bank, he said, is a rich man today. His technique, according to André, is to find someone willing to accept a loan which he knows cannot or will not repay on which he kicks back in some cases more than half. André said he knows personally of one man who was leaving for the United States who signed notes for $10,000 and accepted $2,000, the remainder going into the pocket of the bank president. As for reserves, the Colombo-Haitian bank has been below the legal requirements for months and is now paying, in accordance with law, fines of $150 daily. What will happen when depositors want their money back he, André, would rather not think about.

André said he knew the bank had tried to interest some American investors in the business, perhaps in the hope of getting new capital with which to keep going. He, André, however, understood that the Americans were a rather dubious Miami group, even if they did come in (which he did not at the moment foresee) he didn't think it would improve the situation. The Colombo-Haitian bank, he said, was in such poor shape it would take a major overhaul to save it.

I had led the conversation over to the Colombo-Haitian bank because of certain special interests we have. I now took the occasion to ask about Clemard Charles and his Commercial Bank of Haiti. André replied that the situation was practically the same! The bank held a worthless portfolio made up of notes guaranteed by political figures. Charles himself was dishonest - recently, for example, he had approved a loan for $14,000 on his daughter's signature alone and he also knew nothing about banking but he was something of a favorite with the President who gave him support. The Bank holds mortgages on the Commercial Bank of Haiti, for example, and, since payments are now substantially in arrears, André said, he might have foreclosed. The President, however, had asked him not to in order to avoid a scandal.

Turning briefly to the balance of payments question, I asked André how matters now stood (having in mind, but not mentioning, some of the smaller commercial banks in bad shape).

The latest balance sheet on the Commercial Bank of Haiti, with some comment on its president, was forwarded with Embassy A-325, February 15, 1963.
CONFIDENTIAL

14-00000

DEPT OF STATE AIRGRAM A-325
DATE: 16 FEBRUARY 1963
CLASSIFICATION: OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FROM: AMEMBASSY, PORT-AU-PRINCE
SUBJECT: BANKING: BALANCE SHEET OF THE
BANQUE COMMERCIALE D'HAITI

FBI DOCUMENT
DATE: 2 AUGUST 1962
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
SUBJECT: RE: CLEMARD JOSEPH CHARLES
INTERNAL SECURITY - HAITI
FBI FILE NO: 105-6311 (MIAMI)

14-00000
SECRET
File: 201-97837
JOSEPH D. CHARLES
Joseph D. Charles, a Negro, was born 15 November 1907, at Limbe, Haiti. He is married and has five children. He received his law degree at the Law School in Cap Hatien in 1928. A former law professor, Assistant Prosecuting Attorney and Judge of the Civil Court in Cap Hatien (1928 - 1940), Charles served as Ambassador to the United States from 8 October 1946 until 1 June 1960. During this period, he served also as Ambassador on the Council of the Organization of American States (1949 - 1950).
He resigned his ambassadorial post after the fall of the government of President Estimé who had appointed him. On 29 February 1952, he was designated Secretary of Education and Public Works by President Magloire and resigned from the cabinet on 31 March 1953, allegedly because of his opposition to increasingly close ties between the governments of Haiti and the Dominican Republic.
Charles chaired the Haitian delegation to the second post of the first session of the UN General Assembly (1946), the second session (1947) and the fourth session (1949). He chaired also the delegation to the Ninth International Conference of American States at Bogata (1948) and is reported to have been friendly to the United States.
Charles has in the past been mentioned more than once as a possible successor to the incumbent president. The most recent occasion was in 1955 when he was mentioned as a possible successor to President Paul E. Magloire.
SECRET

14-00000
SECRET
CHARLES
Madame Charles, nee Telson, is a sister of Adelphin Telson, formerly Minister of Defense and Justice, formerly President of the Chamber of Deputies, who is friendly to the US and in contact with US officials in Port-au-Prince. A sister of Madame Charles is married to Colonel Marcaisse Prosper, former Chief of Police under the Magloire government. It has been alleged that the three men, Charles, Telson and Prosper, constitute a potentially strong political force in Haiti.
SECRET

14-00000
COUNTRY Haiti REPORT NO. 00-B-3,260,765
SUBJECT Interview with Clemard Joseph Charles/ DATE DISTR. 10 May 1963
Possible Duvalier Successor/ Ideology/ NO. PAGES 3
Friends and Supporters/Interpretation
of Current Situation
DATE OF To early May 63 REFERENCES 00/CD Case 40556
INFO.
PLACE & -/2 May 63
DATE ACQ.
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION
SOURCE: US citizen, former journalist, who has followed developments in the Caribbean
area closely for many months and maintains contact with persons directly con-
cerned with the area.
His command of French and his habit of making detailed shorthand notes enable
him to report with an unusual degree of accuracy.

1. On 2 May 63, had a four-hour interview with Clemard Joseph Charles, president
and general manager of Banque Commerciale d'Haiti, Port-au-Prince, vice president
of the Haitian Chamber of Commerce, and cousin of Joseph D. Charles, former
Haitian ambassador to the US.

2. Clemard Charles, whose PO Box in Port-au-Prince is No. 575, told us that he was
a man of peasant stock and that while a business leader he has the full confidence
of the predominantly peasant population of Haiti, and, that with the additional
backing of forcibly retired anti-Duvalier army officers, intellectuals, journal-
ists and businessmen, he is in a position to become the head of a provisional
government after Duvalier is removed. He believes the span between now and 15
May when Duvalier's term expires and 22 May, when his new term is scheduled
to commence, will be the most crucial period for Haiti. He believes Duvalier is
ready to institute a reign of terror, killing those who oppose him, and is
willing to accept Soviet help. About two weeks ago, the Polish charge d'affaires
left Port-au-Prince for Poland, and Charles believes he carries Duvalier's re-
quest for economic and possibly military help.

As vice president of the Chamber of Commerce, he learned that in early April 1963
a Czechoslovak delegation arrived in Port-au-Prince, presumably to discuss
trade matters, a fact which gave rise to rumors that it consisted of military
technicians.

Charles firmly believes this will be the last chance for the US Government to
help establish a democratic Haiti friendly to the US and save the country for a
Castro-type Communist takeover. Although he has been on good terms with Du-
valier, he now feels that the President "went crazy and must be stopped before he
liquidates the opposition. Shortly after Charles made this statement he was
called to the phone. Returning, he told us that one of his friends had been
killed two days before by Duvalier for alleged plotting but talked frankly about
his own influential support-
ers and indicated he could only work with a firm pledge
of holding free elections. He declined to give the names of the
STATE
ARMY
NAVY
AIR
APC
GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification
CONTROLLED
REPORT INFORMATION REPORT
NO DISSEM ABROAD
WARNING: The dissemination of this document is limited to civilian employees and active duty military personnel within the intelligence components
of the USIB member agencies, and to their authorized civilian employees and active duty military personnel within the intelligence components
of the USIB member agencies, and to their authorized civilian employees of the member agencies who must possess the information. However, unless specifically controlled
in accordance with paragraph 4 of CI 1/7, it may be released to the components of the departments and agencies of the U. S. Government directly
participating in the production of National Intelligence. IT SHALL NOT BE DISSEMINATED TO CONTRACTORS. It shall not be disseminated to organizations or
groups of personnel, including consultants, under a contractual relationship to the U.S. Government without the written permission of the originator.

14-00000
Ambrose Shard
(201-345467) by
the FBI in Nov 62.
That DESINOR is
a. Clovis Desinor, Secretary of Commerce & Industry, and a good friend.
One of the code-carrying
Washington.
b. Pitial colonel, former Haitian military attaché in
Prince.
c. Col. (fnu) Honorat, now en asylee in the Brazilian Embassy, Port-au-
Prince.
d. Col. H. Leenis, retired officer, good and honest man."
e. Former Ambassador Joseph D. Charles
f. Dr. Emile Saint Lot, former law professor; president of Haitian
Senate and National Assembly in 1957; former ambassador to France,
now in exile in New York (apt. 12J, 392 Central Park West at 100th
St., tel. 5-515). Charles called him a "player," that is, an
Opportunist, but anti-Duvalier.
g. Col. (fnu) Chanel
5. Charles intimated that he had many other prominent supporters who are
violently anti-Duvalier and who are ready to back "my government." He
has just passed his 40th birthday (he was born 21 Apr 1923 in Gonaives),
makes him eligible for the presidency in so far as the constitutional
age requirement is concerned. In case he did not become provisional presi-
dent after Duvalier's overthrow, he would be satisfied with the post of
Secretary of Finance & Economic Affairs. He said the present secretary,
Dr. Harve Boyer, has leftist tendencies, and his wife is definitely a
Communist.
he would be qualified to become president. He said that only those who
are in this category can become president.
6. Charles added that as he is of "100% black origin" (He is very black),
7. Charles said he would need the "moral and economic help of the US
Government and people" to transform Haiti into a true and prosperous
democracy. He said he would need about one year to put into effect his
"plan for the economic and social development of Haiti," which, among others
has these salient points:
a. Creation of a balanced economy adapted to Haitian conditions
b. Development of industry and exploitation of natural resources
c. Modernization of agriculture
8. Charles would like to present his plan to US officials for consideration.
He said about 90% of Haitians are against Duvalier, who maintains his rule
by keeping the militia strong. Duvalier no longer has funds to pay
the militiamen but allows them to "live off the land." Charles believes
that in the event of an anti-Duvalier uprising, the army would kill the
hated militiamen who are mostly responsible only to Duvalier.

9. Once Duvalier is finished, Charles would suggest that as a goodwill gesture
toward the Haitians, who are overwhelmingly pro-US, the US construct the
promised airport and thus create jobs. Another way to bolster the economy
would be to encourage tourists.

10. Charles hopes the Dominican Republic will not invade Duvalier's Haiti.
He believes the Dominicans could easily defeat Haiti's army and militia
but an invasion would cause the Haitians to rally around Duvalier in defense
of their country.

11. Before leaving Port-au-Prince, Charles worked out a telephone code with
his wife, Sophie. On 30 Apr 63, he called her, and she told him "not to
rush home," which meant that his life might be in danger if he returned to
Haiti now. In view of this, he told the Haitian Consul in New York that he
has to stay a few days longer to buy parts for machines used in his Haitian
sisal enterprise.

12. Charles gave the following data concerning his career: He went to parochial
school; in 1939, was graduated from Lycée Geffrard, Gonaives; taught in
rural schools after his father's death in 1939, and also supported his
family by working as upholsterer, timekeeper, plantation supervisor and

CONTROLLED DISSEM NO DISSEM ABROAD

14-00000
1-3,260,765
free-lance journalist. In 1947 he was appointed controller general of
southern Haiti banana industry and became general agent in 1949. In 1949
he established his own export-import business. In 1953 he went to London
as a member of a Haitian government economic mission. In 1954 on behalf of
Haiti he negotiated a contract with General Electric, Ltd., of Coventry, UK,
for modernisation and extension of Haiti's telecommunications system. In
1957 he was appointed member of a Haitian mission to an international
conference in Brussels. In 1960 he founded Banque Commerciale d'Haiti, of
which he is sole owner. In addition, he is full or part owner of the
following Haitian enterprises: Universal Enterprises SA; National
Deutsch (sic) Associates; Clemard Joseph Charles Import-Export; a South
Haiti cocoa enterprises J.C. Charles & Co. He is sole representative of
General Electric, Ltd., of London, and Siemens Schuckert Werke, West Ger-
many. In the past few years he has made many business trips to the US, UK,
France, Italy and West Germany. He said he had invested about US$500,000
in the Haitian economy and as a patriot under no circumstances will he take
money out of Haiti.

13. Charles, who is married and has one adopted son, has received many honors,
including the Civil Merit Order, Officer of the Labor Order, etc. In 1962 he
was given the Key of the City of New York.

14. Charles concluded by saying that in the world today there are two alterna-
tives: The US or the USSR. He says he and his group have chosen the US. As
to how to get rid of Duvalier, he said "the tyrant may be killed by the
army" before 22 May 63. He did not elaborate; he merely called attention to
Trujillo's fate.

CONTROLLED DISSEM NO DISSEM ABROAD

14-00000
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM
RELEASE IN FULL
1999
DATE: 2 MAY 1963
FROM: TRANSMIT TO:
OUTGOING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
PRIORITY
ROUTINE
ORIGINATING OFFICER:
MADR
OIT W
CONFIDENTIAL
CLASSIFICATION)
CAPITAL
TYPE IN CAPITAL LETTERS, DOUBLE SPACED
NEW CASE 40556: RE FREUND-CARONSKI RELATION OF 1 D
MAY: THE FO
MENTS ARE SUBMITTED FOR CLEMARD JOSEPH CHARLES
TO:
FACE
WHOM DOES CHARLES SEE AS THE MOST DESIRABLE INTERIM PRESIDENT IN
CASE DUVALIER IS OUSTED WHAT ARE HIS REASONS FOR THIS PREFERENCE?
WEST IS SOURCE'S ASSESSMENT OF CERTAIN HAITIAN POLITICAL FIGURES WHO ARE
COMMONLY CHARACTERIZED AS INSTIGATORS OR COMPANIONS ALONG, THOSE ARE PAUL
BLANCHET, EDWIGE ARMAND AND HERVE BOYER. DOES HE BELIEVE THAT THEY
ARE UNDER MOSCOW DISCIPLINE?
DOES CHARLES KNOW ANYTHING OF THE REPORTED ENTRANCE INTO HAITI IN EARLY
APRIL OF A SMALL NUMBER OF CZECH MILITARY TECHNICIANS?
WE WOULD BE INTERESTED IN BACKGROUND DATA ON CHARLES CASE 40257
(130, WE WOULD LIKE TO HAVE THE PLACE AND DATE OF HIS BIRTH FOR NAME CHECK
in 111
a sc
RELEASING
OFFICER
PLACE
WISH MAY
100/C learned from com
The Cha.
00/how
COORDIN
CLARIFICATION
AUTHENTICATIN OFFICES

14-00000
UNCLASSIFIED
INTERNAL
USE ONLY
SUBJECT: (Optional)
FROM:
DO/HQT
Rm. 5 B 2825
TO: (Officer designation, room number, and
building)
1.
DO/COEO
Attn:
Gale W. Allen
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
C/00/00E0
Ders/app/Janney
Do/CoEU/ALLEN
DATE
RECEIVED
FORWARDED
EXTENSION
2224
DATE
OFFICER'S
INITIALS
0 APR 963
25 April 1963
COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment)
Toy 2-4.
Suggest additional
nife obtained from B/1
be added to the
Official 201-
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM
RELEASE IN FULL
1999
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
.18.
FORM 610 UNTU
SEXBET
CONFIDENTIAL USE ONLY
INTERNAL
UNCLASSIFIED
CONFITIAL
SECRET
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
INAL

14-00000
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM
RELEASE IN FULL
1999
CONTACT REPORT
WUBRINY - M. Clemard Joseph CHARLES
IX-122
2 May 1963

1. WUBRINY/1 telephoned on the sterile line from Chicago,
on his way to the West Coast, to report his final contact before
departing with subject.

2. Subject telephoned WUBRINY/1 on 1 May and said that
because of the recent unpleasant developments in Haiti he
thought it would be quite inappropriate to continue discussions
regarding WUSALINE possible investment in the area at least
until things were clarified.

3. M. CHARLES indicated that he was returning to Haiti
shortly and asked if WUBRINY/1 could visit him there.
WUBRINY/1 said that he would consider this or have one of his
representatives go, if it later seemed desirable. He indicated,
however, a continuing interest in the investment picture in
Haiti if, as, and when.
DO/COEO/CFS:jj(2 May 1963)
Distribution:
-
EO subject
- EO chrono
1 - WUBRINY Ops
C. FRANK STONE, III
Chief
DO/COEO

14-00000
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM
RELEASE IN FULL
1999
IX-104
30 April 1963
CONTACT REPORT
WUBRINY Haitian Operation

1. WUBRINY/1 telephoned from his residence on the sterile
line at approximately 0930 hours to report the following.

2. WUBRINY/1 said that he believed that the meeting that
is to be held by Mr. CHARLES and WUBRINY/1 plus an unnamed third
party would involve a Mr. Tardieu.

3. I told WUBRINY/1 there had been considerable interest
in this general development on the part of the Department of
State and cited (without identification) A-406, Amembassy, Port-
au-Prince, dated April 11, 1963, subject: U.S. Businessman Signs
Contracts with Haitian Government and Local Bank. I told WUBRINY/1
that the Department information I had before me cited Le Moniteur
of March 13, 1963 and said that the Airgram also mentioned a
Mr. Bert Cindine TARDIEU. I also gave WUBRINY/1 the points raised
under "comment" on page 2 of the Airgram.

4. WUBRINY/1 said that he agreed with all of these comments
as he had come to the same conclusions.

5. I told WUBRINY/1 that there was obviously considerable
interest in any reporting that he can do on the subject and
requested that he let me know when the meeting takes place and
continue his detailed reporting as heretofore. He agreed to do so.
C. FRANK STONE, III
Chief
DO/COEO
DO/COEQ/CFS11 (30 Apr 63)
Distribution:
Orig - 20 subject;
• EO chrono:
• WUBRINY Ops

14-00000
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM
RELEASE IN FULL
1999
DEPT OF STATE AIRGRAM A-419
FROM: AMEMBASSY, PORT-AU-PRINCE
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT:
CONVERSATION WITH CLEMARD JOSEPH CHARLES
OF THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF HAITI ON APRIL
18, 1963

14-00000
UNCLASSIFIED
INSTRNAL
USE ONLY
SUBJECT: (Optional)
FROM:
DO/HQT
Rm. 5 B 2825
TO: (Officer designation, rooms number, and
building)
1.
DO/COEO
Attn:
Gale W. Allen
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
C/00/00E0
Ders/app/Janney
Do/CoEU/ALLEN
DATE
RECEIVED
FORWARDED
EXTENSION
NO
4551
- DATE
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
APR 963
25 April 1963
COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment)
Toy 2-4.
Suggest additional
nife obtained from B/1
be added to the
Official 201-
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM
RELEASE IN FULL
1999
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
.18.
FORM 610 UNTU
SEXBET
CONFIDENTIAL USE ONLY
INTERNAL
UNCLASSIFIED

14-00000
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM
RELEASE IN FULL
1999
IX No. 76
23 April 1963
MEMORANDUM FOR:
ATTENTION
SUBJECT
REFERENCE
DO/COLO
:
Mr. Gale W. Allen
Trace Reply Clemard Joseph CHARLES
P
DO/COEO Memorandum dated 23 April 1963
requesting traces on CLEMARD, Joseph Charles

1. There are no traces on Clemard Joseph CHARLES
(201-357-029) born 21 April 1923 at Gonaives, Haiti, who
is President and General Manager of the Commercial Bank of
Haiti, in RID or at the WH/Haitian Desk. In March 1963,
Biographics Register prepared a summary of information on
Mr. CHARLES for inclusion in the Biographic Intelligence
Report on Haitian Opposition Personalities. This summary
is made up of information obtained from several different
sources. One source classifies CHARLES as a slippery
character who is active on the Haitian scene and refers to
him as a "promoter" rather than a businessman, who endeavors
to attract United States "venture" capital for various
Haitian projects and then becomes a partner by virtue of
the promotion. Biographics Register has a very high opinion
of this Source, who is the State Department's Haiti Desk
Officer. During a debriefing on CHARLES, in February 1963,
this same source stated that CHARLES is a confidant of
President Duvalier and that he has emerged as an active
businessman by virtue of his priviledged position with the
President.

2. Another source of information regarding CHARLES'
business interests is the President of the National Bank of
Haiti who considers CHARLES, himself, as dishonest. For
example, according to Source, CHARLES approved a loan of
$14,000.00 on his daughter's signature alone. Also, the
Commercial Bank of Haiti held a worthless portfolio made up
SECRET

14-00000
SUBJECT: Trace Reply Clemard Joseph CHARLES
This Source
of notes guaranteed by political figures.
also stated that CHARLES was "something of a favorite of
the President, who gave him support."

3. Attached to this memorandum is a copy of Department
of State Airgram No. A-325, dated 16 February 1963, from
the United States Embassy, Port-Au-Prince, Haiti, subject:
Banking: Balance Sheet of the Banque Commerciale d'Haiti
You
which includes some information on CHARLES' life story.
will note the comment in the last paragraph of Airgram A-325
that reads, "... Be all that as it may, the Embassy has no
strongly adverse information concerning Mr. Charles' integri-
ty or banking honesty. And as the balance sheet shows, his
bank, if not thriving, is at least still a going concern."

4. It may be that a check with 00/C through Mr.
Schreyer's office and a request for field station traces will
provide additional information concerning CHARLES. A copy of
this memorandum is being forwarded to RID with a request
for a 201 file on Subject which will be forwarded to you on
permanent charge.
Enclosures:
1. State Airgram No. A-325 (copy)
2. Draft BR Summary
SECRET

14-00000
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM
RELEASE IN FULL
1999
April 1963
CONTACT REPORT
WUBRINY/1 - Clemard Joseph Charles

1. Ambassador Hountrignon had previously informed WUBRINY/1
that Clemard Joseph Charles, President of the Commercial Bank of
Haiti, was coming to New York on 24 April and suggested that
WUBRINY/1 might work with him in financing Hountrignon's diplomatic
residence in Haiti.

2. Mr. Allen informed WUBRINY/1 that Charles is a confidant of
President Duvalier and could be expected to report on all
Americans with whom he had conversations and the substance of these
conversations. WUBRINY/1 was admonished that in any contact with
Charles the security of WUBRINY/1's relation with WUSALINE should
meet in his mind. WUBRINY/1 was informed that Charles is
characterized as a businessman of questionable repute. He is characterized
as dishonest, and more of a promoter than businessman. His
loan portfolio of notes guaranteed by political
figures. For example, he approved a loan $14,000 for his
daughter's signature alone. He is also reported to be
a partner in the bank rather than sole owner, as he alleges.

3. Mr. Allen said that Charles was of great interest
that we would like to know why he was in the U. S. and if there is
anything we can do to help him.
WUBRINY/1 was admonished in any conversations with Charles to
concentrate on economic rather than on political matters unless
Charles himself first raised political matters.
WUBRINY/1 said that he might inquire about Haiti's economic status,
outlook for the coffee crop on which Haiti's economy may
or fall, and how the economy is being hurt by the absence
foreign aid programs.
It was further suggested to WUBRINY/1 that should
conversation with Charles permit, he might inquire as to whether
Haitian officials are setting aside funds outside the country and
question the rationale for an expensive inaugural celebration
the President, given the bad state of the Haitian economy.
WUBRINY/1 said that he could easily add the flight of capital
question by mentioning the availability of Swiss bank accounts for
investment outside Haiti.

4. Mr. Allen said that in view of the sensitivity of this operation
WUBRINY/1 should wear his other hat, i.e., represent his private firm rather
than making this contact. Spoke to particulars stating
SECRET
GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification

14-00000
but it is legitimate for businessmen to ascertain
views. Messrs. Stone and Allen concurred in the use of WUBRINY/1's
private firm instead of WUSALINE in view of our interest.

5. Mr. Allen indicated to WUBRINY/1 that he was definitely
interested in Hountrignon and wanted a good assessment such as
WUBRINY/1 had come up on FALOR/1. WUBRINY/1 said that this presented
no problem. He stated that he had not specifically asked Hountrignon
his exposition concerning Charles.
Charles 201
GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification

14-00000
TRANSMITTAL
OF
TDCS INFORMATION REPORT
HELEN E MORGAN
CLASSIFICATION
201- 97839
SECRET
When filled in)
ORIG.
UNIT
EXT.
DATE
WH/6/H
4506
7 MAY 1963
CONFIRMATION COPIES
WH 11
INFORMATION COPIES
ROUTING
1
MAY 7 13 26=53
TDCS DB-3/654,521 SENT
CI/IC, CI/OPS,,FI/D, FI, FI/INT 6, ITW 2, CA/O 11, CA/PEG
CA 2, SAS 5
DATE DISTRIBUTED
7 MAY 1963
11/6/8
WH/6/DR 1
7
DISSEMINATION
WH/FRIN: 1
WH/PACY 1
WH/SNTO 1
LIMWAVE
1
1
EVALUATION
REQUESTED
OF
STATE
ARMY
HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS
NAVY
AIR
37
3.
ROUTINE
PRECEDENCE
BASED ON (F. Rpt., Prof.)
WAVE 8122 (IN 32935)
NO PROJECT
EMTIN-1
LIAISON
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM
RECOMMEND FOR EXO
RELAY REQUEST ATTACHED FOR RELAY TO DOPA
DD/P INTERNAL USE ONLY
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
(When filled in)
COORDINATING OFFICER
BAS/INTEL/R (BY PHONE)
RELEASING OFFICER
C. B
COFT NO.
J

14-00000
TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
The material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 11, U.S.C' becs.
73 and 794; the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.j
CLASSIFICATION — DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED LISSEM
COUNTRY HAITT
REPORT NO. TDCS DB-3/654,521
SUBJECT
REMARKS MADE BY FELIX FRANCIS
CONCERNING THE HAITIAN SITUATION
BATE OF 5 MAY 1963
INFO.
PLACE & UNITED STATES (6 MAY 1963)
BATE ACO.
APPRAISAL 3 (THAT THE REMARKS WERE MADE)
SOURCE
DATE DISTR. 7 MAY 1963
PRECEDENCE ROUTINE
REFERENCES
TDCSDB-3