```markdown
14-00000

| 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: KING, MARTIN LUTHER, JR.
201-760966
INCLUSIVE DATES:
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:
ROOM:
DELETIONS IF ANY:
DATE RECEIVED RETURNED REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
20 APR 78 RAGIN LINDLEY
22 Sept 78 22 Sept 78 William A.
22 Sept 78 22 Sept 78 Ken

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.

KING, MARTIN LUTHER

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
DOCUMENT RECEIPT

SENDER OF DOCUMENTS:
Deputy Director for Plans
CIA NO.
DOCUMENT DATE
COPIES

NOTICE TO RECIPIENT:
Sign and Return as Shown on Side

ADDRESS OF RECIPIENT:
S.J. Papich
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Room 845, Riddell Bldg.
1730 K Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20006

DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT(S) SENT:
DOCUMENT TITLE:
CSCI 316/01702-68

DOCUMENT DATE:
1959

ATTACHMENTS:
RECIPIENT SIGNATURE (ACKNOWLEDGING RECEIPT OF DOCUMENT(S))
OFFICE
CLASS
DATE OF RECEIPT
2 MAY 1968

USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS
COUR
DATE SENT
DATE DOCUMENT(S) SENT
MAY 1968

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

SECRET

2 MAY 1968

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation

SUBJECT: Martin Luther KING, Jr.

1. Reference is made to this Agency's out message number 94270 dated 25 April 1968 concerning the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther KING, Jr.

2. On 16 April, Roderick Claflin BROWN, a Panamanian national born 1 July 1917 in British Honduras, voluntarily appeared at the Department of National Investigations (DENI) of the Republic of Panama and signed a deposition, the highlights of which are as follows:

(1) On 26 October 1962 he served as cook/seaman aboard the Texaco S.S. Southhampton which docked at Mobile, Alabama.

(2) While on a shore visit to the Mobile airport on the morning of 26 October 1962 in the company of two fellow Panamanian seamen, he was approached by Marvin P. LITTRELL, owner of LITTRELL Motor Co., 921-25 South Clinton Street, Athens, Alabama, who after ascertaining BROWN was a Panamanian seaman, asked if he knew of Dr. Martin Luther KING, Jr.

(3) LITTRELL inquired whether BROWN was interested in employment, the details of which were unspecified. He went on to describe Dr. KING as "Our greatest problem who is causing us much trouble." He gave BROWN a business card to use in the event he was interested in pursuing the employment offer.

(4) On 28 January 1963 BROWN wrote LITTRELL from New York City, stating he was interested in a job and

SECRET

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000

-2-

requested $75 for travel from New York City to Mobile. On 2 February 1963 BROWN received a reply from LITTRELL, restating that he had a job waiting for BROWN in Alabama but questioning why $75 was needed since the fare was less than $40 by bus.

(5) After discussions with a relative and friends in New York City, BROWN suspected that the LITTRELL job offer was related with assassination plans for Dr. KING. Therefore he did not respond to the LITTRELL letter and dismissed the incident until the death of Dr. KING in April 1968. BROWN returned to Panama in 1964.

3. Enclosed for your information is a copy of the LITTRELL letter and the Spanish language deposition made by BROWN, as well as an English translation of the deposition as described in paragraph 2 of the referenced out message.

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR PLANS:

Signed: James R. Hunt
JAMES ANGLETON

Enclosures
WH/2/Panama/G. Hodges: cib
Distribution:
Orig & 1 Addressee, w/atts
Based on:
1- CI/R&A (Dummy)
1 CI/LIA (Dummy)
2 - CI/OPS/DO, w/atts
1- WH/2/Panama

May 1968
PANAMA CITY 6180 (IN 97566)

SECRET

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000

SECRET
(WHEN FILLED IN)

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS:
PRIOR TO FILING TO: ACTION BRANCH

1. Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back flap if file no. and title shown are not proper, and forward to RID. insert proper file no. below, and forward document to RID/AN.
2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records significant action taken or comments requiring preservation.

PROPER FILE NO.

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES
FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

FILE TITLE: 201-760966 and X-into 19-4-105
Reclassify into 19-4-105

FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE): 019-004-105
DOCUMENT DATE:
DOCUMENT NUMBER:

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000

SECRET TELEPOUCH
DISP NO UFGA-29884
FILE NO - NONE
DATE 9 APRIL 1968

INDEXING NONE
MICROFILM NONE

TO: CHIEF, WH DIVISION
INFO: CHIEF, WH/COG - CHIEF, WOLIME
FROM: COS, JMWAVE

SUBJECT: SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA TREATMENT OF DEATH OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., 8-9 APRIL 1968

REFERENCE: UFGA-29877

IN ADDITION TO THE SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA COVERAGE OF THE MARTIN LUTHER KING ASSASSINATION TRANSMITTED IN REFERENCE, THE FOLLOWING SUMMARY FOR 8-9 APRIL HAS BEEN FURNISHED BY THE AMOTS.

QM GRANMA, 9 APRIL, PAGE ONE - JJMOBILIZATION OF 55,000 TROOPS TO REPRESS THE NEGROES. THE ARTICLE REPORTED ALL THE DISTURBANCES WHICH HAVE OCCURRED IN THE U.S. AS A RESULT OF THE DEATH OF MARTIN LUTHER KING.

WN GRANMA, 9 APRIL, PAGE - WITH THE ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING THE IDEOLOGY OF NON-VIOLENCE HAS DIED. AN INTERVIEW WITH FLOYD MCKISSICK, NATIONAL DIRECTOR OF THE CONGRESS OF RACIAL EQUALITY (CORE). THIS SIMPLY MEANS THAT NON-VIOLENCE HAS CEASED AS A MEANS OF FIGHTING. THE PEOPLE CANNOT BE TAUGHT TO BE NON-VIOLENT WHILE WE ARE INVOLVED IN A VIOLENT WAR, IN VIETNAM. NON-VIOLENCE CANNOT BE PREACHED TO THE BLACK PEOPLE WHO HAVE TO FACE VIOLENCE EVERY DAY ON THE STREETS OF THIS COUNTRY... THIS WAS SAID IN A TELEPHONE CONVERSATION BETWEEN RADIO HABANA AND FLOYD MCKISSICK. WHEN ASKED ABOUT THE POSSIBLE CONSEQUENCES OF THE ASSASSINATION OF KING, MCKISSICK REPLIED - I REPEAT THAT WE ARE MAKING NO PREDICTIONS, BUT THE

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29884 PAGE ONE

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29884 PAGE TWO

AMERICAN NEGRO IS NOT WILLING TO CONTEMPLATE IMPASSIBLY THE ASSASSINATION OF OUR LEADERS, OUR HEROES, AND OUR PEOPLE.!

EM GRANMA, 9 APRIL, PAGE 3 - ARTICLE BY JUAN MARRERO ENTITLED, JJTHE AMERICAN NEGROES ARE WRITING THEIR FINEST PAGE OF HEROISM. AGAINST ALL THAT AND MUCH MORE, THE NEGROES ROSE UP TODAY IN MORE THAN SIXTY CITIES. AND IT IS LOGICAL TO EXPECT NEW PAGES OF HEROISM.

STOKELY CARMICHAEL, THE NEGRO LEADER, GAVE THIS WARNING ONE DAY AFTER THE DEATH OF MARTIN LUTHER KING - WHAT HAPPENED ON THE NIGHT WE LEARNED OF THE ASSASSINATION OF DR KING IS NOTHING COMPARED TO WHAT IS GOING TO HAPPEN.

RN GRANMA, 9 APRIL, PAGE - THE WIDOW OF LUTHER KING HEADS THE MARCH IN MEMPHIS. THE ARTICLE TELLS ABOUT THE MARCH AND SHOWS PHOTOGRAPHS OF IT.

TM RADIO REBELDE NEWSCAST, 9 APRIL 1755 A.M. - A TENSE CALM REIGNS IN THE U.S. BUT IT IS A PRELUDE TO SERIOUS EVENTS. NATIONAL MOURNING DECREED BY LYNDON JOHNSON FOR YESTERDAY, 8 APRIL MARKS A LESSENING OF DEMONSTRATIONS WHICH ARE EXPECTED TO START UP AGAIN AT ANY MOMENT.

YM RADIO REBELDE NEWSCAST, 9 APRIL 7955 - FORWARD WITH BLACK POWER UNTIL CAPITALIST MISERY, THE FUNDAMENTAL CAUSE OF HUMAN INJUSTICE, IS OVERTHROWN SAID THE SOCIALIST PARTY OF CHILE IN A CABLEGRAM SENT TO THE AMERICAN NEGRO LEADER STOKELY CARMICHAEL ON THE OCCASION OF THE ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING.

UM RADIO LIBERACION, 9 APRIL /1230 P.M./ - THIS NEWSCAST REFERS TO A DEMONSTRATION IN WHICH 200 LATIN AMERICAN, ASIAN, AND AFRICAN STUDENT'S WERE SAID TO HAVE PARTICIPATED IN FRONT OF THE U.S. EMBASSY IN WARSAW, POLAND, AS A PROTEST OVER THE DEATH OF MARTIN LUTHER KING.

MARK F. EFFIELD
DISTRIBUTION

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29884 PAGE TWO

--- Page 8 ---

14-00000

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29884 PAGE THREE

VIA TELEPOUCH
3 A C/WHD
2 A C/WH/COG
2 A C/WOLIME

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29884 PAGE THREE

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000

SECRET
(WHEN FILLED IN)

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS:
PRIOR TO FILING TO: ACTION BRANCH

1. Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back flap if file no. and title shown are not proper, and forward to RID. insert proper file no. below and forward document to RID/AN.
2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records significant action taken or comments requiring preservation.

PROPER FILE NO.

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES
FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

FILE TITLE: 201-760966 and X-into 19-4-105
Reclassify into 19-4-105

FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE): 019-004-105

--- Page 10 ---

14-00000

SECRET TELEPOUCH
DISP NO UFGA-29877
FILE NO - NONE
DATE 9 APRIL 1968

INDEXING NONE
MICROFILM NONE

TO: CHIEF WH DIVISION
INFO: CHIEF, WH/COG - CHIEF, WOL-IKE
FROM: CHIEF OF STATION, JMWAVE.

SUBJECT: SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA TREATMENT OF THE DEATH OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, 8 APRIL 1968

THE FOLLOWING SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA COVERAGE OF THE MARTIN LUTHER KING ASSASSINATION DURING THE PERIOD 5-8 APRIL HAS BEEN PREPARED BY THE AMOT S-

QM GRANMA HAVANA DAILY NEWSPAPER OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF CUBA, 7 APRIL 68, FRONT PAGE LAST MINUTE NEWS - MARTIN LUTHER KING ASSASSINATED IN MEMPHIS, U.S.A. ACCORDING TO FIRST REPORTS, LUTHER KING HAS BEEN SHOT BY A WHITE WELL-DRESSED YOUNG MALE.

GRANMA 8 APRIL, FRONT PAGE - TWENTY-SEVEN PERSONS HAVE BEEN KILLED IN THE U.S. AS A RESULT OF THE FIGHTING WHICH HAS BEEN GOING ON SINCE THE ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING. IN WASHINGTON ALONE THERE ARE 750 WOUNDED AND 4,186 PERSONS ARRESTED. SNIPERS CONTINUE TO BE ACTIVE IN DIFFERENT CITIES IN THE U.S. THE WHITE HOUSE AND THE CAPITOL ARE UNDER HEAVY GUARD /FULL INFORMATION GIVEN./

EM GRANMA, 8 APRIL, LAST PAGE - TO RICHMOND TO LIBERATE RAP BROWN. WASHINGTON, 7 APRIL, ASSOCIATED FRENCH PRESS - AFP, FRENCH NEWS AGENCY AMX LEAFLETS WERE DISTRIBUTED HERE THIS MORNING, URGING THE NEGRO PEOPLE OF WASHINGTON TO GO TO RICHMOND TO LIBERATE RAP BROWN. THE LEAFLETS CALLED ON THE NEGROES TO FORM A MOTOR-CADE AND LEAVE FOR RICHMOND TOMORROW, MONDAY.

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE ONE

--- Page 11 ---

14-00000

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE TWO

A. GRANMA, 8 APRIL, LAST PAGE - ARTICLE ENTITLED PRINCIPAL NEGRO ORGANIZATIONS IN THE U.S. BY JUANA CARRASCO.

THE ARTICLE SAYS THAT NEGRO ORGANIZATIONS ARE DIVIDED INTO TWO GROUPS - THE VIOLENT ONES AND THE NON-VIOLENT ONES. IT MENTIONS THE FOLLOWING AMONG THOSE WHICH ADVOCATE THE USE OF VIOLENCE CONGRESS OF RACIAL EQUALITY CORE, STUDENT NON-VIOLENT COORDINATING COMMITTEE /SNCC/, BLACK MUSLIMS, BLACK PANTHER PARTY, BLACKSTONE RANGERS, THE ALERT PATROL, REVOLUTIONARY ACTION MOVEMENT /RAM/, THE BLACK GUARDS, THE DEACONS, AND THE U.S. THE FOLLOWING NEGRO ORGANIZATIONS ARE MENTIONED AMONG THOSE WHICH ADVOCATE NON-VIOLENCE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE /NAACP/, NATIONAL URBAN LEAGUE, AND THE SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE /SCLC/

IM GRANMA, 8 APRIL, LAST PAGE - ATTEMPTS ARE BING MADE TO BLAME CARMICHAEL FOR THE OUTBREAK OF RACIAL VIOLENCE IN THE U.S...

YM GRAMMA, 8 APRIL, LAST PAGE - RACIAL CLASHES BETWEEN NEGRO AND WHITE AMERICAN SOLDIERS IN JAPAN...:

UM GRANNA, 8 APRIL, LAST PAGE - THE AMERICAN NEGRO PEOPLE. MARTYRS OF THE NEGRO STRUGGLE

OM RADIO LIBERACION AND RADIO PROGRESO /HAVANA RADIO STATIONS/, 6 APRIL, 8 A.M. AND 12 NOON THE CHIEF OF THE MISSION TO CUBA OF THE SOUTH VIETNAMESE NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT HAS SENT A MESSAGE TO AFRO-AMERICANS ON THE ASSASSINATION OF THE LEADER, MARTIN LUTHER KING. THIS MESSAGE SAYS THAT THE CRIME WHICH WAS COMMITTED AGAINST MARTIN LUTHER KING UNMASKS THE EVIL FACE OF THE RULERS AND RACISTS OF THE UNITED STATES. THE MESSAGE OF THE VIETNAMESE MISSION IN HAVANA ENDS BY SAYING THAT, WITH THE ASSASSINATION OF LUTHER KING, ALL THAT HAS BEEN ACCOMPLISHED BY THE RULERS OF THE UNITED STATES IS TO POUR OIL ONTO THE FLAMES OF THE STRUGGLE OF AFRO-AMERICANS,

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE TWO

--- Page 12 ---

14-00000

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE THREE

AND THAT THESE FLAMES ARE RISING VIOLENTLY TO PUT AN END TO ALL THE OPPRESSION AND INJUSTICE WHICH IS FOUND IN THE UNITED STATES, WHICH HINDERS THE ADVANCEMENT OF THE MILLIONS OF PEOPLE IN THE ENTIRE COUNTRY.

OPM RADIO LIBERACION, 8 APRIL, 7 P.M. - STOKELY CARMICHAEL LEADER OF BLACK POWER, SAID JWE NEGROES MUST ARM OURSELVES WITH RIFLES AND PISTOLS AND LAUNCH AN ASSAULT ON THE STREETS OF THE CITIES OF THE UNITED STATES IN REPRISAL FOR KING'S ASSASSINATION. CARMICHAEL PREDICTED THAT THERE WILL BE EXECUTIONS IN THE STREETS AS A RESULT OF KING'S ASSASSINATION. HE ALSO PREDICTED. THAT THE VIOLENCE WHICH HAS BEEN UNLEASHED BY NEGROES AS A RESULT OF KING'S DEATH WILL BE PALE AS COMPARED TO WHAT WILL HAPPEN IN AMERICAN CITIES."

SOM RADIO HABANA, 8 APRIL, 7 P.M. HIS KING'S/ DEATH SHOWS ONCE AGAIN THAT THE EXPLOITED MASSES CAN ONLY ANSWER REACTIONARY VIOLENCE WITH REVOLUTIONARY VIOLENCE."

W RADIO PROGRESO, 8 APRIL, 7 P.M. - CARMICHAEL SAID DURING A TELEPHONE INTERVIEW THAT A SERIOUS MISTAKE HAS BEEN MADE IN ASSASSINATING. DR. KING BECAUSE HE HAD BEEN THE LEADER OF A MOVEMENT WHICH URGED THE NEGRO PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES NOT TO BURN THE CITIES, NOT TO COMMIT ACTS OF VIOLENCE. THIS MEANS THAT IT WILL BE NECESSARY TO START AN ALL-OUT REVOLUTION. CARMICHAEL ADDED SERIOUS INCIDENTS HAVE TAKEN PLACE IN 35 CITIES WHERE THERE HAVE BEEN FIRES, SHOOTING, FIGHTING, AND DEATHS AS A RESULT OF THE CRIME COMMITTED AGAINST DR. KING. NATURALLY, OTHER SIMILAR THINGS WILL TAKE PLACE. GUERRILLA WARFARE WILL RAPIDLY SPREAD THROUGH THE CITIES BECAUSE IT IS ALREADY EVIDENT THAT WE CANNOT OPENLY REBEL AGAINST THE POLICE. STOKELY CARMICHAEL ENDED THE INTERVIEW BY SENDING AFFECTIONATE REGARDS TO THE REVOLUTIONARY CUBAN PEOPLE AND THEIR LEADER, FIDEL CASTRO RUZ."

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE THREE

--- Page 13 ---

14-00000

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE FOUR

13. RADIO HABANA, 8 APRIL, 8 P.M. JUAN MARI/ BRAS, SECRETARY-GENERAL OF THE MOVEMENT FOR THE INDEPENDENCE OF PUERTO RICO, MADE THE FOLLOWING STATEMENTS IN A LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE INTERVIEW - DR. LUTHER KING'S ASSASSINATION WILL UNDOUBTEDLY PRECIPITATE THE REBELLION OF THE NEGRO PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES AGAINST ALL THE ABUSES OF WHICH THEY HAVE BEEN THE OBJECT.

14. RADIO HABANA, 5 APRIL, 8 P.M. - THE EXECUTIVE SECRETARIAT OF THE ASIAN, AFRICAN, AND LATIN AMERICAN PEOPLES SOLIDARITY ORGANIZATION (AALAPSO) SENT A MESSAGE OF CONDOLENCE TO THE SNCC ON THE ASSASSINATION OF LUTHER KING. THE AALAPSO'S MESSAGE TO THE AMERICAN PACIFIST ORGANIZATION ENDS AS FOLLOWS - WE BEG YOU TO EXPRESS TO THE FAMILY OF MARTIN LUTHER KING AND TO ALL AFRO-AMERICANS OUR DEEPEST SORROW OVER HIS DEATH, OUR DECISION TO SUPPORT YOUR STRUGGLE, AND OUR DEEP CONVICTION THAT THIS TERRIBLE CRIME--WHICH SHOWS US THAT ARMED REVOLUTIONARY VIOLENCE IS THE ONLY WAY OF ACHIEVING GENUINE LIBERATION--WILL HELP STRENGTHEN THE STRUGGLE OF THE AFRO-AMERICAN PEOPLE WHICH IS ALREADY AIMED IN THE DIRECTION OF TOTAL CONFRONTATION.

15. RADIO HABANA, 7 APRIL, 8 P.M. - AGUSTIN GONZALEZ MARTINEZ, BISHOP OF THE EPISCOPAL CHURCH OF CUBA, MADE THE FOLLOWING STATEMENTS IN A SPECIAL INTERVIEW - MAY THE TRAGIC DISAPPEARANCE OF THIS GREAT LEADER AT LEAST HELP TO SPEED UP THE ARRIVAL OF THE DAY WHEN EVERY MAN IN HIS NATION AND IN ALL OTHER NATIONS WILL BE TREATED WITH THE RESPECT WHICH IS DUE TO THEM AS HUMAN BEINGS.'

16. RADIO HABANA, 8 APRIL, 8 P.M. - REVEREND RAFAEL PASTOR OF THE PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH IN LUYANO, HAVANA, MADE THE FOLLOWING STATEMENTS IN A SPECIAL INTERVIEW - HIS BROTHERS, THE AMERICAN NEGROES, WILL LEARN MUCH FROM HIS DEATH. WE CAN ALMOST ASSURE THAT THEY, THE AMERICAN NEGROES WHOSE DIGNITY AND DECORUM HAS BEEN CRUSHED, WILL COME BACK TO LIFE AFTER CENTURIES OF LETHARGY AND

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE FOUR

--- Page 14 ---

14-00000

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE FIVE

WILL RISE FROM THEIR GRAVES AND FORM AN INVINCIBLE ARMY.'

17. RADIO LIBERACION, 8 APRIL, 7 P.M. - EDITORIAL COMMENTS CRITICIZING THE NON-VIOLENT LINE WHICH WAS ADVOCATED BY LUTHER KING, SAYING THAT THIS LINE WAS INOPERATIVE MARTIN LUTHER KING, DID NOT PREACH VIOLENCE BUT HE WAS THE VICTIM OF VIOLENCE. HE DID NOT UNLEASH VIOLENCE BUT VIOLENCE MOVED HIM DOWN.'

18. RADIO HABANA, 7 APRIL 68, 7 P.M. - JOHNSON POSTPONED HIS TRIP. HE CALLED THE CIVIL RIGHTS LEADERS--WHO WERE MORE OR LESS UNDER CONTROL--TO GO TO THE WHITE HOUSE. JOHNSON APPEARED ON TELEVISION. HE EXPRESSED HIS ANGUISH AND HIS SORROW. THE MADE INSPIRED COMMENTS ABOUT MARTIN LUTHER KING. THESE ACTIONS AND THESE WORDS HIDE FEAR OVER THE WAVE OF JUST VIOLENCE WHICH IS STARTING TO SPREAD THROUGH THE UNITED STATES. AT A TIME WHEN COMPLEX INTERNATIONAL NEGOTIATIONS MIGHT BE UNDERWAY, UNDER DIFFICULT CONDITIONS THIS NEW CRIME WIDENS THE CHASM WHICH DIVIDES THE PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES AND INCITES THE PEOPLE TO PROMOTE DISTURBANCES WHOSE FAR-REACHING EFFECTS ARE HARD TO PREDICT." THE ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING CONFIRMS THAT THE VIOLENCE OF IMPERIALIST RACISTS IS ONLY ANSWERED EFFECTIVELY WITH THE VIOLENCE OF THE REVOLUTIONARY STRUGGLE

MARK F. EFFIELD
DISTRIBUTION

VIA TELEPOUCH
3 A C/WHD
2 A C/WH/COG
2 A C/WOLIME

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE FIVE

--- Page 15 ---

14-00000

SECRET
(WHEN FILLED IN)

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS:
PRIOR TO FILING TO: ACTION BRANCH

1. Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back flap if file no. and title shown are not proper, and forward to RID. insert proper file no. below and forward document to RID/AN.
2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records significant action taken or comments requiring preservation.

PROPER FILE NO.

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES
FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

FILE TITLE: CHRONO DETACHED
JEG PROGRAM

FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE): 201-760966
DOCUMENT DATE:
DOCUMENT NUMBER: HOCA 07012

--- Page 16 ---

14-00000

SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION
ACTION: PROPOSED ACCOMPLISHED
MARKED FOR INDEXING NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED HEADQUARTERS DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING ABSTRACT MICROFILM

FROM: Chief of Station, Santo Domingo

SUBJECT: Communist Comments on the Death of Martin Luther King/ Reference to "Black Power" Concept

REFERENCES:

ACTION REQUIRED: Attached for Headquarters retention are one copy each of statements on the death of Martin Luther King by the Dominican Communist Party (PCD), the Communist 14th of June Revolutionary Movement (MR-1J4), and various trade unions. All appeared in the 7 April 1968 issue of El Nacional.

2. The text of the PCD statement makes reference to the visit of Stokely Carmichael to the Latin American Solidarity Organization Conference (LASO), quotes a statement by Fidel Castro on Carmichael and the concept of "Black Power," and expresses the solidarity of the PCD with the struggle of North American Negroes. The MR-1J4 statement, only available in gist, says that King's death reveals the profound crisis existing within US society and shows that for the "racist forces," violence is the only law and is applied to internal and external enemies alike.

3. Neither statement issues a call to violence on the part of US Negroes.

ATTACHMENT: As Stated

DISTRIBUTION:
Chief, WH Division w/att
Files

Stewart R. PATAKER

DATE TYPED: 10 Apr 68
DATE DISPATCHED:
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: HDCA 7012

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER: 022-4-16

SECRET

--- Page 17 ---

14-00000

Condenan Asesinato De Martin Luther King

Dos organizaciones izquierdistas condenaron hoy la muerte del reverendo Martin Luther King.

En comunicados separados el Partido Comunista Dominicano y el Movimiento Revolucionario 14 de Junio dicen solidarizarse con el movimiento negro de los Estados Unidos.

El PCD demandó de las organizaciones políticas y sindicales desarrollar actividades en apoyo a la lucha de los negros norteamericanos.

Por su parte el 14 de Junio consideró que el asesinato del Premio Nobel de la Paz revela la profunda crisis en que ha entrado la sociedad norteamericana.

El PCD señala que el asesinato del líder pacifista ha tenido justa respuesta en la violencia desatada en las ciudades más importantes de Los Estados Unidos que ha obligado a que el presidente Johnson cancelara su viaje al exterior para conversaciones de paz en Vietnam.

Dice respaldar la rebellión, y los pronunciamientos del líder negro Stokely Carmichael ya que el único camino en los Estados Unidos para librarse de la violencia de los males que padece ese pueblo es la violencia revolucionaria que derrumbará el sistema imperialista.

Entiende la organización política que la muerte del reverendo Luther King es una gran enseñanza para los de su raza que sufren la opresión racista.

--- Page 18 ---

14-00000

PARTIDO COMUNISTA DOMINICANO (PCD)

¡Nuestra solidaridad plena con la lucha de los negros norteamericanos, como parte que es de la lucha de todos los oprimidos de la tierra!

El régimen de los monopolios imperialistas norteamericanos se conmueve por la acción de los pueblos desde fuera con Viemam al frente, y desde dentro con el gran movimiento por los derechos civiles y por la paz El asesinato de Luther King, será presentado como la obra de la mano fanática de un racista; pero queda clara la responsabilidad de los interesados en liquidar la acción civil por la violencia, de los interesados en imponer la mordaza a los reclamos del pueblo que cada vez más lucha organizada mente y que comprende los objetivos de esa lucha, de los monopolios imperialistas.

La violencia engendra violencia. Muchos siglos de explotación y de represión han pasado hasta que en los últimos años el negro norteamerican comienza a organizar su resistencia; y en ello el papel de her King es innegable, de los más altos meritos, de la más encomiable abnegación, aunque su prédica de pas no haya sido comprensible por todos los oprimidos ni la más apropiada como lo demuestra su su propia muerte.

Los negros constiti en los Estados Unidos el sector más explotado de la clase obrera en el nivel de sueldos, en la discriminación social que asume formas raciales, en la proporción de les que participan en el ejército, en los planes de seguros sociales, por lo que la discriminación y su respuesta en la lucha por los derechos civiles tiene características esencialmente clasistas aunque asuma formas raciales, y por lo que crecientemente este fenómeno es comprendido por las propias masas blancas que apoyan los reclamos civiles de la población de raza africana marginada de la sociedad.

--- Page 19 ---

Fidel Castro dijo en la clausura de la Conferencia de la Organización Latinoamericana de Solidaridad, donde Stokely Carmichael representaba a los norteamericanos organizados en el Poder Negro.

Y es que de ese sector negro, por ser el sector más explotado y reprimido, más brutalmente maltratado en Estados Unidos, surgirá la vanguardia revolucionaria en el seno de los Estados Unidos; y alrededor de ese movimiento revolucionario, que no surge en ese sector por problemas de raza, sino que surge por el problema social, por, problema de explotación y opresión, y porque constituye ese sector el más sufrido, por la ley de la historia igual que en todas las épocas de la historia: como ocurrió con los plebejos en Roma, con los siervos de la gleba en la Edad Média, con los obreros y los campesinos en los tiempos contemporáneos: en la sociedad americana, de ese sector oprimido surgirá el movimiento revolucionario'.

Tan sólo unos días han pasado desde el momento en que Johnson anunciara el retro de su candidatura presidencial, para fomentar la ilusión de que los políticos llamados liberales llegarían al poder en los próximos meses con su programa de Paz en Vietnam y de respeto a los derechos civiles, cuando la bala disparada contra Luther King, colocara, su silbido de violencia como la tónica de la política norteamericana inme-diata, Los quo tienen el poder, los monopolios armameaustas, no lo dejarán pacíficamente, no permiurán la suspensión y la derrota en la guerra de Vietnam sia resistir pór todos los medios, sin plantear su propia salida de violencia á todas las masas del mundo,

La muerte de Luther King no es la obra de un fanático, sino que significa la política de un grupo social poderoso, La muerte de Kennedy en poco tiempo se indentifico con una nueva política. La muerte de King es un rasgo más de la in-minencia de nuevas y más feroces acciones del imperialismo, 18. de un entronizamiento de la violencia en el poder estatal, que sólo será vencida con el triunfo de los pueblos; y en esa lucha el pueblo negro norteamericano tendrá un importante papel que jugar, Juega ya un importante papel, del lado de todos los pueblos a del mundo.

Nuestra solidaridad plena con la lucha de los negros norteame-ricanos, como parte que es de la lucha, de todos los oprimidos de la tierra!.

Secretariado del Comité Central del Partido Comunista Dominicano.
Santo Domingo, 6 de abril de 1968.

(ESPACIO PAGADO)

--- Page 20 ---

14-00000

(ESPACIO PAGADO)

¡PROTESTAMOS POR EL ASESINATO DE MARTIN LUTHER KING!
¡SOLIDARIDAD CON LOS NEGROS EN LUCHA!

Martin Luther King, líder pacifista del movimiento negro norteamericano, Premio Nobel de la Paz, ha sido asesinado por los opresores de su pueblo y de todos los pueblos explotados del Mundo.

SU DELITO: Luchar por la liberación de los negros, contra la discriminación racial, contra las veraciones y la explotación que sufren sus hermanos de raza en los Estados Unidos. Es el "delito" que le cargan quienes gobiernan para el mal a todos aquellos que se retélan, que luchan por la libertad,

La muerte de King ba conmovido al Mundo porque evidencia en forma alarmante hasta donde pueden llegar los ricachones racistas que controlan el poder en los Estados Unidos.

La violenta rebeldía de los negros y de todos los democratas corienta de nuevo estremecer la sociedad norteamericana.

La solidaridad internacional con su causa se expresa en multiples formas.

Y nosotros, los obreros dominicanos, elevamos nuestra voz de protesta y llamamos a la solidaridad activa con toda manifestación de lucha, que dentro y fuera de los Estados Unidos, exprese el repudio a ese hecho bochornoso.

Adoptamos esta actitud conscientes de que al sumarnos a la protesta mundial nos colocamos junto al sector más oprimido y vejado de la clase obrera norteame-ricana: los trabajadores negros. Y de que nos situamos de frente a los poderosos que con hipocresía unos y con cinismo otros, dicen lamentar, la muerte del líder negro, mientras preparan las bayonetas para tratar de aplastar la lucha desencade-nada,

Nada han hecho los gobernantes y oligarcas de nuestra tierra en protesta por el asesinato de Luther. King. Duelos interminables hubieran realizado si la acción justiciera de los pueblos hubiera terminado con la vida de Johnson o de otro magnate de la explotación imperialista. Pero Luther King era un representante de los aegrus explotados, un luchador por los derechos civiles de los negros que à su entender no merecía homenaje alguno.

Sin embargo, Luther King tiene en nosotros a sus representantes dominicanos, a los que encaramos en esta terra los intereses del trabajo y del progreso de toda la humanidad. Y por eso, en esta ocasión, también damos un paso al frente:

Llamamos a todos los bombres honestos de nuestra Patria a manifestir su solidaridad con la causa de los negros norteamericanos.

Llamamos a las demás organizaciones de trabajadores a repudiar el asesinato de Luther King y a solidarizarse con la lucha de los negros norteamericanos,

Llámamos a la Universidad Autónoma de Santo Domingo y a los ajuntamientos democráticos del pafs, para que, amparados en su autonomía, declaren tres días de duelo por el asesinato de Luther King.

Que en las fábricas, en las escuelas, en las oficinas y en todos los centros de trabajo se rinda homenaje al líder asesinado y se exprese nuestro apoyo al pueblo negro de los Estados Unidos que es criminalmente colocado en la primera línea de fuego en Viet Nam, al mismo tiempo que en su propio pafs se le somete a la más cruel explotación.

¡MANTENGAMOS LA SOLIDÁRIDAD ACTIVA HASTA QUE NUESTROS HERMA-NOS NEGROS DE LOS ESTADOS UNIDOS CONQUISTEN TODOS SUS DERECHOS!

FEDERACION DE TRABAJADORES REVOLUCIONARIOS UNIDOS DEL DISTRITO NACIONAL (FETRUDISNA)
FEDERACION NACIONAL DE TRABAJADORES PORTUARIOS-
FEDERACION NACIONAL DE TRABAJADORES DE LA INDUSTRIA DE LA CONSTRUCCION Y SUS AFINES (FENATRAICA)
SINDICATO PORTUARIO DE LOS MOLINOS DOMINICANOS
SINDICATO DE TRABAJADORES PORTUARIOS DE ARRIMO (POASD):
SINDICATO DE TRABAJADORES DE LOS MOLINOS DOMINICANOS
SINDICATO DE LA SOCIEDAD INDUSTRIAL DOMINICANA (MANICERA)
ASOCIACION DE CHOFERES INDEPENDIENTES (ASOCHOIN),
ASOCIACION DE EMPLEADOS DE LA UNIVERSIDAD AUTONOMA DE SANTO DOMINGO
SINDICATO DE TRABAJADORES TELEFONICOS
SINDICATO DE COBRADORES DE AUTOBUSES DE SANTO DOMINGO
SINDICATO DE OPERARIOS SASTRES DEL DISTRITO NACIONAL
SINDICATO DE OBREROS Y EMPLEADOS DEL AYUNTAMIENTO DEL DISTRITO NACIONAL
SINDICATO DE LA PAPELERA INDUSTRIAL
SINDICATO NACIONAL DE CARPINTEROS

El Nacional
7 april 1968,

--- Page 21 ---

14-00000

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT: KING, MARTIN LUTHER
DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION: 201-760966
SEX M 008
CIT ?
OCC 7

RI FILE NO. 201-811911
DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL.NO. OBC -09700
DATE 11 MAR 68
SOURCE, CRYPTONYM DATE OF INFO. FBI
EVALUATION
DATE PROCESSED
DATE
10. DISSEMIN