14-00000

104-10175-10114 | | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

DISPATCH 16-3
Station: Eastern Hemisphere Division

Reference: MEXICO CITY 23282

1. In accordance with a policy decision to keep EKKERAL contact
with U.S. business representatives discreet, a small luncheon was held
in lieu of the customary formal briefings in the Headquarters building.
OPERATIONAL ENTITY 1, David C. HIGBY and Floyd N. ALMONET
attended the luncheon, which was characterized by cordiality and candor.
OPERATIONAL ENTITY 1 waited until the conclusion of the meeting to raise his
current favorite subject, that of countering the leftist propaganda
contained in SIEMPRE. Fortunately, HIGBY was disregarded and
effectively turned and the thrust of the effort upon ACETONE-1's
shoulders, without offending him. IDENTITY 1 impressed HIGBY with
his interest, intelligence and sincerity. He offered the services of
IDENTITY 1 in the thing" on our behalf but was convinced by HIGBY
that the best way to approach the problem was through the
use of individual members, rather than through IDENTITY 2 as an
organization.

2. Discussions were held concerning Mexican affairs as well as
Hemispheric trends. In the former category, our guests were most
disturbed about the nationalization process in Mexico and enumerated

(continued)

Attachment:
IDENTITIES (USC)

Distribution:
3 [COS, Mexico City] (W/Att. USC)

CROSS REFERENCE:

Distribution:
1-WH CHRONO
1-20

SECRET

201-030989

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

SYMBOL AND NUMBER: HMMW-16453

the latest cases with some alarm. OPERATIONAL ENTITY 1 reposted his prediction
that President ECHEVERRIA would effectively nationalize more private
investment in Mexico before the end of his term.

3. The meeting was judged effective and afforded HIGBY the
opportunity to lay the ground work for his future relations with
IDENTITY 2 members, while satisfying the guests' need for reassurances
that our goals were parallel. They appeared happy with the conversations.

Despite the informality.

Floyd N. ALMONET

14-00000

SECRET

UNDER SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT TO: HMMW-10453

IDENTITY #1 - George Blake, V.P. c/o American Chamber of
Commerce

IDENTITY #2 - American Chamber of Commerce Mexico

SECRET
