```markdown
14-00000
104-10193-10160 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: NATIONAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY
(WEST GERMAN) & ITS ACTION GROUP
HITLER WELLE.
INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:
DELETIONS, IF ANY:
ROOM:

DATE DATE
RECEIVED RETURNED REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

National Demokratische Partei Deutschlands (National Democratic Party of Germany)

Combined Deutsche Rechtspartei, Deutsche Reichspartei, the split off Sozialistiche
Reichspartei and the Deutsche Partei.

In August 1964 von Thaden arranged a meeting with other right-wingers to promote
unification of all nationalist forces. Friedrich Thielen served as both front
man and financial backer. A committee of 10 drafted a constitution which was
accepted in November 1964 by representatives of the DRP, DF, GLP and the DVNP (Deutsche-
National Volkspartei). The DRP officially dissolved in December 1965 although the
NPD had, in fact, long been the nationalist party. At the 21 March 1967 meeting
of the NPD Executive Committee, the more moderate Thielen (former Deutsche Partei)
was ousted from the NPD by the more extreme von Thaden forces (DRP). There was
no major rush to leave the NPD, however. Recent reporting has indicated that those
who did leave the NPD, even including Thielen, are being invited back into the NPD.

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

NEW SCORE CARD

1. Bundestag Elections 1965 - NPD's first Effort

2. 13 March 1966, Communal Elections, Schleswig-
Holstein. (NPD Has directive
not to participate. A few did)

3. 13 March 1966, Bavarian Communal Elections
NPD major effort concentrated
only in Franconia.

4. 27 March 1966 Hamburg Burgerschaft Election
664,187 votes = 2%
In 11 communities where
NPD ran candidates,
averaged 10.5% of vote
compared with 6% in same
towns in 1965.

5. 10 July 1966 Northrhein-Westphalia Landtag Election
No NPD candidates elected none entered.
1.6 % of total Bavarian
vote but:

Middle Franconia =
Ansbach - 5.1%
Erlangen - 8.2%
Nürnberg- 7.3%
Schwabach- 5.6%

Upper Franconia
Bayreuth - 8.2%
Coburg - 5.3%
Kulmbach - 5.8%
+ 2 village mayors

3.9% (1.6% in 1965)
no candidates elected

6. 16 October 1966 Hamlin Byelection (Communal Council)

7. 6 November 1966 Hesse Landtag Elections
8.1% (1965= ) 2 seats
221,500 votes = 7.9%+
8 Seats in Landtag
Marburg, Wiesbaden, Barnstadt
and Giessen =ca 10%

8. 20 November 1966 Bavarian Landtag Elections
FT/M = 8.1%
votes= 7.4%
15 Seats in Landtag

9. 23 April 1967 Rheinland-Palatine 4 Seats, 5.9% of vote

10. 23 April 1967 Schleswig-Holstein 4 Seats, 5.7 % of vote

11. 4 June 1967 Lower Saxony 10 Seats, 7 % of vote

12. 11 October 1967 Bremen Burgerschaft 8 Seats, 8.8 % of vote

13. 28 April 1968 Baden-Württemberg 12 Seats, 9.8 % of vote

14. 8 Sept 1969 Federov Suits 4.3% of vote

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000
JUNE 8, 1974

The Hitler Boom
by Charles Lam Markmann

Heidelberg

Had he lived Adolf Hitler would have been 83 years
old on April 20. And it was on this April 20 that the
forces responsible for the ouster of Chancellor Willy
Brandt —for things must be called by their right names
—had almost finished preparing West Germany for
her start on the short march back to the past One
hears everywhere: "we only had a strong man
again." On the fashionable North Sea resort island of
Sylt, Hitler's birthday was celebrated in the best Na-
tional Socialist style by several dozen Germans, none
youngest 15, and all of them arrested on
having circulated or displayed Nazi sym-
bols; the young men wore brown shirts and swastika
armbands; the girls frumped themselves up in the
dowdy blue skirts and white middy blouses of the
Bund deutscher Mädel (League of German Girls), the
auxiliary of the Hitler Jugend. The walls of the room in
which they held their party were decorated with pic-
tures of Hitler and other National Socialist emblems
for which they had scoured Schleswig-Holstein. After
they had listened to records of Hitler’s and other Nazi
leaders’ speeches and of old party march music, they
drank a toast to the führer.

When they were arrested, one of the young men
said the party had been planned merely as “ein guter
Gag.” Perhaps so. But for millions of other Germans
the re-creation of “the Nazi time” is serious business
for some, because they want those good old days back,
and for a few because they fear the others may very
easily get their wish when the Federal Republic of
Germany must at last put its democracy to the test.

The fear is heightened by the steady and at times spec-
tacular rise in what is called die Hitlerwelle —the Hitler
wave, or Hitler boom—which has kept pace with the
economic crisis, price levels and unemployment The
number of jobless has doubled since December

It is as much a Hitler and Hitler-associated boom as
a Nazi boom This is not to say that Nazi thinking has
no following in West Germany—quite the contrary,
as the letters-to-the-editor columns of newspapers
demonstrate. In Bavaria—Nürnberg (indeed where
else?), in a 17th-century Franconian castle, a 25-man
“army” of youths trains regularly, with the same steel
helmets and rifles that the Wehrmacht used from 1939
to 1945. Their leader is a sign-painter named Karl-
Heinz Hoffmann, whose goals are simple: the destruc-
tion of communism and big capital, the end of parlia-
mentary rule, government by an unelected elite, the
annexation of Austria (which, as the Weimar Consti-
tution makes clear in Article 61, was also the goal of
the first German “republic”), and the reunification of
the Federal Republic of Germany and the German
Democratic Republic.

There is a core of some 120,000 regular readers of the
National Zeitung, which for two decades has been
whitewashing the Nazi era, “proving” that the only
concentration and extermination camps were those
built after the war by German prisoners under Ameri-
can orders, for propaganda purposes (there are even
pictures!): promoting a brisk trade in Nazi medals, uni-
forms weapons and other memorabilia, as well as
books and recordings of speeches party congresses,
narrations of military campaigns (victorious ones),
and engaging in a faintly subtle anti-Semitism. There
is no need for blatancy, after all the Jews were only the
first and most conspicuous of Nazi targets: Twelve
or so million non-Jews murdered by the Germans died
just as painfully—facts that are almost daily branded
as “lies” in letters to new papers, occasionally in dem-
onstrations, less infrequently in swastika-daubings
and cemetery vandalism

But these things—the Sylt birthday party, Hoff-
mann’s army (which ought to be taken seriously—
the Nazi party’s strength rose to seven members when
Hitler joined it), the National Zeitung, the “antiquar-
ians” whose windows and shops are filled exclusively
with Wilhelmine and especially National Socialist
artifacts à la vertu—are only symptoms of the Hitler-
welle. The real thing is far more widespread, far deeper
and more respectable: in West Berlin alone there are
more than 500 cars bearing registration plates that,
after the mandatory “B” (for Berlin), carry such letter
combines as SS, SA, HJ, KZ before the various
numerals. These designations—for Schutzstaffel
(Elite Guard), Sturmabteilung (Storm Troops), Hitler
Jugend, Konzentrationslager (Concentration camp)—
have not been issued routinely. They are issued by
request, and Karl Koenig, the Social Democrat who
heads the city’s Economics Department, the issuing
office, explains that under West German law such re-
quests cannot be refused. (I am not for one moment
implying that the law should be revised: one does not
fight ideas, or even brute hatreds, with muzzles.) The

CHARLES LAM MARKMANN, critic, translator and journal-
ist, is at work on a book about the two German republics.

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000

same kinds of plates are visible in many other parts of
Federal Germany.

There are now in print literally thousands of paper-
back titles dealing with every possible aspect of the
Third Reich and its personalities. There are serious,
analytical histories that sacrifice success for integrity;
on the other hand two big, exhaustive, expensive bio-
graphies of Hitler are selling more than well, and one
of them, by Joachim C. Fest, an editor of the arch-
reactionary Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, has gone
well past 275,000 copies at almost $20 apiece—the
publishers have 25,000 more ready and waiting in
the warehouse. This book makes much of Hitler’s
“modernity,” little of his barbarities: he was necessary
to his time. The other, which is much more overtly an
apologia is by Werner Maser, who teaches the Hitler
era at the University of Munich. It has sold 30,000
copies. It endeavors to create the impression that, had
he not had certain problems arising out of misguided
medication in 1938, Hitler would have done more good
(and less harm).

In addition there are the big hardcover editions of
Hitler’s speeches (four volumes) and Propaganda Min-
ister Paul Joseph Goebbels’ (two volumes), four new
books about Rudolf Hess, Hitler’s deputy who is now,
at 80, the last prisoner in Spandau, innumerable radio
and television programs dealing with various aspects
and personalities of the period, and, most lately, a fort-
nightly publication, Das dritte Reich; planned to cover
the whole NS-Zeit for popular consumption in two
years, and then expire.

The Allies—especially the Americans—for a long
time forbade any mention whatever of the Hitler
period, and West Germany, once it became a more or
less independent state, continued these bans for years.
Even more than other peoples, Germans have the
touching notion that censorship and repression will
effectively eliminate ideas and facts; and, against this,
neither the left nor the right has the faintest concept
of civil liberties. Thus it is still forbidden, even though
the German Communist party has been legalized
again, to form a “Nazi” or “National Socialist” party.
Consequently the old SA and SS men organized the
totally Nazi Nationaldemokratische Partei Deutschlands.

In England and in the US there has been a revival of
interest in the Hitler era paralleling the one in West
Germany At least 12 English and American publish-
ers have capitalized on this interest. Here’s a sampling
of their recent books:

Pictures: Sieg Heil!, an illustrated history of Germany
from Bismark to Hitler, by Stefan Lorant (Norton),
more than 700 photographs and a literate text Hitler
Close-up (Macmillan), interesting because these are
the pictures taken by Hitler’s friend Heinrich Hoff-
mann, with commentary by confidant and diarist
Henry Picker.

History: Hitler’s Rise to Power, The Nazi Movement in
Bavaria, 1923-1933, by Geoffrey Pridham (Harper &
Row). In-depth answer to the question, what made
people support Hitler in the early ‘20s? Careful and
scholarly.

Military: Hitler’s War Aims, The Establishment of the
New Order, by Norman Rich (Norton) The second
volume of a huge, hugely detailed study dealing with
Hitler’s foreign policies The Rise and Fall of the Luft-
waffe, by David Irving (Little, Brown), the life of Field
Marshall Erhard Milch who was second in command
to Goering and who survived to tell much of this to the
author. The Admiral’s Wolf Pack, by Jean Noli (Double-
day), containing authentic first-hand accounts of
U-boat (Grey Wolves) actions. Battle Over the Reich,
by Alfred Price (Cambridge University Press), con-
tains pictures and text about the bombing and strafing
of German cities and towns. Part of the revival be-
cause it is Germany seen as destroyed from the air.
Hitler’s Strategy, 1940-1941, the Balkan Clue, by Martin
van Creveld (Cambridge University Press), a new view
of Hitler’s interest in the Mediterranean and his rela-
tions with Italy

Religion: German Church Struggle and the Holo-
caust (Wayne University Press), a collection of essays
that grew out at the First International Scholars’ Con-
ference in 1973.

Refugees: and Refuge, by A. J. Sherman (University
of California Press) An interesting study of how
Britain changed her policy about refugees from the
Third Reich from 1933 to 1939 and why.

Persons: Target Heydrich, by Miroslav Ivanov (Mac-
millan). Play-by-play account of the assassination of
Czech occupation head Reinhard Heydrich and the
Nazi revenge that culminated in Lidice Hitler, by
Joachim Fest (Harcourt Brace Jovanovich), the English
translation by Richard and Clara Winston of the biog-
raphy in which Fest concludes that if Hitler had died
or been killed in 1935 “we would hesitate to call him
one of the greatest of German statesmen,” which may
be why the book is seven-eighths over before we come
to the Hitler of the war years Werner Maser’s Hitler:
Legend, Myth and Reality (Harper & Row). Enormously
detailed with so many facts they obscure the man and
his works

Future: To be published by Viking in August, already
published in England (Secker & Warburg), The Lone-
liest Man in the World, the “inside story of the 30-year
imprisonment of Rudolf Hess,” inside because the
author, Eugene K. Bird, was former commandant of
Spandau Prison and seems to have won Hess’ confi-
dence Despite its promises it says very little that has
not already been known or surmised.

— The Editors

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000
JUNE 8, 1974.

which, after some initial successes, took cover
in the hardly inhospitable Christian Democratic and Chris-
tian Social Unions but has recently announced its
determination to purge itself of this “taint.” In
addition in spite of the constitutional ban (Article
18) on any use of civil liberties to endanger the unde-
fined “free democratic basic order,” the state of Lower
Saxony alone has 34 active Fascist and Nazi organiza-
tions, publishing houses, and mail-order book dis-
tributors. No one knows how many members and
customers they have because they operate furtively,
as the rather stupid law compels them to do Mut
(Courage), a monthly magazine addressing a frankly
Fascist if not Nazi program to the young in that state,
has a circulation of 10,000 and is regarded by the
Lower Saxon Minister of the Interior as potentially or
latently dangerous.

Everywhere there is curiosity about those mysteri-
ous 12 years. The teachers who taught then are still
teaching, unless superannuated, but very few of them
dare to teach what they used to teach, or even to talk
about “the past.” That is why Das dritte Reich was
founded this year: to make money out of that curiosity.
The idea was that of Hans-Peter Dietze, now its man-
aging editor, according to his editor-in-chief, Dr.
Christian Zentner, who stakes a pious claim to a de-
sire to show his young compatriots how the Third
Reich came to pass, in order to prevent its ever hap-
pening again. After four issues, Dr. Zentner is not so
sure that his publisher, the big Hamburg house of
John Jahr Verlag KG, will do much more than break
even, because, he told me, what millions of people are
insatiably interested in is not “the abstractions” of
Nazism and its history but its personalities, and in
particular Adolf Hitler. These, he says, are “simple”
people who do not read books but who watch televi-
sion and read magazines, and it was they whom he set
out to capture—to clarify the past for them.

His magazine is expensive—about $1.50 a copy. A
tremendous advertising campaign, of dubious taste,
resulted in first-issue sales some 150,000 above the
250,000 copies that the editors and publishers ex-
pected. The second issue sold between 330,000 and
340,000 copies, the third something over 250,000 so
far, and the fourth—which is still on the newsstands—
more than 200,000. The overwhelming majority of the
purchasers and subscribers, Zentner admits, seems to
include few of those young people he was looking for:
the real circulation is among the people old enough to
remember, the Nazis who write furious letters to the
editor because he tarnishes their legends. Both Dietze
and Zentner told me that the greatest sales of Das
dritte Reich are not in cities but out in the country and
the small towns, in Bavaria and Franconia especially.
One of the reasons for the phenomenal success of a
television program called “Ein Herz und eine Seele”
(“One Heart and One Soul”) is its enthusiastically en-

joyed derogations of the sub-men, by name: the Slavs,
the Jews, the Latins, the Levantines A German exag-
geration of “All in the Family,” the program plays also
on the hysterical dread of the Communists that has
been endemic here ever since the general staff real-
ized in 1918 that it had made a terrible mistake in
helping Lenin in 1917 Ex-Chancellor Willy Brandt was
a constant target because of his illegitimate birth and
his “traitorous conduct from 1935 to 1945, when he
fought against nazism, as well as his “selling out” to
“the Reds.” The program regularly attracts 60-65 per-
cent of the national audience, and only an occasional
editorial writer or commentator dares to see its popu-
larity for the danger it is. Its “left-liberal” creator,
Wolfgang Menge, claims it to be a satire and so recog-
nized because people say its protagonist, Alfred Tet-
zlaff, sounds just like Franz Josef Strauss, the head of
the CSU: but then in each regional election this year
more of them vote for the Strausses.

In mid-March the Bavarian State Radio and Televi-
sion broadcast a long interview with Hitler’s (and
Franklin Roosevelt’s) old friend, Ernst (Putzi) Hanf-
staengl, who is now 87 Though in the end—through a
rather gruesome practical joke—he felt he had to flee
to the United States in 1937, and was materially as-
sisted by Roosevelt, his old Harvard classmate, in
gaining entry (later he became an adviser on policy to
the American forces). Hanfstaengl spent his whole
time on camera telling what fine fellows Hitler, Goer-
ing, Goebbels, Himmler and the others really were,
when all was said and done—and masters of their
trades to boot: fine soldiers, geniuses at propaganda,
und so weiter. Their Weimar predecessors he belittled
and dismissed as nothings, though he admitted he
had never known much about their aspirations or
their achievements. Moreover in spite of having, with
his wife and sister, lavishly and almost single-
mindedly supported Hitler from the days before the
1923 München Putsch, his own abrupt departure for
the decadent democracy, Hanfstaengl insisted that he
had never thought for a moment that the unremitting
virulent anti-Semitism of his friend and hero would
ever amount to anything serious (“some of my best
friends were…”), that his protégé would ever have
been “stupid enough to start a war.”

The real danger of a Hitler renascence, in the view
of Dr. Hugo Marx, a scholar who suffered under the
original, lies in the combination of a romantic nostal-
gia and the millennial German faith in authoritarian
rule as the solution to all problems. Weimar, after all,
failed primarily, as both William L. Shirer and Karl
Dietrich Bracher have shown, because no one, includ-
ing the Social Democrats who proclaimed it out of
desperation when they could find neither a Hohen-
zollern nor any other royalty to accept the throne,
wanted a republic. When the economic crash came
after 1929, the millennial search for the “strong man”
lost its last restraint.

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000

Intelligence Information Report
This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning
of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Sections 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any
manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

DIRECTORATE FOR
PLANS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

SECRET

COUNTRY West Germany

DOI March 1972

PAGE 1 OF 1 PAGES

REPORT NO. CS-311/01424-72

DATE DISTR. 14 March 1972

SUBJECT Intention of the Executive Committee of
the National Democratic Party to Urge
Non-participation of the Party in Baden-
Württemberg Election

ACQ Germany, Hamburg (10 March 1972) FIELD NO. EGG-1825

SOURCE An official West German security service at the Land level.
Analogous information from other West German services should
not be construed as confirmation. The sub-source is an NPD
official who had access to the information.

1. The executive committee of the West German National
Democratic Party (NPD) will meet on 18 March with officials
of the Baden-Württemberg NPD organization and attempt to
persuade the Land organization not to contest the 23 April
Land election. The executive committee will point out that
if the NPD does not run candidates in this election, the
chances for the Christian Democratic Union (CDU) to obtain a
majority in the Baden-Württemberg election will be enhanced.
This would enable the CDU to retain its Bundesrat majority
and improve the chances of defeating the Eastern treaties of
the Social Democratic Party/Free Democratic Party government.

2. The background of the executive committee's desire
to avoid contesting the Baden-Württemberg election is its
estimate that the NPD would capture only two per cent of the
vote this year compared with 9.4 per cent in the last
election, a result which the executive committee is most
anxious to avoid.

3. Field Dissem: Sent to Bonn and Berlin.

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM
(classification)

(dissem controls)

(For Field Distribution see final paragraph)

EGG-1825
Hamburg-21038
IN 557585

CAEROTIC/3
COORDINATING RELEASING
HM
JM

--- Page 8 ---

14-00000

TUCS INFORMATIC REPORT
OPG. LOIS BARNAAL/kmb
UNITE/G/R
DATE
CON
PAL 1 DECEMBER 1971
EUR 11
ULUNG1
#064
(When Filled in
ROUTING
3
FI 5, IN, CSDO, DO 4.
DATE DISTRIBUTED
1 DECEMBER 1971
DISSEMINATION
LER
12.
E/G/R/SP 2.4-1
E/G/R 2 /G/N 1
DE/G/R/BD-1- E/F/R_2]
E/G/R/JE-1
E/G/R/LB-L
EVALUATION
REQUESTED STATE
OF
ARMY
NO LIAISON
NAVY
AIR
TDCS-314/12543-71
ROUTINE
PRECEDENCE-
SASED ON (FED. APT. PROIJ
EGG-1781
HAMBURG 20722
IN 479259
CAERCTIC/3
LIAISON *
HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS (Place k in appropriate space. List electrical addresses.)
SEC
W
OTHER
C RECOMMEND EXO
A
8
BASIC DOCUMENT NOT
MADE AVAILABLE ‘DCI
E
RELAY CABLE ATTACHED
SHOW IW
DISSEM ELECTRICALLY
EXCLUSIVE FOR USIB
USIB PERSONAL ATIN
ZRWAHOO CABLE SENT
NOT FOR LIAISON
☐ ☐ ☐ ☐
000
WP 2.4
SE CRE T/NO FOREIGN DISSEM
171216 18%
-
•
CS INTERNAL USE ONLY
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
John R. Mapother
C/E/G/R
CLASSIFICATION
JOHN HAPOTHER
COORDINATING OFFICER(S)
RELEASING OFFICER
SECRET
C/E/R
HANS LOSES
(When Filled in)
COPY NO.
FORM TK-2 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS
5-69
(15-10-44-47)

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000
DIRECTORATE OF
PLANS.
This me prin!.
Intelligence Information Cable
ROUTINE
IN 479259
PAGE 1 OF 5
PAGES
XXXXXX
XXXNXWXX
STATE/INE DIA NMCC/MC (SECDEFICS ARMY NAVY AIR) CIA/NMCC NIC NSA SDO ONF CRS
TREAS
utira affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Sets. 773 and 714, the
or revelation of which in one to on norized person is prohibited by law.
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
SECRET
THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE
CITE TDCS-
-314/12543-71
DIST
1 DECEMBER 1971
COUNTRY
WEST GERMANY
DOI
NOVEMBER 1971
SUBJECT
SUMMARY OF ADOLF VON THADDEN'S
3 DECEMBER SPEECH TO THE NORTH-
WEST MINING ASSOCIATION
ACQ
SOURCE
GERMANY, HAMBURG (23 NOVEMBER 1971)
FIELD NO. EGG-1721
AN OFFICIAL WEST GERMAN SECURITY SERVICE AT THE LAND
LEVEL. ANALOGOUS INFORMATION FROM OTHER WEST GERMAN
SERVICES SHOULD NOT BE CONSTRUED AS CONFIRMATION. THE SUB-
SOURCE IS AN NPD OFFICIAL WHO HAD ACCESS TO A COPY OF THE
DRAFT SPEECH.
1. (FIELD COMMENT: ADOLF VON THADDEN, FORMER
NATIONAL CHAIRMAN OF THE WEST GERMAN NATIONAL DEMOCRATIC
PARTY (NPD), HAS BEEN INVITED TO SPEAK TO THE ANNUAL
GENERAL MEETING OF THE NORTHWEST MINING ASSOCIATION,
SPOKANE, WASHINGTON. ON 3 DECEMBER ON THE TOPIC: A
EUROPEAN'S VIEW OF THE AMERICAN CURRENCY PROBLEM.. SEE
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL HAMBURG TELEGRAM 767, 10
NOVEMBER 1971. DESPITE VON THADDEN'S RECENT RESIGNATION
FROM HIS NPD POST HE STILL PLANS TO ATTEND THE MEETING AND
. SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
telesuificationt
เm contrast
:

--- Page 10 ---

14-00000
TDCS-314/12513-71
PAGE 2 OF 5 PAGES
.
• SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM
(classification:
(dissem controls)
TO PRESENT THE SPEECH WHICH IS SUMMARIZED BELOW.)
•
2. VON THADDEN BEGINS BY TRACING THE HISTORY OF
THE UNITED STATES' RELATIONSHIP WITH GERMANY FROM WORLD
WAR I TO THE PRESENT, DEVOTING CONSIDERABLE ATTENTION TO
THE 1929 STOCK MARKÉT CRASH. HE GIVES CREDIT TO THE
UNITED STATES FOR HELPING EUROPE BACK ON ITS FEET AFTER
WORLD WAR II THROUGH THE MARSHALL PLAN. BUT POINTS OUT
THAT THE NATIONS WHICH WERE HELPED USED THE AID TO BUILD
AN EXPORT BASE WHICH NOW IS CONTRIBUTING TO AMERICA'S
FINANCIAL TROUBLES. HE SAYS THAT GERMANY AND OTHER ·
COUNTRIES BECAME INFECTED WITH AN "EXPORT HYSTERIA"
AFTER THE WAR WHICH HAD SHORT TERM BENEFITS FOR WORLD
TRADE, BUT WHICH IN THE LONG RUN DAMAGED THE DOMESTIC
ECONOMIES OF THE EXPORTING COUNTRIES.
3.
THE 15 AUGUST 1971 SPEECH BY PRESIDENT NIXON IS
COMPARED WITH THE 24 OCTOBER 1929 STOCK MARKET CRASH,
AND VON THADDEN SAYS THAT THE SPEECH WILL HAVE JUST AS
PROFOUND AN EFFECT ON THE WORLD'S FINANCIAL SYSTEM AS DID
THE CRASH. HE DEPICTS THE SPEECH AND THE RESULTING CONTROLS
AS SPELLING THE END OF THE ECONOMIC SYSTEM ESTABLISHED
3
AT BRETTON-WOODS.
2
1
SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM
(classification?
fdem control)
5
q
3

--- Page 11 ---

14-00000
IUCS
-314/12543-71
PAGE 3 OF 5 PAGES
SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM
(elastication)
(dissem contrati)
IN HIS ANALYSIS OF THE TYPE OF WORLD ECONOMIC
SYSTEM WHICH SHOULD FOLLOW THE CURRENT AMERICAN CONTROLS
AND FLOATING OF THE DOLLAR, VON THADDEN DRAWS HEAVILY FROM
THE 23 SEPTEMBER PRESS CONFERENCE OF FRENCH PRESIDENT POMPIDOU..
HE SAYS THAT THE DOLLAR CAN NO LONGER BE CONSIDERED THE
SINGLE WORLD CURRENCY. THE PRODUCTIVE CAPACITY OF EUROPE
MAKES IT NECESSARY THAT A EUROPEAN RESERVE CURRENCY BE
AVAILABLE AS A SECOND WORLD CURRENCY. THIS CANNOT BE
THE BRITISH POUND AS MANY PEOPLE AT ONE TIME WOULD HAVE
BELIEVED, BUT MUST BE A CURRENCY ACCEPTED BY BOTH FRANCE
AND GERMANY AND ADMINISTERED BY A COMMON GERMAN-FRENCH
BANK SUPPORTED BY GOLD. ALL EUROPEAN STATES WOULD USE
THIS BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL CURRENCY TRANSACTIONS.
⠀ VON THADDEN VIEWS POMPIDOU'S SPEECH AS A SIGNAL TO THE
UNITED STATES THAT THE FRENCH ARE NOT WILLING TO STAY
PERMANENTLY UNDER ECONOMIC PRESSURE FROM WASHINGTON, AND
AS PROVIDING AN OUTLINE OF THE TYPE OF ECONOMIC ORDER
EUROPE SHOULD HAVE IN THE FUTURE. HE CRITICIZES THE WEST
GERMAN GOVERNMENT FOR NOT TAKING A SIMILAR STAND, SAYING
THAT WHEN IT IS POSSIBLE FOR ONE STATE TO PUT ECONOMIC
PRESSURE ON OTHER STATES, THE SITUATION CAN LEAD TO
5
4
3
2
1
(classifration)
SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM
(dissam controls)
5
4
3
2
1

--- Page 12 ---

14-00000
