104-10167-10083

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

22 September 1959

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Conversations with REICHHARDT, 8, 9, 16, 17 September 1959

1. On 8 September Reichhardt phoned to report the following:

a. He took Marcos DIAZ Lans to the office of INS on Monday, 7 September to take care of his immigration status. (Comments: I was later called by Bill COTTER of the Alien Branch, concerning this. COTTER said that when they reported this to INS - that service said that LENS, the INS man in Miami has told them that DIAZ' hearing had already been held shortly after his arrival. COTTER implied that Bernie was not reporting accurately on the situation in Miami. I have not repeated this to Bernie, because Alien Branch seems to be in something of a tissy in regard to the new people in INS with whom they are dealing as a result of recent transfers of personnel.)

b. Bernie asked me to clarify what I wanted in the way of an affidavit of support for the wife of Marcos DIAZ. I dictated a simple statement and told Bernie to have it notarized and accompanied by a bank statement or similar document indicating WILLIAMS' ability to support this.

c. Bernie reported that Mrs. Catherine TAAFE, the international busybody claims that she is going to Cuba on our instigation. She is accompanied by her entire family. This information came from the Miami Chief of Detectives to the OO Representative.

d. Bernie asked how he could identify himself to the three evacuees in Miami we have instructed him to contact re going to the Dominican Republic on our behalf. I told him to use Dave Morales' name.

e. He asked me for information on our dispatch to Cura in connection with the PRCs for AMCOO and the gift. I told him I'd check and let him know. (Comments: The same day I saw a dispatch from Havana answering the questions, an info copy of which went to Bernie.)

2. I phoned Reichhardt on 9 September and we discussed the following matters:

a. I told him about the visit of Angel ROS. He said he had talked with [ ] on this matter and that [ ] reported that ROS came to Miami on 1 September and left on 3 September. [ ] thinks it is a secret police agent. Bernie is to see [ ] for details on this. (Comment: Reichhardt's report was received on 11 September.)

b. Reichhardt asked me to check on his money situation since no deposit has been made.

c. Reichhardt asked if I had seen copies of the news letter being distributed by Emilio Portuondo NUNEZ called Latin American Events. NUNEZ is listed as editor and publisher and the firm is Latin American Affairs Inc., 1028 Connecticut Avenue, Washington. The first issue was published on 7 August. The 17 August issue includes a list of Communists. (Comments: I am arranging for the CIA library to procure loan copies of the publication for me to review.)

d. NUNEZ was in Miami last week. ORTEGA did not see him, but according to ORTEGA's sources, NUNEZ strongly implied that he has succeeded in obtaining US support in the Departments of State and Defense including commitments for training sites in the United States. NUNEZ also said that he is in touch with Col. King. This was covered in UK-15.

3. On 15 September I talked with Reichhardt concerning the following:

a. Ricardo LORIE saw ROS. Bernie will see LORIE about this. Bernie will see FOX this week.

b. The addresses for the two evacuees who came by way of El Salvador are not correct. I told Bernie to try to find out where they are from the third, with whom he is in contact.

d. Bernie asks that his local travel order be renewed. (Comment: I checked this and the order has been renewed through 31 December 1959.)

4. On 16 September the following matters were discussed with Reichhardt:

a. JENIS: He called in the morning to ask for information on this man. According to Reichhardt, LORIE says that he was fired from the DIER for anti-Communist activities and was expected to arrive in Miami last night. LORIE is worried about him because of his previous post as No. 2 man in the DIER. The Cuban card confirms that he held the latter post.

b. LORIE says that he knows ROS well, and likes him. They met in Miami last week. ROS is in Miami again. ROS is principally interested in getting Reynaldo BLANCO out of Cuba. ROS says he was told the American Embassy can have no part of this but suggested he (ROS) ask LORIE to see his Miami contact about assistance. Bernie discouraged LORIE about helping BLANCO. Bernie feels it is strange that Station Havana would tell ROS about LORIE's Miami contact and that the former might have mis-represented what was said. (Comment: he cannot positively identify BLANCO - although such an individual was listed by LORIE and DIAZ Lanz as an Army officer. He may have been one of the 1957 regular Army plotters.).

c. LORIE also asked help in converting Pesos to dollars. Bernie did not give him an answer on this.

d. LORIE said he wants to establish contact with ROS. The plan we have so far only envisages communication from ROS in Havana to LORIE. While Bernie would prefer to handle the matter personally, I think I convinced him that this is unfeasible because of the danger of provocation. He therefore suggested having [Cheesman] brought into the picture, anonymously, as an individual who would get in touch with LORIE when there is something for him from ROS - and who will call LORIE periodically to find out if LORIE wants to transmit anything to ROS. This sounds OK to me. Bernie will see [Cheesman] within the next few days on this.

e. LORIE told Bernie that Cuban opposition views BONSAL's trip to the US as a victory for the opposition - but that if BONSAL returned to Cuba they will view the return as a triumph for CASTRO.

f. According to an OO source Mrs. Katherine TAAFE will be returning to the US from Cuba in a few days. She told at least one American in Cuba, Harry Rosenfeld, that she is working for CIA.

5. In connection with my earlier query re the report from Cuba that the Revolutionary Air Force is planning to remove a couple of planes from the US to Cuba without an export permit, Bernie got the following information:

[ ] A Cuban air force mission is in Miami concerning the aircraft. The Cubans are happy with the way [ ] has handled things for them even though they don't have the export license yet. [ ] has been asked to a party in Havana to be given by Juan Almeida in his honor. He may go on Friday. Do we have requirements for him?

6. On the morning of 17 August I phoned Bernie to tell him about the follow-up on the report concerning the planes (Haba 2653). He said Reynolds phoned him on the evening of 16 September about this. Bernie said he passed the information to Customs, who said that since the Cuban Air Force are the owners of the planes (they are AT 6's) there is little that can be done if they file flight plans for a local flight and then leave for Cuba. They asked Bernie for suggestions and he said he had none. [ ] reports that the Cubans asked him if he could find American pilots for the planes and he said he'd try, but actually has no intention of doing so. [ ] was impressed at the speed and accuracy of our information, but believes that the Cuban Government is being precipitate in expecting to get the planes out.

(T. J. Potes Day
WH/III/AD
7/BR
