12-00000
104-10422-10054
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
11/4
O'Reilly says getting pressure on him. Said whis half. I sand
would try to console.
Jean sand This was done. Callo
by get from Sue Wigzen. She did it.
Weisenberg request
requestors Hosenka will finish
How to know when
shared wi funt have Rocca's
Result
May is supposed to be thing

1411

--- Page 2 ---

13-00000
Points for Dan.
Kri
OT.
Batter how withing thei
off.
Eleanor
on
Wadio Sub Thur.
Third
wan
our review Gam
D.Day
Other office Prim Purpurating
They will bring old why.

--- Page 3 ---

13-00000
Dung Har
relar
11/1
for Rankin of 23 Mar. 64 in Vol 31
which refers to Gegency caffe
Mary (Out 74673).
to Honing

--- Page 4 ---

13-00000
Mr. Wall:
11/4
Mr. Works believes
that the drafts she can le
withheld for the FOIA requests.
Unless- Elez present a
significant Chang from
the final exply. Of
iner see a final caper!)
for
Shall I mark this att.
no release?
Also- what about other
drifts-shall we

--- Page 5 ---

13-00000
11/3
The remettle
exposed
Betsy's point
point for defections bring
by referring to the loction
the ribut agent who inter
i.e. New Haven

--- Page 6 ---

13-00000
10/31
Gene Wilson said he would
not provide
over the weekend
be hind
more
rep for
FOIA
he in
2000 requests &
to matter
isn't
going
He called in
my
quail & Ed Kalulski

--- Page 7 ---

13-00000
Want Dam in charge for 3 days
mixt work.
chedule
Wukund 10 people each day
48 values for Sumate
FOIA not writing
I would like
um kesilo

--- Page 8 ---

13-00000
G.K.:
Points for 1-st-win
20 lunkend Pears.
Sat-Sun-Mon.
Jony
Dan
ok with escape clauser.
7B1 State
3. Didars for Senate &
FOIA - One standard
4

--- Page 9 ---

13-00000
For final spil chuck. of
FOIA material.
14-1
X chuck all [Helsinkithaffee
x check all Dutch to Stags] info
Quilch teltags]ümfo
24
2/PV
