13-0000
RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
104-10326-10026

SECRET
MHENO: 97-8745117
SENSIND: RYBAT PAGE: 1
FRP: STAFF

ACTION: EUR/IBIL (714) INFO: CIC/CEG, CIC/CEGEUR, CIC/OG, CIC/PRC,
HUDORECORD, EUR/FRS, EUR/FRSF, EUR/IBII, LIMITED, MDSX, ODPD, ORMS/EUR,
RYBAT, FILE, CIC/EUR, DCEUR/CI (3/W)

97 8745117
ASR PAGE 001 IN 8745117
TOR: 070622Z AUG 97
ROME 31799

SECRET 070616Z AUG 97 STAFF
CITE ROME 31799

TO: DIRECTOR INFO PARIS.
FOR: LIMITED DISSEM EUR/IBIL INFO EUR/FRS, CIC/EUR

SLUGS: WNINTEL RYBAT VYSWORD TRACE
SUBJECT: VYSWORD REQUEST FOR DOCUMENTS ON JEAN RENE SOUTRE AKA MICHEL ROUX, OAS CAPTAIN
REF: NONE

TEXT:

1. ACTION REQUIRED: CONFIRM DECLASSIFICATION AND AVAILABILITY OF DOCUMENTS

2. PER MEMO (NR 04/16) FROM THE VYSWORD_FIRST DIVISION
((COUNTERINTELLIGENCE / COUNTERTERRORISM) VYSWORDS HAVE REQUESTED
ASSISTANCE IN OBTAINING/CONFIRMING AVAILABILITY OF SEVERAL DOCUMENTS
RELATING TO ORGANIZATION SECRET ARMIE (SAO) CAPTAIN JEAN MARIE
((SOUTRE)) (ALSO SPELLED ((SOUETRE)). THE VYSWORDS NOTE THAT PER
THE "INTERNET" THESE HAVE RECENTLY BEEN DECLASSIFIED AND ARE
AVAILABLE IN THE NATIONAL ARCHIVES IN COLLEGE PARK, MARYLAND. THIS
INFORMATION IS BEING REQUESTED ON BEHALF OF CERTAIN (UNNAMED)
MAGISTRATES IN MILAN. VYSWORDS SPECIFICALLY ASK FOR AVAILABILITY OF
THE FOLLOWING:

A. FBI 46 PAGE REPORT ON JEAN SOUETRE AKA MICHEL ((ROUX))
DATED 22 NOV 63, RECORD NR. 180-10110-10054, AGENCY FILE NUMBER
*<025-JFK.>

B. CIA ONE PAGE DOCUMENT MENTIONING JEAN RENE SOUETRE (NO
DATE), RECORD NR. 180-10142-10273, CIA FILE NR 023-025-024.

C. CIA 3 PAGE DOCUMENT DATED 1 APR 64 RE "FORTH WORTH,
TEXAS," "MICHEL ROUX," "DALLAS, TEXAS," AND "MICHEL
MERTZ/EXTRADITION," RECORD NR 104-10002-10042, CIA FILE NR.
201-0289248.

D. CIA ONE PAGE DOCUMENT DATED 1 APR 64 RE JEAN SOUETRE,
RECORD NR. 180-10001-10374, CIA FILE NR. 000111 (SIC).

3. WE ARE NOT KEEN TO GET INTO CHASING SUCH DOCUMENTS DOWN FOR VYSWORD.
WE INTEND TO RESPOND THAT VYSWORD SHOULD WRITE DIRECTLY TO
THE NATIONAL ARCHIVES TO OBTAIN THEM. HOWEVER, WE WOULD LIKE
CONFIRMATION THAT THESE DOCUMENTS HAVE INDEED BEEN DECLASSIFIED AND ARE
AVAILABLE AT NATIONAL ARCHIVES, AND THAT INFORMATION TO THIS EFFECT
HAS BEEN POSTED ON THE INTERNET. (FROM THE LOOKS AND DATES OF THE
*DOCUMENTS, THEY MAY BE RELATED TO THE <JFK ASSASSINATION>
INVESTIGATION). THANKS.

FILE: 043-002-012/03. CL BY: 0541440. CL REASON: (B)
DECL ON: X5. DRV LIA 1-8/2.

END OF MESSAGE
SECRET
SECRET
