14-00000
104-10183-10346
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CHECK CLASSIFICATION ON TOP AND BOTTOM
UNCLASSIFIED
CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

TO: | INITIALS | DATE
Jack F. | 3/23/65
FROM: NAME, ADDRESS, AND PHONE NO.
DATE: 2-61

FORM NO. 237 Use previous editions

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Training
ATTENTION: Chief, Covert Training/US/TR/OD
SUBJECT: Covert Training for member of CWOOD organization
REFERENCE: Proposed Training Curriculum for Trainees From CC/US/TR

1. It is requested that covert training be given to the CWOOD trainees listed below for the period of 8 March - 30 April 1965. This will be the second group of CWOOD trainees under this program which was initiated by the Venezuelan Desk of Branch Three of WH Division through Mr. Rawleigh Taylor, Chief, Covert Training, in September 1964. The first group has been given an 8 week covert course ending on 26 February 1965. The trainees will be in Washington under the national cover of "participating in military training courses" or possibly a "purchasing mission" to their Government. As such, they will not be formal liaison visitors and will not be expected to enter Headquarters buildings, except for one day training in the R & S Building, or to meet Agency officials.

2. Project CWOOD is a Caracas Station liaison activity which has as its objectives, the establishment of a liaison relationship with the Venezuelan Armed Forces Intelligence Service, (SIFA) to permit CIA to improve the efficiency and capabilities of SIFA and provide CIA access to its intelligence take, and to eventually recruit a member of SIFA. Jacob B. HURSCHWOOD, a Staff Agent under non-official cover in Caracas, is providing advice and guidance to SIFA and is obtaining intelligence information in return. It is believed that covert training can help improve the efficiency and internal security of SIFA which will enable this organization to more effectively combat the extremist guerrilla and terrorist activity fomented by the Communist Party of Venezuela with aid and encouragement from Cuba. Venezuela is getting maximum attention from Castro in his effort to bring about communist take-over in Latin America. Besides the inherent value of the training itself, the creation of the training will help HURSCHWOOD improve his daily operational association with SIFA and enhance his opportunity of making a successful recruitment in the future. Orientation in Counter Insurgency is also being included to give officials a greater awareness of the problem and thus to lay the ground work for future work in this field.

3. The responsible desk operations officer for this course will be Mr. William E. Cavan, who will be known to the trainees as "Bill Cabal", the same identity he used with the first group. An Agency serviced telephone number, 638-3120 has been arranged and will be given to the trainees as a number where "Bill Cabal" can be reached in an emergency. This number is serviced 24 hours a day and Mr. Cavan is to be immediately notified to call the persons who asked for him at that number. Mr. Cavan is located in room 3826 of Headquarters Building, extension 4521.

The following is pertinent biographic data on the trainees:

a. Lt. Colonel Mario FAVAIO Lobato
DOB: La Guaira, Venezuela, 25 September 1923
Marital Status: Married 2 April 1949. Has three small children.
Formal Education: High School, Caracas (dates unknown). A graduate of the Venezuelan Military Academy in 1950. Attended the Infantry School at Fort Benning, Georgia, in 1956 and studied English at American University. In 1961 he attended the Argentine Army School of War for approximately 12 months.
Language Ability: Spanish and some English. (English listed as "fair")
Present Status: Chief of Administration
Area knowledge: Has visited the USA and Argentina
Previous Intelligence Training: None indicated, but has probably had some intelligence training either in the Venezuelan Army or the Argentine course.
Other: HURSCHWOOD considers FAVAIO as a potential recruit on return to Venezuela and suggests he be given special attention.

b. Major Luis Alfonso OCHOA
DOB: 9 September 1928, Las Dantas, State of Bolivar, Venezuela.
Marital Status: Married 1962, has 5 small children
Formal Education: High School, 1946-1950. Entered the Venezuelan military service in 1948 and has taken intermediate and advanced courses in the Venezuelan Infantry School. He has commanded rifle platoons and infantry companies and has been an instructor in the Infantry School of the Venezuelan Army.
Language Ability: Only native Spanish
Present Status: Official; exact title not indicated.
Previous Intelligence Training: Not indicated

c. Lt. Colonel Raul JIMENEZ Gainza
DOB: 16 December 1932, San Felipe, State of Yaracuy, Venezuela
Martial Status: Married - wife is Matilde Abreu de Jimenez
Formal Education: Not listed, but probably a graduate of the Venezuelan Military Academy.
Language Ability: Not indicated.
Present Status: Deputy Director of SIFA
Previous Intelligence Training: Not indicated
Area knowledge: Not indicated.
Other: Jimenez has recently been named Deputy Director of SIFA and should be given deference as the leader of the group.

d. Lt. Colonel Solis Antonio MARTINEZ
DOB: 3 August 1926, San Luis, State of Falcon, Venezuela
Martial Status: Married, three children
Formal Education: High School, 1940-1944; Venezuela Military Academy 1944-1947 (graduate). Also completed specialized courses in Infantry Tactics and Tank Warfare as well as the course of study given by the Superior War College of the Venezuelan Ministry of War. He has served in a variety of capacities within the Venezuelan Army since 1947 commanding everything from platoons through battalions as well as instructor of artillery. He has seen action against the guerrillas in the State of Falcon. He served in Colombia, dates unknown, as a member of the Venezuelan mission to "Operation America".
Language Ability: Native Spanish, reads but does not speak or write English. His competence in understanding English is given as "fair".
Area knowledge: Subject's only travel outside of Venezuela was to Colombia
Previous Intelligence Training: None indicated but probably has had some intelligence training during his military career.
Other: He is Chief of Investigation of the SIFA and will probably return to this position. It is possible that he is aware of Station's police liaison with Venezuelan political police (DIGEPOL), without knowing the details of the relationship.

5. POA's for training have been granted for Favio and Martinez and are pending for Ochoa and Jimenez. It is assured that the trainees are aware of the Agency affiliation of HURSCHWOOD and that the training will be conducted by CIA. The Director of SIFA is aware of HURSCHWOOD's CIA association and was also received by the DCI on 21 July 1964 during a visit to the U.S.

6. Training Requirements: The training should be held in a safehouse, conducted in Spanish and on a full time basis. The suggested dates are from 8 March through 30 April 1965, which have been approved by Chief, Covert Training, OS/TR. The trainees will use national military training cover during the training period, and it is not anticipated they will enter Headquarters building. They will be taken into the R & S Building for a one-day indoctrination in Seals and Flaps and Audio Surveillance. Requests for this entrance will be covered in a separate paragraph. A one-day orientation course in Counter Insurgency is also discussed in a subsequent paragraph as well as an extensive two-week course in Flaps and Seals for Major Ochoa at a TSD Safe House.

7. Requirements for OTR/OS/Covert Training: Caracas Station has submitted the following recommendations as areas which should be covered in the training of these officers: OTR/OS/Covert Training may modify and/or adapt the list as necessary.

a. The Organization of Clandestine Activities
b. Security
c. Observation and Description (Chasing)
d. Surveillance
e. Agent Acquisition
1. Spotting
2. Assessment
3. Recruitment
4. Training
5. Management
6. Termination
f. Clandestine Communications
g. Counter Intelligence
h. Interrogation
i. Reporting
j. Intelligence Research and Analysis

8. It is requested that Ground Branch of SOD make the services of Colonel Valeriano available for a one-day orientation in the latest techniques used in the field of counterinsurgency. The trainees are well aware of the general problems and history of fighting guerrillas and are actively engaged in operations at the present. It is suggested that the instructions stress use of intelligence in combatting guerrilla groups and means of procuring it to include the creation of intelligence nets among peasants in the afflicted areas. It is also believed that any current information on modifications in the tactics of Mao Tse-tung would also be of value as would be examples of the use of psychological warfare programs against the guerrillas and the intellectual leaders of the communist party, considered as the moving force behind the guerrilla movement in Venezuela. It is proposed that Cavan who would use the alias of "Bill Cabal" take the trainees to the office of Valeriano and that Valeriano be introduced as a consultant of CIA who is very knowledgeable of counterinsurgency problems. Valeriano as a member of the International Police Services Academy, has talked to other Latin American officials on this problem as part of his overt duties. It is believed his talks will make SIFA more aware of the threats of insurgency movements and also lay the ground work for possible future association with SIFA or the Venezuelan Government in the counterinsurgency field.

Through Mr. Ellis, Chief of the Ground Branch of SOD, and Mr. Wall, of the same branch, one-half day orientation course was given to the first trainees who suggested that a full day would be sufficient due to the level of the above trainees and the experience they have in this field.

9. Arrangements have been made with Mr. Luria and Mr. Fritz Hekel of TSD/Training to provide Major Luis Alfonso Ochoa with a Flaps and Seals course for the period of 19-30 April at a TSD Safe House. It is believed the Flaps and Seals course will benefit CIA because it will offer HURSCHWOOD the opportunity to maintain closer contact with Ochoa who will be responsible for this type activity in SIFA. SIFA proposes to make a concerted effort in the letter intercept field to keep better informed of the extreme leftist efforts to overthrow the Venezuelan government, and it is felt that HURSCHWOOD can keep abreast of the operation. Because of SIFA's responsibilities it is believed that the more efficient effort that SIFA can give in this field will result to the benefit of CIA. Major Ochoa would take the first six weeks of the covert training course then devote the last two weeks to the flaps and seals course.

10. It is also requested that TSD/Training provide a one-day course in Audio Surveillance and Flaps and Seals for the other three trainees at the R & S Building. This should be a very general briefing with the least possible emphasis on complicated, expensive equipment that might be later requested by the trainees. It is believed this general introduction will give the SIFA trainees some idea as to approaches and problems involved in these fields as well as the pitfalls that should be avoided. This one-day course was given to the first three trainees who appeared impressed with the concepts exposed to them. This subject has also been discussed with Mr. Luria and a firm date has been selected for the training. The OTI Instructor will accompany the trainees and act as translator.

It is requested that CI/OPS obtain permission for the visitors to enter the R & S building for this training which is scheduled for the 19th of April.

DESMOND FITZGERALD
Chief
Western Hemisphere Division

Concurrences:
DC/CI
for Training and Qualification Review
WH/3/Y/WECavan (24 Feb. 65)

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee
1 - DD/TRO
1 - CI/Staff
1 - FI/OPS
2 - TSD/TRNG
3 - SOD/Ground
1 - C/WH/M
1 - C/CI/LANG
1 - WH/3/OPS
