14-00000

104-105 16-10348

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

INEL TYPIC
TEC
CEC 21
2.63
SUPDATA OLUKOR
FRENCH
CUBA, CUBAN MERCHANTS AND SUGAR EXPERT
REPORT CLASS SECRET NO FOREIGN
SSEN-8135 SUBJECT EFFORT
JADEC 63.
OF CUBAN GOVERNMENT TO INITIATE COMMERCIAL BARTER WITH
EUROPEAN CONTRIES DOI DEC 63 PADA MEXICO MEXICO CITY 20
AP 3 SOURCE WESTERN EUROPEAN BUSINESSMAN WHO TRAVELS FREQUENTLY
TO CUBA WHERE HIS COMPANY MAINTAINS COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
DE THE ATTAINA
ACI
TOC3
EDENCE
ROUTINE
FRICCITY
DATE

14-00000
FORM INFORMATION REPORT

SECRET
SOURCE
TRANS EVALU.
CAL C
THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT HAS RENEWED NEGOTIATIONS FOR THE
PAYMENT OF DEBTS RESULTING FROM EXPROPRIATIONS MADE FROM CERTAIN
WESTERN EUROPEAN BUSINESS INTERESTS. THE CUBAN MINISTRY OF FOREIGN
TRADES IS TRYING TO INTEREST WEST GERMANY, ITALY AND FRANCE
COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES SO THAT A FAVORABLE ATMOSPHERE WILL PREVAIL
AT THE TIME OF THE COMPLETION OF THE SUGAR CROP HARVEST, IN MARCH
1964, WHEN THE CONSIDITY IS NORMALLY MARKETED. NEGOTIATIONS FOR
REPARATIONS ARE TAKING FORM IN CUBAN OFFERS TO SELL TOBACCO AT
DISCOUNT PRICES.

2. IN ORDER OF PRIORITY THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT IS TRYING TO OBTAIN
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
149316
15/1711 GGG 623
33
TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT

14-00000
SECRET
FERTILIZER, TRANSPORT
EXCHANGE FOR SUGAR
EXPECTS A SUGAR
WORLD PRICE OF 8 CENT PER
AND CHEMICAL PRO
BARTER DEAL THE CUBAN
WHICH, IF SOLD AT THE AVERAGE
CUT 3 MILLION DOLLAR (US) IN CREDITS.

3. FIELD COMMENT.
THAT EXAMINATION OF THE
CONSTATISCH OF THE BEST, CUBA HAS HAD IN YEARS.

4. FIELD DISSEM STATE CON CINCO.
SECRET
