```markdown
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

14-00000
104-10221-10022

SECRET

F12-79-00
Chief, Personnel Security Division,
Director, Domestic Contact Service
(Chief, Services Division)
16 March 1971

MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL, III
A-127900
Revocation of DOD Security
Clearance/Recent Contact

1. The information reported in the enclosed self-explanatory memorandum, regarding Subject's self-initiated contact with our Miami Field Office, may be of interest.

2. The Office of the General Counsel and Division have been apprised of Subject's recent activities.

3. Any questions pertaining to this memorandum should be directed to Mrs. Virginia Thorne, Ext. 2733.

WILLIAM J. VALOHAN

Enclosure: As stated above
Thorne:gry

---

14-00000

SECRET

Director, Domestic Contact Service
ATTN: John McConnell
John Greany (OCC)
Chief Miami Field Office
V. Thorne
MIM-056-71
10 March 1971

SUBJECT: Mitchell Livingston Werbell, III

1. On 9 Mar 71 we received a long distance call, presumably from Powder Springs, Georgia, from subject, who is an old and unsavory contact of this office dating from 1959. Werbell has been involved in a variety of scrapes, the latest of which concerned an abortive invasion of Haiti which John Creany was very much concerned about a year or so ago.

2. Werbell stated that the Department of Defense had just revoked his security clearance on grounds of Werbell's "frivolous behavior" in the Haitian caper. Werbell stated that he intended to "fight it to the Supreme Court", as he had always kept us and other elements of the US Government informed concerning developments in the Haitian matter.

3. Werbell asked if there was anything that we could do for him in the way of interceding for him with the DOD, and we informed him bluntly and in no uncertain terms that he was strictly on his own, and we could do nothing for him. He then asked if it would be worthwhile to subpoena Bart Gonzales. We informed him that it was up to his attorney to make such recommendations.

4. Werbell seemed to get the message, and then offered to keep us advised regarding an alleged forthcoming attempt on Haiti which is being sponsored by Rolando Masferrer, even though Masferrer is currently incarcerated in a federal prison. We told Werbell that if he wished to pass any information along we would accept it but under no circumstances should he attempt to elicit any information on our behalf. He agreed that he would operate on this basis and said he might be in touch with us again.

5. In view of Werbell's record we felt that this latest contact should be a matter of record and that OCC should be informed of developments.

JUSTIN F. GLEICHAUF

---

14-00000

SECRET
F12-79-00
Chief, Security Division,
Director Domestic Contact Service
(Chief, Services Division)
Mitchell L. Werbell, III
#27686
1969

SUBJECT: Local OSI Inquiry to DCS Miami Office for Information Concerning

REFERENCE: MIM-084-69

1. The enclosed copy of memorandum from our Miami Office, regarding the OSI representative's inquiry for information concerning Subject is forwarded for your records and possible future reference.

2. Any questions pertaining to this matter should be directed to Mrs. Virginia Thorne, Ext. 2733.

WILLIAM R. KOTH
Personnel Security Division

Enclosure: As stated above.
Thorne: gr97

---

14-00000

THE NO.
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

SECRET

TO: Director, Domestic Contact Service
DATE: 15 May 1969
FROM: Chief, Miami Field Office
SUBJECT: Local OSI Inquiry Regarding Information on Mitchell L. Werbell
REFERENCE: MIM-084-69

1. On 15 May 1969, Special Agent Dave Ploumen, local OSI representative, USAF, visited the Miami Field office to solicit any information we might have regarding Mitchell L. Werbell who apparently is undergoing a security clearance check as the result of presently being employed by a company with a government contract.

2. Werbell was an unsolicited contact of this office, beginning in 1959 and he reached peak notoriety in November 1967 as a result of his involvement in the Rolando Masferrer trial in connection with the abortive Haitian Invasion. John Greaney, OGC was in Miami at the time to oversee Agency interests.

3. Ploumen in contacting other US Government agencies locally including the US Attorney's Office somehow received an indication that CIA had information on Werbell; thus Ploumen's visit to the Miami Field Office.

4. It was indicated to Ploumen, who is known personally by several members of this staff, that we knew of Werbell and that on occasion he had reported unsolicited information. It was suggested, however, that Ploumen direct his request officially through channels via OSI's agency liaison officer in Washington.

5. This is for background and is being forwarded at the suggestion of local CIA Security.

JUSTIN F. GLEICHAUF

---

14-00000

SECRET

Chief, Miami Field Office
Mr. B. Hogan
Director, Domestic Contact Service (Services Division)

SUBJECT: Mitchell L. Werbell, III
REFERENCE: 69-490-ND

DATE: May 1969

1. Thank you for the information reported in the referent. The suggestion made by your office that OSI direct its request through official security channels is entirely correct.

2. In the future, however, it will be helpful and appreciated if you will forward correspondence pertaining to security matters directly to the Security Liaison Officer, rather than to Support Staff. This serves time in getting the information to the appropriate channel for any action that may be indicated.

JAMES R. MAMPAY

---

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

DATE: 5 July 1967
TO: Director, Domestic Contact Service
SUBJECT: WERBELL, Mitchell Livingston III
FILE NO: #27686
A707900
F-12-79-00

1. Reference is made to your request for security checks on the subject person as a source of intelligence Information.

2. This is to inform you that the necessary checks have been completed with the following results:
    * [ ] No additional information has been obtained, except for such biographic information as indicated below in the attachment.
    * [ ] Information has been received that Subject was investigated with favorable results in the attachment.
    * [X] Certain information has been received and appears in the attachment which your Division will wish to consider in determining the extent and level of your use of Subject.

3. It is to be noted that our checks were made on the basis of the identifying Information you furnished or in an attachment to this memorandum. Should it be disclosed that this information is erroneous or that Subject is known by a different name, this Division should be notified immediately.

Attachment:
State Passport Report
Summary

WILLIAM R. KOTH
Chief
Personnel Security Division

---

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL
WERBELL, Mitchell L.
#27686
26 April 1967

SUBJECT: State Passport Report

On 19 April 1967, the current passport file of Mitchell L. WERBELL was reviewed at the Passport Office, Department of State. The following is a summary of the information contained therein:

*   Birth: 8 March 1918 at Philadelphia, Pennsylvania (Verified by birth certificate)
*   PASSPORT ISSUED: At Miami, Florida, on 29 May 1962, Passport Number C-3033, for a two week trip to England and Germany for the purpose of business.
*   Residence: RD #1, Powder Springs, Georgia
*   Occupation: Public Relations and Advertising Executive.

SUBJECT's file also reveals that the Federal Bureau of Investigation has information pertaining to SUBJECT concerning his involvement in Haitian Revolutionary activities.

MG/me

---

14-00000

MEMORANDUM TO: Chief, MIAMI FIELD OFFICE
FROM: Director, Domestic Contact Service (Services Division)
SUBJECT: Security Check Completion

DATE: 31 July 1967

1. Attached is a notice of security check completion on the individual indicated below. The approved Subject's exploitation as a source of intelligence information, and the level of classified information which may be disclosed to him, is left to your discretion.

2. The OS provided a Summary of derogatory information for you to consider. This information will be forwarded by this Division by an "Eyes Only" memorandum which will carry the same number as the one noted on the lower left corner of the attached notice of security check completion. Please use this number to identify a Summary with an individual.

3. The memorandum directs that the field chief, after reading the information, is to establish the level of classified disclosure, if any; and to provide guidance to the Contact Specialist in his relations with the Subject. It does not authorize the Contact Specialist to disclose the nature of the derogatory information to the Subject. The field chief, after making an appropriate notation in the files of the office with respect to the security status of the individual, will then either destroy the information or place it in a sealed envelope which will carry the legend: "To be read only by the Chief, Field Office."

WERBELL, MITCHELL L.
Only #1227

JAMES R. MAMPAY

CLASSIFICATION: "Restricted" - No Classified Info to be revealed. Check with Mr. Gleichauf before contacting.

Justin F. Gleichauf

GROUP 1. Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

---

14-00000

SECRET
F12-79-00
Chief, Personnel Security Division,
Mr. Leland Bunn
Director, Domestic Contact Service
(Chief, Services Division)
21 February 1967

SUBJECT: Recent Telephone Call from Chet Gray of Los Angeles re Possible Assassination in US of Close Relative of Middle East Ruler
WERBELL, Mitchell L.
A-127900

1. The enclosed copy of teletype from our Miami Field Office is forwarded for your information and immediate transmittal to the FBI.

2. Mr. John McConnell, of this office, has discussed this matter with Mr. Sam Papich, FBI, who said the FBI will contact Subject and Gray, and will subsequently advise us of any action they might want us to take.

3. Any questions pertaining to this memorandum should be directed to Mrs. Virginia Thorne, Ext. 2733.

D. FRANK YOUNG

Enclosure: Teletype Contacts/Miami-1710 dated 20 February 1967

Thorne: pat

---

14-00000

SECRET

SECRET 201530Z CITE CONTACTS/MIAMI 1710
CONTACTS/WASHINGTON
ATTN: MCCONNELL

FROM: GLEICHAUF

PHONE:

WE HAVE RECEIVED A MOST UNUSUAL PHONE CALL FROM MITCHELL WERBELL, POWDER SPRINGS, GEORGIA, DETAILS OF WHICH FOLLOWS.

WERBELL IS A SOLDIER OF FORTUNE TYPE WHO HAS BEEN IN OCCASIONAL CONTACT WITH THIS OFFICE, OF HIS OWN VOLITION, SINCE 1959. WHILE AN UNSAVORY CHARACTER, MUCH OF THE INFORMATION HE HAS FURNISHED HAS PROVED TRUE. HE FURNISHED COMPLETE DETAILS ON THE RECENT HAITIAN INVASION PLAN. THE PHONE CALL WAS RECEIVED BY BART GONZALES FROM HIM AT 1120 HOURS ON 18 FEBRUARY. HE STATED THAT HE HAD JUST HAD A TELEPHONE CALL FROM CHET GRAY OF LOS ANGELES, NO ADDRESS (PHONE 274-4922).

GRAY STATED THAT HE HAD BEEN APPROACHED REGARDING THE POSSIBLE ASSASSINATION IN THE U.S. OF A CLOSE RELATIVE, POSSIBLY A BROTHER OR SON, OF A MIDDLE-EAST RULER, WITHIN THE NEXT 10 DAYS. HE DID NOT FURNISH THE NAME OF THE ALLEGED VICTIM, NOR BY WHOM HE WAS APPROACHED. GRAY TOLD WERBELL THAT HE DID NOT WANT TO GET INVOLVED IN AN INCIDENT THAT MIGHT CAUSE INTERNATIONAL

---

14-00000

SECRET
PAGE 2 CONTACTS/MIAMI 1710 SECRET

REPERCUSSIONS AND ASKED WERBELL FOR ADVICE. WERBELL ADVISED GRAY TO INFORM THE FBI IN LOS ANGELES, BUT GRAY WAS RELUCTANT TO DO SO. WERBELL THEN ASKED GRAY IF HE WOULD BE WILLING TO TALK WITH A MEMBER OF CIA AND GRAY AGREED. WERBELL TOLD GRAY THAT IF A REPRESENTATIVE OF CIA CONTACTED HIM, WERBELL'S NAME WOULD BE USED AS ENTREE.

THE ABOVE SOUNDS LIKE SOMETHING OUT OF THE "ARABIAN NIGHTS," BUT I DID MEET A CHET GRAY FROM LOS ANGELES AT A LOCAL CONTACT'S HOUSE IN 1962, SOME DETAILS OF WHICH ARE CONTAINED IN COA(S)5601-62 AND 00A(S) 5598 DATED 18 DEC 62. GRAY IS A NOTORIOUS HOODLUM AND MIGHT EASILY HAVE BEEN APPROACHED FOR SUCH PURPOSE.

PLEASE HANDLE THE ABOVE AS YOU SEE FIT.

Sam Papich says FBI will contact Gray and will advise Miami of action they want us to take.

---

14-00000

F12-79-00
MEMORANDUM FOR: Maurice A. EIKS-0422/79
ATTENTION: Chief, PPL Group
FROM: Lee Carle
George L. Morling
SUBJECT: Request for Records Search
REFERENCE: Robert John Van Morgan, et al. (U)
OGC 79-02604 dated 20 September 1979

1. An intensive search of the files and Indices of the Directorate of Operations has revealed no information concerning Robert John MORGAN, John Duncan LIBOLT, Hubert Stewart COTTON, John Sylvester CARPENTER, Wayne Ernest DANIEL, or Guy Perilson OWN. (U)

2. However, this search has revealed the following information concerning Wiley Gilmore SIMS (AKA: William Gilmore Sims) and Mitchell Livingston WERBELL III (AKA: Mitch THIRD).

    A. William Gilmore SIMS
        1. In December 1966 SIMS contacted the United States Embassy in Port of Spain, Trinidad, and talked to a representative of this Directorate. He requested assistance in retrieving an airplane impounded by authorities in Venezuela which they suspected was used in smuggling operations. SIMS also stated that he had been in Guatemala looking for air freight business. The files of this Directorate contain no indication that any action was taken regarding this matter. (U)
        2. SIMMS was never employed by this Directorate nor has this Directorate ever had any operational interest in him. (U)

    B. Mitchell Livingston WERBELL III
        1. WERBELL has never been employed by this Agency or does this Agency have any operational interest in him. WERBELL was a commissioned officer with the OSS during World War II and served in the China-Burma-India theater. In August of 1959, this Agency considered using WERBELL as a source of information on revolutionary activities in the Caribbean area, particularly Cuba, but terminated its consideration of his possible use in October 1959 when it was determined that his information was of little value and it was suspected that he would use the proposed connection with this Agency to promote his personal interests. (S)
        2. In 1973 WERBELL was under investigation by the United States Treasury Department Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and firearms and by the United States Customs Service for activities relating to possible mercenary activities on Abaco Island in the Bahamas. In this connection, WERBELL contacted three retired CIA employees during 1974 in an attempt to involve them in a scheme concerning the activities of an organization called the Friends of Abaco (FOA) which advocated the secession of the island from the Commonwealth of the Bahamas. All three individuals reported their contact with WERBELL, and sought guidance from this Agency. In May and June of 1974 they were advised to break all ties with WERBELL. On 27 June 1974 the Federal Bureau of Investigation was formally apprised of WERBELL'S overtures to the three retired CIA employees. (S)

3. It has been determined that Mitchell Livingston WERBELL III is the subject of PA request number P76-0028. There is no indication that Mitchell Livingston WERBELL III has ever been the subject of an FOIA request or that the remaining individuals listed in reference have ever been the subject of an FOIA or PA request. (U)

George L. Morling
Marking

Distribution:
Orig Addressee w/ref.
OG/RTR w/ref.
OG/EIR Chrono

---

14-00000

OGC 79-08601
20 September 1979

MEMORANDUM FOR: Associate Deputy Director for Administration
Chief, Security Analysis Group, OS
FROM: Associate Deputy Director for Science & Technology
Associate Deputy Director for Operations
THRU: ISA/DIP/IP/FIS
C/Reference Branch/ISS/IPG
SUBJECT: Request for Records Search. Robert John Morgan, et al.

1. The Department of Justice is currently engaged in an investigation with state and federal law enforcement agencies concerning importation and distribution of marijuana and cocaine. Attached is a copy of the Department's letter to me requesting verification by CIA of any employment or other involvement with certain of the subjects of this investigation.

2. In order to respond to the Department's request, it would be appreciated if your offices could determine if there are any records on the subjects listed in the attached letter from the Justice Department.

John K. Greaney
General Counsel

Attachment

---

14-00000

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
UNITED STATES
WASHINGTON, D.C.

September 17, 1979

Mr. John K. Greaney
Associate General Counsel
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D.C. 20505

Dear Mr. Greaney:

It was a pleasure to meet with you and Clyde Carter last Monday.

As I explained to you at that time, we are engaged in an investigation with state and federal law enforcement agencies concerning importation and distribution of marijuana and cocaine. During the course of this investigation, allegations (unfounded, I am sure) have been made that certain of the subjects of this investigation are employees of the Central Intelligence Agency.

I believe it is necessary to resolve as much in advance of an indictment any problems which may arise should any of the subjects of the investigation be involved with the Central Intelligence Agency.

The following individuals are among the subjects of this investigation:

*   Robert John Morgan - DOB: 3/6/36
*   John Duncan Libolt - DOB: 1/25/24
*   Hubert Stewart Cotton - DOB: 11/19/23
*   John Sylvester Carpenter - DOB: 1/27/35
*   Wiley Gilmore Sims - DOB: 11/5/18
*   Mitchell Livingston Werbell - DOB: 3/8/18
*   Wayne Ernest Daniel - DOB: 2/13/44
*   Guy Eurilton - DOB: 11/1/15

William L. McCulley
Special Attorney
US. Dept. of Justice

cc: Robert L. Keuche
Deputy Asst. Attorney General
Criminal Division
Gerard T. McGuire
Deputy Chief
Organized Crime & Racketeering Section
Criminal Division

---

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

FBI reports extracted from Werbell file (DCD)

1.  FBI report dated 6 August 1974 from Washington, FBI file (CI-3) 62-108665, SUBJECT: MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL, III INTERNAL SECRUITY ABACO, NEUTRALITY MATTERS ABACO.
2.  FBI report dated 22 July 1974 from Atlanta, Georgia, no Bureau file, Subject: MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL, III.

---

14-00000

DCD-11-2/78
31 January 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR: DDO/ISS/IP/EIS
FROM: Ruth Elliff
DCD/FIO/PAO

SUBJECT: House Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA) Request (OLC 77-5635/4)
REFERENCE: Your Memorandum, Same Subject, 28 December 1977

1. In response to referenced request, I am forwarding the following material from DCD files:

    a. Dan Carswell - one memorandum which may relate to the individual you requested.
    b. Louis Posada - negative.
    c. Cesario Diosada - copies of all material in DCD files.
    d. Mitchell Livingston Werbell, III - file A-12-79-00, containing all DCD material. This file is on loan and should be returned to DCD as soon as possible. PLEASE HAND CARRY.
    e. David Atlee Phillips - negative.
    f. Lucien Conein - one document. (This document was also furnished in response to Conein's request [P 77-0805] under the Privacy Act.)
    g. William Stuckey - negative.
    h. Ed Butter - copies of all material in DCD files.

---

14-00000

DCD-112/78
31 January 1978

SUBJECT: House Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA) Request (OLC 77-5635/4)

1. Priscilla Johnson McMillan - DCD response to her request (P 70-18011) under the Privacy Act. Full text and sanitized copies of all this material should be furnished. Also attached are four information reports which were not furnished in response to the PA request.
2. Richard Snyder - one memorandum which may relate to the individual in whom you are interested.
3. Alexis Davison - negative.

I have made no attempt to sanitize this material. I understand that HSCA staff members who will be examining these documents are fully cleared, and will not be allowed to remove any of this material from our headquarters, make any copies of this material, or make any notes therefrom that would reveal any material that is properly classified and deals with intelligence sources and methods. All of the attached material is for your retention except file A-12-79-00.

Please direct further inquiries about this matter to the undersigned on extension 3767.

Ruth Elliff

Attachments a/s

Distribution:
Orig Addressee, w/atts
1 - C/DCD, wo/atts
3 - C/Staff A, wo/atts

---

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL 092000Z SEP 76 STAFF
CITE DCD/MIAMI 13506
TO: PRIORITY DCD/HEADQUARTERS
TO: OFFICE OF THE CHIEF (SPILMAN) FROM HENNESSEY

SUBJ: FIELD OFFICE ASSISTANCE TO OGC
REF: SPILMAN/MAINWARING TELECON, 9 SEPTEMBER 1975, SAME SUBJECT

1. IN RESPONSE TO A TELEPHONE CALL FROM DEPUTY CHIEF, DCD, ON 23 AUGUST 1975, WE MADE HOTEL RESERVATIONS IN CORAL GABLES, FLORIDA, FOR WALTER LLOYD, OGC, FOR THE NIGHT OF 23 AUGUST. THE MIAMI FIELD OFFICE WAS HELD OPEN THAT EVENING FOR A MEETING ATTENDED BY MR. LLOYD, SAMUEL SHERES, US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND WILLIAM WARNER, NO DRUG ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION. JACK HENNESSEY, DCD/MIAMI, ALSO ATTENDED AND PROVIDED A SHORT GENERAL BRIEFING ON DCD OPERATIONS. FOR THE MOST PART, THE MEETING CONSISTED OF A DISCUSSION OF THE PAST RELATIONSHIP OF MITCHELL L. WERBELL III WITH BKHERALD, ESPECIALLY WITH DCD AS REVEALED IN THE DCD MEMORANDUM TO OSC DATED MARCH 1975.

2. WE WERE ADVISED BY TELEPHONE DURING THE EVENING OF 27 AUGUST BY A. THOMANN, DCD DUTY OFFICER, AND SUBSEQUENTLY BY WALTER LLOYD, THAT LLOYD WOULD VISIT MIAMI AGAIN ON 30 AUGUST IN CONNECTION WITH THE WERBELL CASE. LLOYD DID NOT TASK DCD/MIA IN ANY WAY DURING THIS VISIT. HOWEVER, HE DID CHECK IN WITH US LOCALLY BY TELEPHONE UPON ARRIVAL IN THE MIAMI AREA. HE CALLED US AGAIN DURING THE EVENING OF 31 AUGUST AFTER HIS RETURN FLIGHT TO WASHINGTON, D.C., AS A COURTESY SINCE HE DID NOT HAVE THE TIME TO CONTACT US PRIOR TO HIS DEPARTURE FROM MIAMI.

3. MR. LLOYD AGAIN RETURNED TO MIAMI, THIS TIME ONBOARD A SAF JET STAR AIRCRAFT, EARLY ON THE MORNING OF 2 SEPTEMBER. HE CONTACTED US THAT AFTERNOON BY TELEPHONE TO REQUEST THAT WE KEEP OPEN THE FIELD OFFICE SO THAT HE COULD DEPOSIT CLASSIFIED FILES IN OUR VAULT OVERNIGHT. HE APPEARED AT THE FIELD OFFICE AT 1715 HOURS AND BRIEFED US ON HIS TRAVELS DURING THE DAY. HE PLACED TWO FOLDERS OF CLASSIFIED MATERIAL IN OUR VAULT FOR THE NIGHT, AND RECLAIMED THEM ON THE FOLLOWING MORNING, 3 SEPTEMBER. IN ADDITION TO MAKING WORKING SPACE AVAILABLE TO LLOYD FOR A COUPLE OF HOURS DURING THE MORNING OF 3 SEPTEMBER, WE MADE OURSELVES AVAILABLE FOR ANY FURTHER ASSISTANCE THAT MIGHT HAVE BEEN REQUIRED THAT DAY. HOWEVER, NOTHING FURTHER WAS REQUESTED OF US. THE LOCAL OS OFFICE PROVIDED AN ESCORT FOR LLOYD'S RETURN COMMERCIAL FLIGHT TO WASHINGTON LATER THAT AFTERNOON. LLOYD ADVISED US IN THE MEANTIME, HOWEVER, THAT THE LOCAL JUDGE HANDLING THE WERBELL CASE ASKED FOR LLOYD TO APPEAR IN MIAMI AGAIN DURING THE FOLLOWING WEEK, WHICH APPARENTLY BECAME UNNECESSARY SINCE WERBELL AND HIS CO-DEFENDANTS WERE ACQUITTED OF ALL CHARGES BY THE JURY ON 3 SEPTEMBER.

4. AFTER RECEIVING TWO OR THREE TELEPHONE CALLS FROM MR. SHERES, DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE, MIAMI, ON 25 AUGUST, DURING WHICH HE ASKED FOR BKHERALD INFORMATION HELD IN BKHERALD HEADQUARTERS FILES, US SUGGESTED THAT HE CALL LLOYD DIRECTLY AT HIS OGC OFFICE. WE BELIEVE THAT THE ATTEMPTED USE OF DCD/MIAMI AS A CHANNEL BY SHERES STEMMED FROM THE SEEMING (TO HIM) EXPEDIENT NATURE OF SUCH AN ARRANGEMENT AS MUCH AS FROM A BASIC MISUNDERSTANDING OF BKHERALD'S CHAIN OF COMMAND AND INFORMATION FLOW STRUCTURE. NEVERTHELESS, NO SUBSTANTIAL DIFFICULTIES DEVELOPED DURING THE VISITS TO DCD/MIAMI BY LLOYD.

---

14-00000

MEMORANDUM FOR: Watts

Attached is all the material DCD has on Mitchell Werbell. He has been the subject of several communications between DCD'S FIO/PIC staff and OGC and the FIO staff in the DDO. Also attached is the microfilm records on Arnold A. Bayard. I don't think he is the Colonel Bayard referred to in the memo, but it is hard to tell since we don't have any bio data on him.

---

14-00000

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, SOG
Chief, DCD
Chief, LA Division
SUBJECT: Mitchell Livingston Werbel III
REFERENCE: OGC 76-0844

DATE: 24 February 1976

1. I was advised by the Justice Department on 23 February that Werbel has been indicted and the trial is scheduled to begin on 29 March in Miami, Florida. The charges relate to importing and distributing quantities of marijuana. With Werbel's propensity to raise his past affiliations with the Agency, we can anticipate problems during this trial. An additional problem is presented because Werbel is defended by Edwin Marger who was the defense attorney for John Hawk in the B-26 case in Buffalo, New York in 1966. It was Edwin Marger who subpoenaed the CIA General Counsel as a defense witness.

2. The Justice Department has received information that a person either currently or formerly affiliated with the CIA has been participating in Werbel's meetings with his attorney. It would be appreciated if all addressees could review their holdings on Werbel and determine if there is any validity to any recent contacts with him. I would urge that instructions be sent to Miami-that no, repeat no, contact with Werbel take place between now and the beginning of the trial.

3. It would be helpful if each addressee could prepare a summary of the various contacts Werbel has had with CIA in the past. Please check to see if you have any information on a Colonel Bayard who was killed in Atlanta, Georgia during the summer of 1975. Bayard, reportedly an associate of Werbel's, had previous contacts with the Agency. It would be appreciated if your responses could be received by close of business 2 March.

John K. Greaney
Associate General Counsel

---

14-00000

ARROLD A. BAYARD
1175 York Avenue
New York City, New York

Subject is resident within 3077715-M. L. Bayard Company, Inc.
157416

---

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

INTEROFFICE MEMORANDUM

TO: Chief, Case Division
FROM: Chief, Security Division

SUBJECT: Security Clearance

Reference is made to your request for a security clearance on the subject.

[ ] No additional information has been obtained, except for such biographic information.

[ ] Information has been received that Subject was investigated with favorable results in [the attachment].

[ ] Certain information has been received and appears in the attachment which your Division will wish to consider in determining the level of your use of Subject.

[ ] Subject furnished information to that channel by a statement.

Should it be disclosed that this information is erroneous or that Subject is known by a different name, this Division should be notified immediately.

---

14-00000

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
BIOGRAPHIC

1175 York Ave., N.Y.
(and dist. police)
(Durla police)

---

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

Control

March 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Washington
Chief, Staff
SUBJECT: Mitchell Livingston Werbell III

1. The attached memorandum was prepared for John Greaney, OGC, who requested a summary of our records on Mitchell Werbell III. Werbell is to be tried in March 1976 in Florida on a charge of importing narcotics. I anticipate that Werbell may claim some Agency connection because he has done so in the past. Greaney also asked about our connections with Colonel Bayard who is mentioned in paragraph 4 of the attached memorandum.

2. OGC has requested that there be no contact with Werbell at least until the trial is over. In view of Werbell's tendency to become involved in schemes with which the Agency cannot afford to be identified, I wish to emphasize the injunction against contact with him.

D. ZEIGER
Chief, Domestic Collection Division

Attachment:
Distribution:
2 - Washington
2 - Miami
2 - OGC
1 - C/PSZ

---

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL
2 March 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Office of General Counsel
ATTENTION: John K. Greaney
VIA: Deputy Director for Operations
SUBJECT: Mitchell Livingston Werbell III
REFERENCE: OGC 76-0344 dated 24 February 1976

1. A review of DCD records indicates that Mitchell Werbell III was an occasional contact and source of this Division from 24 July 1959, when he first initiated the contact, until March 1971. It appears from our records that all of the contacts were at Werbell's volition and that at no time was he viewed as a particularly useful or reliable source. Werbell did provide unsolicited information which was reported by DCD in seven foreign intelligence information reports. To January 1970 DCD responded to a Freedom of Information inquiry from Werbell. Copies of the documents released to him are available from the DDO/PIC.

2. After meeting with Werbell at his own request in July 1959 the Chief of the Miami Field Office noted in a memorandum for the Record that little credence could be placed in anything Werbell said. During succeeding contacts Werbell provided information which resulted in the following reports:

    a. Photographs of Canarioca Harbor, Cuba (1965)
    b. Dope and arms running, Dominican Republic (1965)
    c. Planned coup in Guatemala (1966)
    d. Political, economic, military situation in Dominican Republic (1966)
    e. Planned invasion of Haiti (1966)
    f. Planned invasion of Haiti (1966)
    g. Venezuelan request for arms (1967)

---

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL 271454Z FEB 76 STAFF
CITE DCD/WASHINGTON 13234
TO PRIORITY DCD/MIAMI
FROM ZEIMER
SUBJECT: MITCHELL L. WERBELL, III

HAS MIAMI FIELD OFFICE HAD ANY CONTACT WITH WERBELL DURING PAST YEAR? WHEN WAS LAST CONTACT?

---

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL 271686Z FEB 76 STAFF
CITE DCD/MIAMI 13136

TO: PRIORITY DCD/WASHINGTON
ATTN: OFFICE OF THE CHIEF (ZEIMER)

SUBJECT: MITCHELL L. WERBELL, III
REF: DCD/WASHINGTON 13334

WE HAVE HAD NO RECENT CONTACT WHATSOEVER WITH MITCHELL WERBELL, III. THE LAST CONTACT BY THIS OFFICE WAS A TELEPHONE CALL RECEIVED BY JAY GLEICHAUF ON 9 MARCH 1971 AND DISCUSSED IN MIM-956-71.

---

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL 262056Z FEB 76 STAFF
CITE DCD/WASHINGTON 13975
TO PRIORITY DCD/MIAMI
FROM ZEIMER

SUBJECT: MITCHELL L. WERBELL III

JUSTICE DEPARTMENT HAS ADVISED OGC THAT SUBJECT HAS BEEN INDICTED AND TRIAL WILL BEGIN ON 29 MARCH 1976. THERE MUST BE NO REPEAT NO DCD CONTACT WITH WERBELL EVEN IF HE SHOULD ATTEMPT TO INITIATE THE CONTACT.

---

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL
22 January 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: DDO/PIC
ATTENTION: Hal Matter
SUBJECT: P 76-023 - Mitchell Livingston Werbell, III

1. DCD records reflect that Subject has been in contact with the Agency since 1959. The last record of contact with Subject was in March 1971.

2. The documents in DCD's file which pertain to Subject fit into the following categories:

    a. CIA Office of Security namecheck data. (OS File Number 27686) One biographic data sheet is attached for release to Subject provided those portions marked with brackets are deleted from the released version.

    b. Eighteen internal documents are attached and may be released to Subject provided those portions marked with brackets are deleted from the released versions. Deletions are based on exemptions (j)(1)(a), (j)(1)(b), (j)(1)(d), (j)(1)(e), (j)(1)(f) and (k)(1).

    c. Attached are two newspaper articles which pertain to Subject and which may be released to him.

    d. DCD also has a document which reflects that Subject provided DCD with 56 black and white photographs taken of the Camarioca Harbor area of Cuba. DCD has neither the originals nor copies of these photographs although they may be retrievable from NPIC. Should Subject request that these photographs be returned to him, we would make every effort to surface them.

---

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: P 76-023 - Mitchell Livingston Werbell, III

f. A copy