```markdown
14-00000
104-10171-10138 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

OFFICIAL DISPATCH
FROM: Chief of Station, Paris
TO: Chief, WZ
DATE: 5 February 1953
SUBJECT: GENERAL: Operational
SPECIFIC: Frits (aka Fred) SIOO
REF: State Dept Control Cable 1437, 14 Nov 52, from Bonn

1. On 11 Jan 52, the Press Attaché of the Paris Embassy wrote us the following memorandum:

   "According to French records, Fred SIOO was born May 31, 1903 in Berlin. He was trained as a lawyer, left Germany in 1931, and appeared in France in 1933. In 1939, he enlisted in the Foreign Legion. Sometime in 1940, he was demobilized in Morocco. He fled to Switzerland in 1942, and returned to Paris in May 1945. Since that time, he has worked for "Die Welt" in Zurich, "Libera Stampa," a Socialist daily in Lugano, and other papers. In 1949, he went to work for "Die Zeit," the British-controlled newspaper in Hamburg. In February 1951, he was replaced on that paper by a German. At the present time, he works for "Radio Sarrebruck," as well as for "Der Bund." He was naturalized French in 1947.

   "Recently, he was cleared by SHAPE to cover everything from the Pyrenees to the Elbe. He did so and sent a report on the Atlantic Forces. His articles were considered of value by the French, and some were translated to the press review bulletin, "Documentation."

   "Some time after the articles had appeared, however, a French official expressed astonishment that SIOO had been given such wide accreditation. Though he had no proof to offer, this same official made the statement that SIOO was known to the French as an agent of the Cominform. He gave no further derogatory information."

2. We checked our files, found no previous record of Subject, and informed the Press Attaché accordingly.

3. On 17 Nov 52, the Press Attaché called our attention to State Dept. Control cable 1437, from Bonn, dated 14 Nov 52, a copy of which is attached hereto for your convenience. Basing our request on the information contained in para 1 above, and on the attached cable from Bonn, we submitted queries concerning Subject to both UNION and UNBOUND.

4. On 28 Jan 53, we received the following reply from UNBOUND:

   "Frits (aka Fred) SIOO, born 31 May 1903 Berlin, of German origin, the son of Wilhelm and Martha TULO, acquired French nationality by naturalization on 1 April 1920. On 19 October 1933 in Paris 10a, he married his compatriot Else STRIEGL, born 24 August 1905 in Berlin. They have one child, born 25 May 1937, of French nationality.

   "Subject joined the Foreign Legion in 1940 and was demobilized 1 February 1941. In 1942, fearing arrest as he was interned in a camp in the occupied zone, he decided to go with his wife to Switzerland. Upon his arrival in Switzerland, he was arrested for clandestine border-crossing and interned in a camp at Martigny (Valais). Later, he was transferred to a labor camp at Storm. During his stay in Switzerland, he allegedly wrote several articles under the pseudonym "Bonal" in the Swiss socialist press, notably in the paper "Libera Stampa."

   "In May 1945, he returned to France and settled at Ventrouges (Saône), where he still resides at 211 Avenue Pierre Brossolette. Since 1945, he has had a legal office at 9 rue d'Hauteville, Paris 10a, where, according to a generally reliable source, he is reported to have held meetings with KONSTANTINOV of the Soviet Commercial Delegation (tel. Kle 2000 A 11555) and with LUCHINI of the Soviet Information Bureau. The activity of this legal office is, in fact, almost negligible.

   "Since 1945, he also has operated an office for the settlement of disputed claims for the International Reserve and Relief Committee (I.R.R.C.), 35 Blvd. des Capucines, Paris. He equally is administrator of the firm "Vravaek and Sluit" of Antwerp, Belgium."

5. SIOO devotes the greater part of his activity, however, to journalism. He is a correspondent of various French and foreign newspapers, notably the Swiss paper "Der Bund." He is accredited officially to the French Ministry of Information. SIOO has entered numerous visas for foreign countries in order to fulfill his professional obligations.

6. He has never attracted attention from the political point of view, but we suspect him of being identical with an individual of the same name who belonged to the Swiss "Rote Kapelle" network.

7. SIOO is in contact with a man named BURCKHARDT (sic see para 5 below), now a correspondent of "Der Bund" in Paris, and who also is suspected of being identical with an ex-agent of the "Rote Kapelle."

8. We are continuing our investigation of Frits SIOO.

9. With regard to the BURCKHARDT mentioned above by UNBOUND, we since have consulted with the Press Attaché, who has been able to identify him as follows:

   "Hans BURCHARDT, born 9 September 1906 in Lohr, Germany, presently residing at 103 Blvd. Voltaire, Paris 11a, occasional correspondent for "Der Bund," accredited as a journalist to the Présidence du Conseil on 10 February 1945, also works for the Vereinigten Wirtschafts Dienst of Frankfurt, is known as a curious journalist, but otherwise as a doubtful individual."

10. On 6 Feb 53, we received the following less complete reply from UNIQI:

   "Frits (aka Fred) SIOO, formerly a German lawyer, took refuge in France in 1933. He has opened a legal office in Paris and also occupies himself with journalism. Until now, no unfavorable information has been obtained concerning him."

11. We are making all of the above information available to both the Embassy Press Attaché and to SHAPE. We would appreciate receiving all possible further derogatory information concerning SIOO, his various contacts, and his activities. We would be interested to receive, in particular, any information to confirm UNIQI's suspicion that SIOO, and/or BURCKHARDT, used to belong to the "Rote Kapelle" network.

Distribution:
Each: 3
Brussels: 2
Frankfurt: 1
Berlin: 1
Bern: 1
Registry: 5
Lloyd D. Millar

FEATURE CARD REPRODUCTIONS

Page 4

AM
SEME DO
Y
a
1
&
inte
tal force
who are wine to a friendly to the
67 628 pe
Am
!
mas
about pilitary disclosuree in no hearing titi "Nicht Nega in
Bustoqueir Vent by Frodo, Paria
correspondeat for hart wat
put:lister Paul Haupt. book
shortly
ay format
to Simson's observations of
activities in France and
all installat
TANZANE »
HANNE
S SECURITY INDO
2
17 FEB 7
Ich
نمی دانند

Page 5

14-00000
AIR
AT7.1
IK.V
Chief, um
Chief, F/2
VICE
CONFIDENTIAL
ASPU
802-A-1701
1 gotebar 1994
EXPO Al Poals
Calaf of Wasion, Moto Jenire
National/07/04
Interrogation of maston aigrent from him in presil
Trailted narwith in triplicate is prepari
by Willi Wording, interrogatiofiza
Colgruite tre l
ونا لتنحت امضا
3-p, in triplicate
Distributio
3- Headquarter
2
2
tão Paulo,
Files, w/att.
BRAKES
wall
ett notes
AL
Warle . Rafter
-170
CAREPRODUCTIONS

Page 6

14-00000
ITIAL
C
AURORANDON FOR THE FILES
SUBJECT Passing of h reports to Brasilian Eathorities.
NE7.
1152-1-517
79. October 1951
On 18 October, Marcos EASTOS, AUMATI's colleague in the Brain Federal
Folitical Folica, informed his that on 15 October had rebaitted to the
Chief of Polation of the reports had received from ERMATHY.
( and bean given by Y starilised versions of HD-1 to 12-15,
inclusive, and K-17 to R-29, inclusive, along with the biographical information
of the sources of reporta. PR-25-30 were not passed to BASTOS
because they had been obtained from ALLOPATHY.)
2. On 27 October BASTC informed ? that the translation of the reporta
had a forwarded by the Chief of Folics to Colonel MERAMIO, the present
band of the Fedoral litical Folica in Rə də Jangtze, tho, in turn, had
formandad it to Josi HICOLDLY, head of the Folitical Division of the Folitical
Police, for his recommandations. 370 statal that ts believed HOCRIMALI
would recommal that the reports be forwarded to the Foreign Office and the
Var Ministry. MASTUS alto intends to give a copy of the translations to
Ribeiro da ANDE, head of the Servicio da Vilancia of the Department of
Political and Social Order (D.0.P.S.), São Paulo, who has indicated an interest
in receiving it.
3. As an introduction to the translation of the reports, LASTOS described briefly
Brazil's Statoloss refuges immigration probics and the voluntary welfare
organizations which assist the immigrants in gaining entry to, and sattling
in, Drasil. The translation of this introduction is as follows
"The current immigration of White Russians into Brasil began in 1913. It
has dininiched since June 1954 in the face of the decision taken by the
National Institute of Colonication int Imigration (Instituto Kacional de
Imigração Colonies) (N.I.X.C.) on 16 Jun 1954. On that date, the
Directorate of the .I.I.C. decided to request that the Ministry of Foreign
Relations take the necessary steps to stop the issuance of vicas for
stateless percons for a period of sixty days.
ron 30 Juns, Vicente RUD, thon Foreign Minister, cant a circular to all t●
consulates ordering a stoppage in the issuance of vicas until a final
decision could be reached.
03 22 September, the Foreign Office issued to the consulates new instructions,
according to which, generally speaking, stateless imigrants are permitted
entry to Erazil caly if they have in Brazil relatives in the direct line of
descent whose economic situation is such that they can guarantee the
cabsistence of the inaigrants.

Page 7

14-00000
1
Nevertheless, it may be noted that there are various stateless persona
in Hong Kong, with their respective pasaporta in order, salting accomodations
on one of the five of the long ones the "BOISEVA,
The diffibulties which the international organisations counter in obtaining
complete and reliable information on the immigrants are due to a large extent
to the fact that those imigrants dlsays reside in areas far removed from
the locales of the organizational offices. One must also recognise tho
fact that included among the statales imigrante is a large mer of
persons useful to brazil, much as the following types of workers chanics,
engineers, electricians, chemista, etc.
"There are twelve international organizations who are responsible for proparing
the imigrants for the journey or batter, the wit of those stataless
rofugees from China and various European countries. They cras
•
1. A.J.D.C. - American Joint Distribution Committed, with offices in Rio
and São Paulo.
2. E.0.1. - Entr'Allo Ouvriere Internationale (International Workers'
Lutual Aid)
3. H.I.A.S.
Hebrew immigrant Aid Socioty, with offices in Rio and São
Paulo.
4. I.C.M.C. - International Catholic Migration Commission, with offices
in Riɔ and São Paulɔ.
5.
5. 1.5.9. - Intonational Social Service, with offices in Bio and São Paulo.
I.R.C.
7. L.W.F.
8.
International Rosco Comittco. Has no represcatatives in Brasil.
Lutheran World Federation, with offices in Rio and São Paulo.
N.C.M.C. - National Catholic Wolfaro Conference, with offices in Rio
and São Paulo.
9. S.A.E. Suios Ald to Europe. Has no representation in Brazil.
10. T.F. - Tolstoi Foundation, with offices in Rio and São Paulo.
11. U.U.A.K.C. - United Ukranian Arican Ralior Colttos, :
12. W.C.C. - World Council of Churches, with offices in Rio and São Paulo.
"Two of those organizations handle the largest number of arrivals. Ono
is the W.C.C. who office in Rio is located at Praia do Fleman, 180,
cpt. 602; its office in São Paulo is at a D. Voridiana, 370. The
Failo office is under the direction of Wiss Rachel de CARVALLO. (2) The
other organisation to the N.C.V.C., whose offico in Rio is at Avorida
Churchill Co; its office in So Paulo is in the Church of Peace (Igroja
da Pas) on kig plicurio. The São Paulo office in under the direction of
Fathor Mario. (3)
Since 25 April 1754, mary stateless persons wis have been unable to obtain
a visa for Brazil, Canada or Australia have boon sepatriated to the U.S.S.3.
As a result of this repatriation, it is possible, though not probable, that
soms olemanta may be sant fica China to Brazil to engage in cubversiva.
activities hore, while members of their families, who have been repatriated
to Russia, are held as hostages there."
-.2-
CARD REPRODUCTIONS

Page 8

14-00000
Comments
1. RYOD-046 reported on 2 October 1954 that about 60 such stateless
rofess with entry visas for Brasil issued prior to 30 Jina 135 ore in
Hong Ang watting for transportation to Brasil.
VENDRE I
2. The head of the W.C.C. office in Rio is Andró MOURATIEFF, no i
conuently Dologate of W.C.C. for all Latin America and, in this capacity,
is ss CARVALHO's superior.
3. The head of the N.C.M.C. in Rio is Waltor DUSINICS, who is the overall
head of N.C.W.C. activities in Brazil, in which capacity he is Father Mario's
superior. DUS:DYCK's chief assistant in Rio lo Hios Adalaida da Costa AZEVEDO.

Page 9

14-00000
3
3P
RSUTİNƏ NÖ PESCIE
bea
22DE
FP Syn
心
00
"
سمنان
-
Fican
VL
State
DISSECTED 0.5.6
F
1
"▼ 01:30 ?
TUDORFENICAL SUBMITTED

Page 10

14-00000
SEJEST
ONTROL/1.5, FICIAL GILY
ATY NOFOLLATION
12. January 1952
Proa
Free Par
Heport Bt5929
one
_No of E
Qusta Peterson
David C. Talbot
Apired Br.
Distribution
By copy 40
->
Pilot WY
UARY
PCP - OOT
Bourse STE
UNNECESSARY.
Hource, Operational Data, and Commento.
3.20
Desily to
No 1.
Subjects Joseph LEGRAND Reassigned
Cosmoent
For tracce on the individuals named in
the attached see the followings
LEGRAND - PM-7016 (#1), and othere
GARY, Balle - EC-7) 870-419
RODE, Baile - 17-11-518
DECOSS, Loon - - - WC-515
ML (fm) 70-177.
LENDIKE, Charles - WPA-1968 and others
Classification ERCOTICS - VIAL CIVICIRAS CHELY
10C7
14.7-1159

Page 11

14-00000
SECRET
CONT OL/US. OFFICIALS ONLY
SECURITY INFOCIATION
"Subject: Joseph L. (UND
•
Place Acquired France, Paris
Evaluation: )
Feport No:
KP 5929.
Date of Information: Current
Date Acquired: 8 January 1952
Date of Report: 12 January 1952
Cource: Through, a fairly reliable source fria an informant with PP contacta.
1. (Josep AID, involved in the "Prontor affair" and as a rosult
expallet fra tha Central (maltes of the FCP in the Spring of
1951, was recently re-salmed the position as Adminstrative
Gecretary of the Regional Kinara Federation (COT) in the Word.
and PassionCalais regions. Auguste was instrumental in
scfuring the reassigment for LERAND, according to anuroo.
2. X (Loon) 107 (Calle) who wore in charge for two years
of the reorganisation of the Regional Fedoration have been placed
under Ulla orders and have been charged with Pinauffioicnt
action".
3. D has been given "full pawara" to visit all syndfestes and
to eliminate the
sento judged usessary, reducing
the directing contra of the various cyndicatos, Scures stated
Chat D'a cotivitios era partially dotated by finansiel
necessity and that staffs will be reduced for econcato reasons.
Num23 (fm), Cacratory of the Hindra' syrulicate of Demain (Hord),
tza, boza charged with reorganising the Valanoicanos costor, in
particular the [-ufac region, which fagy fallen into
lethargy to a result of the incrtio of the traiteCallo)%,
According to soures, QL13, forcar Cecretary Meneral of the mineral
COP rallata in Asia, ha for some time been in itna for
Call to a result of lack of dissipline and incompetence in
emilenta cffaira. Rosover, no one wanted to take the responsibility
for die Joong MS, a first aut porformed by LCD in his p
position to fire a.
,
5. W recebly catered that he has been given full poor
to puro alrere synticata end them (Chaplea) will no
to a coat in the next elections for mineral colicatoa.
No.
01.05
Classificatica SECRET/CONTRC3 – U.0, C7FICIALS ONLY
29-7-1-159
APERTURE CARD REPRODUCTIONS

Page 12

14-00000
VIA:
101
10
'FHOM
كل
OFFICIAL DISPATCH
DISPATCH 40
(201-28275)
PLASSIFICATION
Chief of Station, Paris ATE
SUBJECT
NERAL
Proieric SICU
Prit SH30
ŒPA–80, 2 Frimary 1.13
1. The following tiferiation on Proderic SEC, believed to be
identical with, your subject, ha Lood tranal ples arm refert in
Gorman resolved from "unll-placed source in the last Germ Goverment”
⚫ and transaltted to hoviquartory in 1928-0606, 14 Marah. 1/551
SO, Prod
311 in herita
Address Nontron replic
Profession: Journalist, cuntly sorrespondent of the
Suluovapor or ", the Corman daily
• "Dio Kalt"; quofo Stuttgart".
Jumatry
A politically deuitful pardon to received un entrance
visu ie Meat Vernay vull fer six months on
152. Accasting to information from the French Ministry
of Inturier (the (5) 1,), 50CC was working for the Communist
paper "Die Zuku" (Hunzenbarger) tofore the vara during
the fort Svi mist nouspapers "Die lnt", "Valks-
stima", mal "Arbolternating leally not a Commist
Atay rate so stated the present Press Atton
ord (Gorun Consulate General, Fo
Apple fo
of the Qumsul
January SEON Just sites unitation on or of
Snowper, "Do We", "cure" (Bali);
Nationality Pomerly God (Jay) out 1754 to
Fran viere in quo
to
is own statement, o van digised by the West German Pross
Office in Bonn to Apply gain for German citizenship ça ba,
RELEASING OFFER
Marles White movi
Paul Binisal
FORM NO.2.1.
JUN 1949
Minglew
V
OFFICER
CLASSIFICATION
THENTICATING OFFICE
G. Cuietan
7
+18:
REPRODUCTIONS

Page 13

14-00000
SIL davotos the greater part of his activity, however,
to journalica. He is a correspondint of various French and
forviga nastupore, notably the Buice paper "Dor Band." Ko
is eccredited officially to the French Ministry of Information.
Ratas catered numerous vices for foreign countries in order
to fulfill his professional obligations.
Ha has novor attracted attention from the political point
point of vica, but to cuspect hiu of being identical with an
individual of the same name who belonged to the Swiss "Rɔtə
Kapollo notwork.
-
SSON 1 in contact with a can pased EURCHHARET (sic
coo para 5 below), now a correspondent of "Der Bund" in
Faric, and who also io munpected of being identical with an !
ox-agent of the "Rote Kapollo."
Ea are contiming our investigation of Frits SDS).
5. Gith regard to the BURCK? mentioned above by UNDOUND, w
since have consulted with the Press Attachs, who has been able to iden
tify him as folloñas
F
2013.1
Hand LURCHTARD?, born 9 September 1906 in Lohr, Germany,
pantly residing at 105 Bvd. Voltaire, Paris 11a, eccacale
correcpeadeat for "Der Band," accredited as a journalist to
the Froidance da Calcall ca 10 February 1945, alco works
for the Voreinigten Wirtschafts Dienst of Frankfurt, is
mona ca a carious journalist, but otherwise as a doubtful
individual.
6. Fab 53, to received the following loss completo reply
from UNIQI:
Frits (en Fred) 110), formerly a Corman lampor, took
rofuga in France in 1933. Es has opened a legal office in
Fario and alco occupics Melf with journalics. Catil now,
no unfavorable informatica has been obtainted concerning him.
7. Is are making all of the shove information available to both
the beery Fross Attacks and to SAFE. Ws would appreciate receiving
all possible further dorezatory information concerning SHE, bis
various contests, and his estivities. Es would be interested to receive,
in particuler, any informatica to confira D's cuspicion that
snsα, and/or BURCKHARDT, wood to belong to the "Roto Repello" network.
Distribution:
Eschi 3
Bruss
Freaks 1
Berli 1
Earns I
Regler 5
1
Lloyd D. Lapor
ཏྭཾ, ༢༦.༢༡ –
D 2005
FEATURE CARD REPRODUCTIONS

Page 14

14-00000
AM
SEME DO
Y
a
1
&
inte
tal force
who are wine to a friendly to the
67 628 pe
Am
!
mas
about pilitary disclosuree in no hearing titi "Nicht Nega in
Bustoqueir Vent by Frodo, Paria
correspondeat for hart wat
put:lister Paul Haupt. book
shortly
ay format
to Simson's observations of
activities in France and
all installat
TANZANE »
HANNE
S SECURITY INDO
2
17 FEB 7
Ich
نمی دانند

Page 15

14-00000
AIR
AT7.1
IK.V
Chief, um
Chief, F/2
VICE
CONFIDENTIAL
ASPU
802-A-1701
1 gotebar 1994
EXPO Al Poals
Calaf of Wasion, Moto Jenire
National/07/04
Interrogation of maston aigrent from him in presil
Trailted narwith in triplicate is prepari
by Willi Wording, interrogatiofiza
Colgruite tre l
ونا لتنحت امضا
3-p, in triplicate
Distributio
3- Headquarter
2
2
tão Paulo,
Files, w/att.
BRAKES
wall
ett notes
AL
Warle . Rafter
-170
CAREPRODUCTIONS

Page 16

14-00000
ITIAL
C
AURORANDON FOR THE FILES
SUBJECT Passing of h reports to Brasilian Eathorities.
NE7.
1152-1-517
79. October 1951
On 18 October, Marcos EASTOS, AUMATI's colleague in the Brain Federal
Folitical Folica, informed his that on 15 October had rebaitted to the
Chief of Polation of the reports had received from ERMATHY.
( and bean given by Y starilised versions of HD-1 to 12-15,
inclusive, and K-17 to R-29, inclusive, along with the biographical information
of the sources of reporta. PR-25-30 were not passed to BASTOS
because they had been obtained from ALLOPATHY.)
2. On 27 October BASTC informed ? that the translation of the reporta
had a forwarded by the Chief of Folics to Colonel MERAMIO, the present
band of the Fedoral litical Folica in Rə də Jangtze, tho, in turn, had
formandad it to Josi HICOLDLY, head of the Folitical Division of the Folitical
Police, for his recommandations. 370 statal that ts believed HOCRIMALI
would recommal that the reports be forwarded to the Foreign Office and the
Var Ministry. MASTUS alto intends to give a copy of the translations to
Ribeiro da ANDE, head of the Servicio da Vilancia of the Department of
Political and Social Order (D.0.P.S.), São Paulo, who has indicated an interest
in receiving it.
3. As an introduction to the translation of the reports, LASTOS described briefly
Brazil's Statoloss refuges immigration probics and the voluntary welfare
organizations which assist the immigrants in gaining entry to, and sattling
in, Drasil. The translation of this introduction is as follows
"The current immigration of White Russians into Brasil began in 1913. It
has dininiched since June 1954 in the face of the decision taken by the
National Institute of Colonication int Imigration (Instituto Kacional de
Imigração Colonies) (N.I.X.C.) on 16 Jun 1954. On that date, the
Directorate of the .I.I.C. decided to request that the Ministry of Foreign
Relations take the necessary steps to stop the issuance of vicas for
stateless percons for a period of sixty days.
ron 30 Juns, Vicente RUD, thon Foreign Minister, cant a circular to all t●
consulates ordering a stoppage in the issuance of vicas until a final
decision could be reached.
03 22 September, the Foreign Office issued to the consulates new instructions,
according to which, generally speaking, stateless imigrants are permitted
entry to Erazil caly if they have in Brazil relatives in the direct line of
descent whose economic situation is such that they can guarantee the
cabsistence of the inaigrants.

Page 7

14-00000
1
Nevertheless, it may be noted that there are various stateless persona
in Hong Kong, with their respective pasaporta in order, salting accomodations
on one of the five of the long ones the "BOISEVA,
The diffibulties which the international organisations counter in obtaining
complete and reliable information on the immigrants are due to a large extent
to the fact that those imigrants dlsays reside in areas far removed from
the locales of the organizational offices. One must also recognise tho
fact that included among the statales imigrante is a large mer of
persons useful to brazil, much as the following types of workers chanics,
engineers, electricians, chemista, etc.
"There are twelve international organizations who are responsible for proparing
the imigrants for the journey or batter, the wit of those stataless
rofugees from China and various European countries. They cras
•
1. A.J.D.C. - American Joint Distribution Committed, with offices in Rio
and São Paulo.
2. E.0.1. - Entr'Allo Ouvriere Internationale (International Workers'
Lutual Aid)
3. H.I.A.S.
Hebrew immigrant Aid Socioty, with offices in Rio and São
Paulo.
4. I.C.M.C. - International Catholic Migration Commission, with offices
in Riɔ and São Paulɔ.
5.
5. 1.5.9. - Intonational Social Service, with offices in Bio and São Paulo.
I.R.C.
7. L.W.F.
8.
International Rosco Comittco. Has no represcatatives in Brasil.
Lutheran World Federation, with offices in Rio and São Paulo.
N.C.M.C. - National Catholic Wolfaro Conference, with offices in Rio
and São Paulo.
9. S.A.E. Suios Ald to Europe. Has no representation in Brazil.
10. T.F. - Tolstoi Foundation, with offices in Rio and São Paulo.
11. U.U.A.K.C. - United Ukranian Arican Ralior Colttos, :
12. W.C.C. - World Council of Churches, with offices in Rio and São Paulo.
"Two of those organizations handle the largest number of arrivals. Ono
is the W.C.C. who office in Rio is located at Praia do Fleman, 180,
cpt. 602; its office in São Paulo is at a D. Voridiana, 370. The
Failo office is under the direction of Wiss Rachel de CARVALLO. (2) The
other organisation to the N.C.V.C., whose offico in Rio is at Avorida
Churchill Co; its office in So Paulo is in the Church of Peace (Igroja
da Pas) on kig plicurio. The São Paulo office in under the direction of
Fathor Mario. (3)
Since 25 April 1754, mary stateless persons wis have been unable to obtain
a visa for Brazil, Canada or Australia have boon sepatriated to the U.S.S.3.
As a result of this repatriation, it is possible, though not probable, that
soms olemanta may be sant fica China to Brazil to engage in cubversiva.
activities hore, while members of their families, who have been repatriated
to Russia, are held as hostages there."
-.2-
CARD REPRODUCTIONS

Page 8

14-00000
Comments
1. RYOD-046 reported on 2 October 1954 that about 60 such stateless
rofess with entry visas for Brasil issued prior to 30 Jina 135 ore in
Hong Ang watting for transportation to Brasil.
VENDRE I
2. The head of the W.C.C. office in Rio is Andró MOURATIEFF, no i
conuently Dologate of W.C.C. for all Latin America and, in this capacity,
is ss CARVALHO's superior.
3. The head of the N.C.M.C. in Rio is Waltor DUSINICS, who is the overall
head of N.C.W.C. activities in Brazil, in which capacity he is Father Mario's
superior. DUS:DYCK's chief assistant in Rio lo Hios Adalaida da Costa AZEVEDO.

Page 9

14-00000
3
3P
RSUTİNƏ NÖ PESCIE
bea
22DE
FP Syn
心
00
"
سمنان
-
Fican
VL
State
DISSECTED 0.5.6
F
1
"▼ 01:30 ?
TUDORFENICAL SUBMITTED

Page 10

14-00000
SEJEST
ONTROL/1.5, FICIAL GILY
ATY NOFOLLATION
12. January 1952
Proa
Free Par
Heport Bt5929
one
_No of E
Qusta Peterson
David C. Talbot
Apired Br.
Distribution
By copy 40
->
Pilot WY
UARY
PCP - OOT
Bourse STE
UNNECESSARY.
Hource, Operational Data, and Commento.
3.20
Desily to
No 1.
Subjects Joseph LEGRAND Reassigned
Cosmoent
For tracce on the individuals named in
the attached see the followings
LEGRAND - PM-7016 (#1), and othere
GARY, Balle - EC-7) 870-419
RODE, Baile - 17-11-518
DECOSS, Loon - - - WC-515
ML (fm) 70-177.
LENDIKE, Charles - WPA-1968 and others
Classification ERCOT