(104-10187-10113 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992)

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

FROM:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES: 3

RI

SECRET

PERSONNEL NOTIFIED
COPY ☐ ADVANCE COPY
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

UNIT ISSUED ☐ SLOTTED ☐ TURCO
DDG WH/SAS of clits, 01/20
VR FILE

SALV

ACTION:

INFO:

SECRET 302210Z

DIR CITE SALV 5312
SUBAN DETECTOR
WHLDIV SUBA

REFS: A. SALV 5333 (IN 83009)
B. DIR 5338

CIA OFFICER: CUBAN DEFECTOR
DALTON
AND ONCE EACH ALONE AND ONCE TOGETHER SAW 2
DALTON
MORNING 30 SEPTEMBER.
TOON SAME. POSITION AS PARA 2 REF A.
DENIED KNOWING DESPITE CASE OFFICER RELATIONSHIP, REFUSED DISCUSS
CUBAN DEFECTOR
ANYTHING ABOUT CUBAN INTEL, AND BEGGED FOR RELEASE AND EXILE TO START
LIFE ANEW.
DALTON

2. OBTAINING TRUTH FROM WILL BE TIME CONSUMING. HE FULLY
AWARE PROOFS AGAINST HIM BUT PROBABLY HOPES POLITICAL PRESSURE WILL FORCE
RELEASE AND PROBABLY FEARS ADMISSION OF HIS COMPLICITY WILL NOT HELP
HIM. SALV GOVT MUST CONVINCE HIM HE WRONG ON BOTH COUNTS. HE OF
DUBIOUS VALUE INSOFAR AS CONTRIBUTING NEW INFO ABOUT PAST ACTIVITIES
OF CUBAN INTEL OR PCES BUT OF CONSIDERABLE INTEREST AS AGENT IF HE
CAN BE TARGETTED AGAINST CUBAN INTEL OR PCES. IF RELEASED WOULD BE
DEFINITE OBSTACLE TO FURTHER OPS AGAINST TARGETS.
CUBAN DEFECTOR
IF HE SHOULD
3. DOUBLED, HIS IMPRISONMENT WOULD COVER RECRUITMENT AND WOULD TEND TO
ENHANCE HIS VALUE. PROBABLY WOULD BE MOST USEFUL OUTSIDE SALV
INCLUDING MEXI AND CUBA.

--- Page 2 ---

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
PAGE

AS MATTERS STAND MOST IMPORTANT. TO PROTECT
EQUITY, IN
HOOF GREAT PROMISE. THIS OP COULD BE AFFECTED ADVERSELY
BY SPREAD OF NEWS ABOUT
CIA
EFFORTS ON HALF TO EFFECT
RECRUITMENTS. BECAUSE OF VALUE OF A
PREFER FOR PRESENT NOT
TO PROCEED AGAINST OTHERS WHO RECEIVED INTEL TRAINING. AFTER
IS PRODUCING AND AFTER PRUDENT INTERVAL CAN PROCEED WITH
RECRUITMENT EFFORT AGAINST OTHERS EITHER UNILATERALLY OR WITH LIAISON [24]
DEPENDING ON DEVELOPMENTS.

4. PROCEEDING WITH ARREST OF GUERRILLEROS TRAINED IN CUBA PROBABLY
WOULD BE BENEFICIAL AS LONG AS NOT ATTRIBUTED TO
SOME OF THOSE DETAINED MIGHT BE DOUBLED
AND TARGETTED AGAINST GUERRILLA GROUPS OR PCES.

5. APPRECIATE REF B TO WHICH WILL REPLY AFTER DISCUSSING FURTHER
PROSPECTS AND GOVT INTENTIONS WITH AND POSSIBLY PRESIDENT.

SECRET.
