JAspo000

104-10182-100008

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT: HEADQUARTERS BY HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF HE

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: WINSTON, HENRY

INCLUSIVE DATES: 1966

CUSTODIAL UNIT LOCATION: Agency

DATE RECEIVED: 3/17/75

DATE RETURNED: 23 MAY 77

REVISED BY (PRINT NAME): Betsy Wolf, Jeman Smith

SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL: Betsy Wolf

7 Nov. 78

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.

Third Agency Does Henry Winston Vol-1 201-6887

14-00000

Third Agency Does Henry Winston Vol-1 201-6887

14-00000

In accordance with (201 nu) most ac shou ha indicat collaborator OI Code A1.

potential witting collaborator; date opened (relationship terminated). OI Code A2.

former witting collaborator (relationship terminated). OI Code A3.

potential witting collaborator never contacted (security reasons, derogatory information). OI Code A4.

counterintelligence case (i.e. involving a foreign intelligence or security service). OI Code A5.

all others. OI Code A6.

Signed

This agreement has been entered into

This document 102/175/7 (component,

2 IMPDET.

When Filled CL BY

14-00000

There is information on an individual who may be identical with the subject of this 201 in OPS/ITG. For details call extension 5020.

KEEP THIS NOTICE FILED ON TOP OF 201-006887

14-00000

CAUTION: THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CONCERNING THE SUBJECT OF THIS 201 DOSSIER HAS BEEN EXTRACTED FROM ANOTHER OFFICIAL DO FILE.

PERSONS PERFORMING NAME TRACES ARE CAUTIONED THAT THE DOCUMENT FROM WHICH THIS EXTRACT WAS PREPARED CONTAINS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE SUBJECT AND SHOULD BE REQUESTED FROM IP/FILES.

WINSTON, HENRY 201-0006887

139/04

RES USA. MENTIONED IN ANALYSIS OF STORY OF AN AMERICAN COMMUNIST BY JOHN GATES.

DATE 22 MAR 74

09083288.

201-006887

E2 IMPDET CL BY 054979

P.56 17

MENTIONED IN DEBRIEFINGS OF SOVIET EMIGRES PDSOLE/1 AND PCSOLE/2

CATE 04 DEC. 09356242

00688

SF C. R. E

14-00000

SECRET

DO DOCUMENT EXTRACT

THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CONCERNING THE SUBJECT OF THIS 201 DOSSIER HAS BEEN EXTRACTED FROM ANOTHER OFFICIAL DO FILE

PERSONS PERFORMING NAME TRACES ARE CAUTIONED THAT THE DOCUMENT FROM WHICH THIS EXTRACT WAS PREPARED CONTAINS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE SUBJECT AND SHOULD BE REQUESTED FROM IP/FILES.

WINSTON, HENRY 201-0006887

SEX M

CIT USA

139/04

RES USA. MENTIONED IN ANALYSIS OF STORY OF AN AMERICAN COMMUNIST. BY JOHN GATES.

DATE 22 MAR 74

09083288.

201-006887

E2 IMPDET CL BY 054979

14-00000

TO WINE SERVICE

14-00000

NIXON.

UNITED STATES

THE GENOCIDAL POLICY IN CONDUCTED BY IMPERIALISM.

MOVEMENT OF THE MAJORITY OF ALL THE PEOPLE IN THE UNITED STATES WHICH GIVES AND OXFATES THE CONSTRONG FOR THE VISTE MOLE

TO HAVE THE TI GEASON THAT SUS H OF YOUNG ko.

PLANES AND ALL

14-00000

THOUSAND VILLAGES

((QUESTION)).

TELL ME IN THIS CONTEXT

RESPONSE TO ME, SOVIET PEACE DEFENSIVE

((ANSWER)) THE

THE UNITED STATES REFLECTS ITS IN GREETING THE POSITIONS

TAKEN BY THE PE

THIS INIT WILL NOTT AGAIN FACED WITH

HOLDS PROMINENT POSITION ON WHICH THE PERPLES OF LUA

TION))

14-00000

75040922

COURSE OF THE TATALI

((ANSWER)) FIRST OF ALL

COMMUNIST PARTY, FROM THE COMMITTEE FOR THE DEFENSE OF ANGELA

SELFLESSLY STRUGGLE FOR THE FULL PREFUQA

PERSECUTED BY TOTOIS AND RACIST IN THE UNITED STATES.

((QUESTION)). THANK YOU VERY MUCH

((ANS)) LA

HIGH 19

AND IT IS PART AND PARCEL OF THE CAST OF EXISTI

AGAINST THE PEOPLE VEETMAN, AND IT IS

THAT

LALISH DOES NOTT SUFPONT

SAY PROGRESSIVE

PPONTS ALL REACTIONARY

14-00000

STEF

THAT IS

OF THAT: COU

COUNT IN

RULINGS

SLATION

THE

THAT IS

THE APPROVAL OF NOW CARS

RE

THE

GELSSIVE

PEING MADE TO PREPARE

ANF AIMED AT

CURBING DEMOCRACY AND MANING IT POSSIBLE NOT ONLY TO HAVE

YOND THE SPA OUT ALEO To Suppbay Forges Thing The

THE HAR BEYON

UNITED STATES WHICH WOULD CRUSH HA LIBERATION VEPENT

AND CRACK THE UNITY OF THE KING/BROWN/HA

7611157

17 x

14-0000

1023

CORY T

NG

FHIS WASHO

CRUSA CHARAN WINDS STAR C5

((TEXT))

IST PARTY OF

OFF Y

PIS!

WINSTON

Whoista.

14-00000

THE SOCIALIST

TIATIVE

ALSO

OF CZECHOSLOVA

CZECHOSLOVAKIA SILLY DE AN INSPIRATION FO

COSTELL

USTY

The Czechos

tors

the GDR

POLI BURO MEMBER AXEN RECENTS

East Berlin SEJES

EAST GERMANY

n-Schonefeld Air-

collabora

ported

for

Hermann Axen cor

Central Committee

munists.

GDR working people

the

Sense of civil.

Axen extensively informed the U.S. workers leader about the implementation of the decisions of the Eighth Congress and the GDRs struggle for peace and security in Europe.

The talk once again confirmed the full agreement of the SED and the CPUSA on all basic questions of the struggle of the world communist movement and served the further deepening of the fraternal relations between the two parties.

At a very cordial meeting with representatives of the GDR Committee for Human Rights, Henry Winston, chairman of the CEUSA, movingly outlined the efforts of thousands of U.S. citizens in defense of Angela Davis.

BRIEFS

HONECKER VIEWS SOVIET FILM--The two final parts of the Soviet film epic "Liberation" are having their solemn first night in the GDR at the Kosmos Cinema in Berlin. Quests of honor at this event are First Secretary of the SED Central Committee Erich Honecker and USSR Ambassador Mikhail Yef. [Text] [East Berlin Voice of the GDR Domestic Service in German 1700 GMT 8 May 70 L1].

GDR-SOVIET FRIENDSHIP EXHIBIT--Berlin--"Linked by Friendship--for the Happiness of our Peoples" is the motto of the exhibition which opened in Berlin on 8 May on the 25th anniversary of the German-Soviet Friendship Society. Guests at the opening ceremony were Klaus Gysi, GDR minister of culture, M.T. Yefremo, USSR ambassador in the GDR, and a delegation of the Soviet Society for Friendship with the GDR. East Berlin ADN International Service in German 2027 GMT 8 May 70 1]

Wista

PP: vom - 133 - * -

Henry Winston, born April 11, 1911, in Birmingham, Alabama.

His father, Joseph Winston, died there on October 28, 1958. He and his wife had been separated for many years.

Winston had several sisters and a brother, namely, Dora Humphrey, Lillie Belle Black, Roberta Smith, and Otis D. Winston. Another sister, Anna Lee McConico, is dead.

Apparently none of Winston's family ever became affiliated with the CPUSA.

B. Marital Status

On May 2, 1941, Henry Winston and Edna Lerner, a white native-born New Yorker, were married in Brooklyn, New York.

Edna was born Apr 23, 1918. Her father was born in Russia, and her mother in Austria. Henry and Edna have two children, Larry Douglas, born February 14, 1947, and Judith Anne, born September 25, 1950, both in New York City.

Who's Thea National Pos Crush 1969

882 57696 103-4-134

Winston Henry

14-00

HENRY WINSTON

York City the

Henry Winston though

often referred

father

has

ctive communist

ullered

Soviet Union

he was hos

there for

though he is currently

Winston

Lincoln

from 1928 to about 1930.

Employment

While in

City

Borke

1930 to 1932 before going to

York C

then, he has given his full time to CPUSA.

3. Foreign Track!

In November, 1958, Winston aa-

by the CPUSA to attend the beain School, and

to the Thiet Union

red 1 this

ol until May,

it Union.

14-00000

Winston, accompanied by and two children, went to the Soviet Union in the Fall of 1961.

His wife and children returned to the United States in November 1961 but Winston remained abroad for two and a half years. During this period he underwent examination and treatment by Soviet doctors for his virtual blindness. On his return he stated he had been to East Germany twice and had attended Congresses of the Communist Parties in Hungary, Czechoslovakia and Bulgaria, in addition to having traveled extensively in the Soviet Union.

Winston has indicated that he has traveled to many socialist countries throughout the world, including Red China as well as Korea, Indonesia, and other places, where he had discussed the international communist movement and the problems connected therewith.

Winston with his wife, Fern, went to Santiago, Chile, in October, 1965, to attend the 13th Congress of the Chilean Communist Party as a delegate-observer.

In March, 1966, they traveled to the Soviet Union to attend the 23rd Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. They revisited that country in the Fall of 1967, as part of the official delegation of the CPUSA, to attend the 50th

1968 they Berlin

Winston together with Gus Hall

legation to the Kor 13 Conference of Communist and Parties in Moscow beinLine

hitou was incected into the

February 17 1942

and honorably discharged

with the rank of Technician, bitun Class,

service he acted as a "public relations re

wuch

and was

attached to the London Public Relations Office of the Negro

Interest Section

G2 Health

On January 12, 1960, authorities.

Penitentiary at Terre Haute,

where

United States)

Was

incarcerated, stated that he was no hoped to be losing

Later that so winston

This equilibrium.

neuropsychiatrist from

A4000 by

apo chat

he and intercranial pressure which could be

by a tetit

tumor or a brain hemorrhage resulting ingh of id prensati

As a consequence, Winston was operated en retre

for a benign tumor in the brain, A marked

tion of his gait was noted, and he was cons

Tube legally

blind.

On June 30, 1961, he was released from prison following

commutation of his sentence by President Kennedy.

in the

Isappe

1968, Fern Winston advised that doctors

non told Winston that he must return to that

country for hospitalization and treatment twice a year for

periods of four to six weeks. This treatment

injection

exercises, acdic

dicine, and diet,

the blood pressure and enable “Winston”

contrast between dark and light.

consisting of

posed to reduce

some

Winston has claimed on numerous occasions that, while

he was in prison, the Government doctors made a wrong diagnosis

of his ailment and, as a result, he is now blind. On November 7,

1960, while in prison, Winston brought suit against the U.S.

Government for one million dollars under the Federal Torts Claims

the failure of prison authorities to properly

condition and to treat his for brain tumor had

becoming tot

Blind. On January 18, 1965,

14-00000

5744

horiti

detract ron Hinston Subic

Hanston retorted

tabelis

York.

Fays

II. Communist Party Affiliations

saic

the

information

time

would

Strom So

datess

East 108: h

A: History

Winston joined the YCL in January, 1931, and became a member of the CPUSA in the Summer of 1931. In December, 1932, he left Kansas City, Missouri as a YCL delegate to the National Hunger March in Washington, D. C., and then proceeded to New York City, where he worked for The "Young Worker," official orpha of the YC.

In 1933, he was Chairman of the Harlem Youth Section of the Unemployed Councils and was later named Chairman of the Youth Section of the Unemployed Council for the New York City metropolitan area. From April through November, 1933, he was Section Organized the YC, Th Brooklyn.

From November, 1933, to May, 1935, in the Soviet Union where he attended the Lenin School. Upon his return to the United States he became Organizational Secretary of the YCL in Cleveland and was named to the Ohio District Committee of the YCL. In March, 1936 Winston was named YCL National Organizational Secretary, and in May, 1937 was elected YCL National Administrative Secretary.

Winston was active in the YCL as editor of the Young Communist Review, official magazine of the YCL and as Director of the YCL Training School held at Camp Beacon, New York, during 1937 and 1938. He was reelected YCL National Administrative Secretary in May, 1939, and held this office until his induction into the Army in February, 1942.

Winston became a member of the CPUSA National Committee in June 1940; was elected a member of the Communist Political Association National Committee while serving in the Armed Forces in 1944; and was renamed to the CPUSA National Committee in July, 1945.

From October, 1945, to July, 1946, he served as Secretary of the Party's National Negro Commission. He was named a member of the editorial Staff of "Political Affairs" in 1946. In July, 1946, he was elected a member of the Party's National Board and appointed CPUSA National Organizational Secretary. He held the latter position until his disappearance into the Party's underground apparatus in July, 1951.

to auth

CRUSA

nan

the 18th National Convention of the CPUSA in June, 1966, was elected CPUSA National Chairman

member

Current Activity

Winston is currently CPUSA National Chairman, the Secretariat the National Executive Board, and the Committee.

Congressional Testimony

Winston testified before the Senate Armed Services Committee on April 2, 1943, on behalf of the CPUSA in opposition to universal military training and the draft.

D. Indictments and Arrests

Winston was indicted on July 20, 1951, under conspiracy provisions of the Smith Act of 1940.

tried, convicted, sentenced to five imprisonment, and fined $10,000 but

14-00000

Court for commit

On March 1956,

is surrendered

result of which ce

ceived

three-

sentence for contempt of court

ined

prison until his sentence.

ted by

sident Kennedy

June 30

of health

Sci, the Department

altercation,

inst

Winston which

cuse of es indictment under

the Smith Act Win

on

r's indictment under the Smith Act was

29 1963.

III. Character

Physical Appearance

Winston is six feet tall. He is stockily built, weighing around 200 pounds. He has black hair, brown eyes, and pockmarked face. He dresses neatly, wears a suit and tie, and appears to be well groomed at all times.

B. Habits and Idiosyncrasies

Because of his near-total blindness, Winston has to be led or driven around, except when he is at home or at CPUSA headquarters.

Associates read to him, and in this way he is able to keep informed about national and world events and Party Affairs.

14-00000

nurse

Winston

gus fo

orded all

C. Effectiveness as

the

wher.

of the fact that Hall, when he became General Secretary, needed prominent Negro Party leader to give him support because of his own lack of following among Party Negroes, Since Winston is now an important figure in the national leadership, Hall

Hall reportedly would

necessarily treat Winston with difference.

the USSR for an indefinite period of time when he visits that country for a medical check-up, thereby, preventing Winston

14-00000

be consulted

on all matters.

To the office.

He made it obvious that he has

sought, and has approval

workers in the national headquarters, Winston is terror; to associates and coworkers, he is Arrogant and domineering.

his

Nevertheless, Winston is considered to be in effective and popular Party leader among the membership, white, as well as black. He has an engaging personality. And is always smiling or laughing. Because of his pleasant, cooperative demeanor, rough humor and wisecracking, and his lack of temper, he enjoys He seems to like everyone, and

in his relationship with people.

Friendly manner has ingratiated him with the talk and file.

In his rise to the top leadership, Winston was extremely careful to faithfully follow the Soviet and the prevailing CPUSA at all times and to be in tune with the thinking of his

14-00000

Superior

decisive

displayed any

initiative, but how

the

Part Time

avoided becoming angrily contentious in debate

discussion because he wanted to be on the

those who

of authority and leaders he worked

counted most Suter

well with people

of moment were at sia

officials, Ale never

ittees but became firm when issues

and he knew the desires of higher

with a person

authority

standing but went along as a good guy.

Winston stays clear of personal intrigue.

In the Party's Negro cause, which is perpetually divided and rife with unending rivalry and backbiting, he strives to play the role of the middleman or the pacifier.

As a speaker, Winston is of the rough-and-tumble type who is a good agitator. He makes an effort to assume a dignified stance on the platform and seldom resorts to exaggerated oratorical antics.

He gives every indication--in speech and in vocabulary--of having had minimal schooling. His extempore language is choppy, disorganized, colloquial, and full of mispronunciation of even simple words. He has virtually no writing skill and is not known to have authored any type of document during his long career in the Party. Speeches, reports, and articles issued under his name are the work of ghost writers.

Winston, who was reelected

14-00000

WINSTON DENOUNCES

PASS International

Service in English 1916 2 är 711

March

National Chairman

cec

h's policy:

the way

the US.

axati

in the

Party

the

past

emphasized

eetings over the radio and television ta

ted States had

can and must withdraw from Vietnam

by intervened

IONAL AFFAIRS

AMERICAS)

This is pure decoy when the administration talks of cutting military spending and of saving the lives of servicemen The communist believe that not a cent should be spent on the aggressive war waged thousands of miles away from the shores of our country.

Henry Winston condemned the campaign of political persecution conducted by the U.S. Authorities. I am quite sure, he emphasized, that the forthcoming trial of Angela Davis California is a political conspiracy. I met Angela Davis a few days ago. After my talk with her I became even more convinced of the political character of this trial. The case of Angela Davis has been framed up by the racialist and anti-communist forces of the State of California.

201-006897

14-00000*

The Washington DAILY NEWS points out.

adas

the Peace Corps

(THE AMERICAS)

ers 100 million dollars annually, does not work, and reco

1 better ways to use these funds

Official Washington has in fact acknowledged the failure

This is evidenced by the White Hou 's decision to merge

so-called corp of teacher

f such centralized volunteer service';

the invested dollar

which costs

that the

'Peace Corps' activity.

"Corps with VISTA

ion of the

U.S. press cast serious doubt

and not without reason.

effectiveness

the

ameless: ten-year activity of the Peace Corps'ac many in America convinced

no one except for ideological saboteurs needs thi

HENRY WINSTON DESCRIBES U.S. RACIST POLICIES

Moscow TASS International Service in English 0903 GMT 27 Feb 71

[t] New York Feb 27 TASS-Speaking

e Haven on Friday, National Chairman

organ

the law faculty of the Yale University

the Communist Party of the United.

Henry Winston has said that Nixon's policy, aimed at

Laos and other areas of Indo-China, is actually the racial

imperialism.

of the war in Cambe

policy of American,

"Henry Winston has emphasized that the policy of the present-day government of the United States becomes increasingly menacing. Henry Winston said this policy leads to intensification of racism and anticomunism as component parts of the programme, aimed at elimination of the resistance to the governments line'.

campaign

Current reprisals against civil right fighters are only the beginning of a

which was launched with the aim of breaking the resistance of the Negro people.

This campaign is now spearheaded against Angela Davis, a symbol of struggle against

racism and ticommunism. These reprisals, if they are hot duly rebuffed, will

tomorrow spread to the whole of the American people, blacks and whites. The struggle.

in defence of Angela Davis and other political prisoners is, therefore, the matter of

honour for all Americans, who cherish freedom and peace.

U.S. COMMUNIST PARTY ISSUES STATEMENT ON ANGELA DAVIS

Moscow TASS International Service 1 English 0810 GMT. 28 Feb 71 L

[Text] New York, Feb 28, TASS--The National Womens Commission of the Communist Party

of the USA issued the following statement for International Womens Day:

The vicious frameup persecution of Angela Davis by the Nixon-Agnew-Reagan axis is an

attack upon the rights of all who struggle for peace, democratic rights and freedom

from capitalist exploitation. In Addition Angela Davis shares the plight of all who

would escape the yoke of racist oppression.

201-006887

SECRET

1. REPRODUCTION

TION

THI

SECRET 051354Z JUN 70 CITE LAGOS 4871

5 Jun 097527

DIRECTOR INFO KADUNA LONDON LCPIPIT

INTEL

SUPDATA: ZRWAHOO FOR HQS COMMENT IF THERE PREVIOUS REPORTING

ON BUDAPEST MEETING: KRCASH/1

1 HYU MAY

RELAY TO LONDON WITHOUT FIELD COMMENT FOR

PASSAGE TO LIAISON IF ALL REFERENCES TO NIGERIA

REMOVED, USING BYLINE AFRICAN MARXIST WITH GOOD

CONTACTS IN INTERNATIONAL COMMUNIST CIRCLES.

INDEX: ULYANOVSKIY, FILE: OWARAQRP.

ED 6513542

SECRET

WINSTON, HENRY

201

14-00000

DDP EUR 8, SB 8, CA S

SECRET

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY

ANL

SECRET 351354Z JUN 70 CITE LAGOS 4071

5 Jun 097527

DIRECTOR INFO KADUNA LONDON LCPIPIT

INTEL

SUPDATA:

ZRWAHOO FOR HQS COMMENT IF THERE PREVIOUS REPORTING

ON BUDAPEST MEETING. KRCASH/1. HYU MAY

RELAY TO LONDON WITHOUT FIELD COMMENT FOR

PASSAGE TO LIAISON IF ALL REFERENCES TO NIGERIA

REMOVED, USING BYLINE "AFRICAN MARXIST WITH GOOD

CONTACTS IN INTERNATIONAL COMMUNIST CIRCLES.

INDEX: ULYANOVSKIY FILE: OWARAQRP

ES.

.FILED: 651354Z

SECRET

WINSTON, HENRY

201

14-00000

SECRET

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

INTELLIGENCE INFORMATION CABLE

DATE 5 JUNE 1970

097527

IN

PAGE 1 OF 3 PAGES

The following Intelligence Information, transmitted from CA Field Station, requires review within the Clandestine Service before be hased outside the Agency. Pending results of this review, a copy is being provided for distribution for BACKGROUND USE ONLY to SDO advance information.

COUNTRY: USSR/AFRICA

DOI: LATE APRIL 1970

SUBJECT: PLANS FOR WORLD COMMUNIST MEETING AND FOR MEETING OF AFRICAN COMMUNISTS

ACQ:

SOURCE: NIGERIA, LAGOS (4 JUNE 1970) FIELD NO: ANL-2514

A NIGERIAN MARXIST WHO FORMERLY HELD A RESPONSIBLE POSITION IN THE BANNED SOCIALIST WORKERS AND FARMERS PARTY AND IS STILL ACTIVE IN OTHER PRO-COMMUNIST ORGANIZATIONS. HIS REPORTING ON COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN NIGERIA IS USUALLY RELIABLE AND ACCURATE. HE OBTAINED THIS INFORMATION DURING CONVERSATIONS WITH BASSEY, FATOGUN AND GOODLUCK AFTER THEIR RETURN FROM THE SOVIET UNION.

CONSIDERATION IS BEING GIVEN TO HOLDING ANOTHER MEETING OF WORLD-WIDE COMMUNIST AND WORKERS PARTIES.

PREPARATORY MEETING FOR THIS MAY BE HELD IN BUDAPEST BEFORE

SECRET

PAGE 2 OF 3 PAGES

THE END OF 1973 AMONG SUBJECTS TO BE DISCUSSED AT THE PREPARATORY MEETING WOULD BE WHETHER OR NOT TO CONVENE A MEETING OF AFRICAN COMMUNIST AND IF SO HERE AND WHEN IT SHOULD BE HELD DURING A MEETING WITH THREE LEADING PRO-COMMUNIST NIGERIANS IN MOSCOW ON 30 APRIL 1970, POSTISLAVA ULYANOVSKIY, A DEPUTY CHIEF OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEPARTMENT OF THE CENTRAL COMMITTEE OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF THE SOVIET UNION (CC-CPSU) URGED THEM TO CONSIDER ATTENDING THE PREPARATORY CONFERENCE IN ORDER TO PARTICIPATE IN DISCUSSIONS OF THE ALL-AFRICA MEETING

(FIELD COMMENT: THE SAME SOURCE REPORTED IN TDCSDB-315/22646-70 ON OTHER ASPECTS OF THIS MEETING BETWEEN OFFICIALS OF THE CC-CPSU AND NIGERIAN TRADE UNION LEADERS W. O. GOOD LUCK AND S. U. BASSEY AND NIGERIAN AFRO-ASIAN PEOPLES SOLIDARITY OFFICIAL DAPO FATOGUN.)

THE IDEA OF AN ALL-AFRICA MEETING OF COMMUNISTS WAS INITIATED BY AFRICANS ATTENDING THE MEETINGS OF WORLD COMMUNIST LEADERS IN MOSCOW ON 21 AND 22 APRIL 1978. AMONG THE AFRICAN (SIC) COMMUNISTS ATTENDING THE MEETING WERE

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET

Hany

097527

TDCS

PAGE 3 OF 3 PAGES

CFNU) W TON OF THE UNITED STATES AND DELEGATES FROM SOUTH AFRICA MOZAMBIQUE, ANGOLA AND GUINEA-BISSAU.

3. FIELD DISSEM: STATE (ALSO SENT KADUNA LONDON)

REPORT CLASS SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM CONTROLLED DISSEM GP

SECRET

14-00000

DELEGATION TO CUBA, CPUSA: (left to right) Ted Basset, Sa Taylor, Henry Winston, Fern Winston, Ronald Stevenson, Jean Roqual

Blockade of Cuba hits U.S. consumers

By TONHOLEY

NEW YORK, Sept. 5 - Arcan gen the United States does not have chairman of the Communist Party, said soda

W-201

006887

sugar and steel because

Henry Winston, national

DAILY WORLD Saturday, September 6, 1969

Brazil junta gives in

RIO DE JANEIRO Sept 5

(UPI) The Brain govern- ment bowed today to Le mands of a band of very ve deter mined men who kidnapped US: Ambassador C. Burke Ebrick and threatened to execute tam

The Foreign Ministry an rouneed it would free 15 political prisoners as demanded. The an- councement came barely an hour and 20 minutes before expiration of an ultimatum that presumably would have meant death for the 61-year-old envoy.

The ambassador was seized by a band of four men on a Rio de Janeiro street Thursday and the kidnappers set a deadline of hours for their demands to be inet. They repeated the climatum this morning but moved up the deadline for acceptance of the demans 2:50 p.m. 1:50 p.m. EDT today.

The government announcement came at 12:30 p.m. 11:30 a.m. EDT it received hand written note from the ambassa dor to his wife saying that he was alive and well but asking the gov ernment to accede to what he called very, very determined" men.

There had bed to original doma-de-rel the unnamed cation of he, which de Daily

rate was pub Page!

command, the Foreign Minister and high national authorities. This way the responsibility ill be completely upon the head of the kidnappers for the safety Ambassador D. Burke Elbrick. the statement said

The kidnappers, were believe guerrilla group made up mostly c Brazilian university students. Th initials stand for Movimient Revolucionaria and the 8 refer to the date of the death of Ernest Che Guevara, the Cuban revolu tiary killed in Bolivia Octa ISPY

Swiss protest Westmoreland planned visit

GENEVA General Westmore land, US. Chief of Staff, will make an official four-day visit to Switzerland beginning Sept. 11. Westmoreland formerly com- mander-in-chief of US. arme:" forces in South Vietnam. will familiarize himself with the state of combat readiness of the Swi- armed forces, and All also in spect a number of Swas militar training centers.

Voix Cariere" Workers Voices organ of the Swiss Part pressive public in Switzerland. of Labor reports that the gr protested against Westmorelan he bears respons Would L. Spoq

14-00000

affects that land but hurts the ordinary American by boosting monopolies on a number of items, ding the steel and nickel that goes into his car and refrigerator Winston pointed out: Cuba has 50 percent of the world's nickel deposits. he noted

Winston gave his views to a press conference at Communist Party Headquarters Fere a few days after his return from Cuba. He led a Communist Party delegation that visited every province in Cuba in August.

See editorial Page 7

The blockade of Cuba affects economic and political relations between US. and Latin America, he went on

US: consumers bit

It's not only a matter of sugar, but also steel, in terms of the U.S. Steel monopoly, and trusthe said.

"It's not only sugar prices - Cuba is the world's second largest sugar producer but even the price of lobsters...

Instead of receiving Cuban lobsters consumers get lobsters from racist fascist and apart he regime of South Africa." Winston said. This trade between US and South Africa actually ups a regime which opposes everying decent in the world."

He emphasized that reversal of the icy of the Nixon Admin- strain towords Cuba is the only effective answer to achieving new relationships towards Latin America as a whole.

Specific exchange affected

He all he was very happy to Cuba by the Con Ce Party Cut

There was the crimes that S. Impers as the source of malaria has inflicted the country and fever, Cuba has con:bated malar by using the Sa-vaccine var- which the Soralist govermentity developed and produced by of Cuba has undertaken 15erase the Soviet Union. the effect of these crimes." He said:

The economic blockade of Cuba not only affects normalade sugar. steel. lobsters be scientific exchange. for example Winston pointed out.

Now Cuba's coricera today is the battle for industrial- ization of the country. Winston said. stressing that the fight to produce 10-million tons of sugar is an important one in Cuba and will help it to meet international mechanization of agriculture.

Doctors are prevented frogocommitments and improve the ing to Cuba, exchanging informas tion from helping to train tech- nicians and other doctors, act from using textbooks, he added.

Life span rode

Despite all this, some most inspiring developments in science are taking place in Cuba today. he said. Despite this lies of scientific exchange. the life span Cuba is showing how a country can develop under socialism. he concluded: This. "in turn, is having a very dramatic effect on the rest of Latin America. This is why normalizing relations with Cuba is a prerequisite for develop: ing normal relations with Latin America."

transfer to government names will ment Country detained w indicated: in a public stat

The decision was taken ate: a meeting of the high milita

There's no sex on the Daily World. Cc at your news stand.

Black Gls anti-war action reported in South Vietnam

HANOI LNS) — More than 140 blick Gls staged an anti-war protest July 30 in the port base of Qui Nton, in Kinh Hea province. according to a report by the Liberation Press Agency of South Viet- ham.

The report as transmitted by Prensa Latina, said that the men marched from one end of the base to the other and also marched on the local airport. They reportedly shouted slogans demanding peace, the end of the U.S. aggression in Vietnam and the immediate withdrawal of the US troops.

the airport, the black Gls battled with cops who tried to stop the demonstration.

Episcopalians vote $200,000 'reparations'

By RICHARD GREENLEAF

NEW YORK. Sept. 5 Church leaders in the US are still strive ing to evade the principles set forth in the Black Manifesto: even though some churches are making. payments on the reparations-de- count which the Manifesto holds they owe black Americans.

Such is the situation following this week's action by a convention of the Episcopal Church, which after two days of heated debate in South Bend. Ind. allocated $200,000 to the Black Economic Development Conference, the group which promulgated the Manifesto and is beasing to edict pancals on the t on it says the churches owe the Negro people for centuries of Lucius Walker Jr.. executive ..oppression.

The resolution adopted by the Episcopalians included a passage rejecting the ideology of the Manifesto:

The Rev George M. Murray, Bishop of Alabama said in the course of the debate: I cannot vote for a group whose only record, is this manifesto, avio feat. Marxist document."

But the resolution did recog- nize the Black