```markdown
1714-00000

[104-10188-10003 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

John M. Whitten
CWH/3
5613
28 June 1963
MEXICO CITY
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: WH 8
INFO: CI, CI/OPS, FI, S/C
TO: LIFEAT
REF MEXI 5162 (IN 68160)

ROUTINE

CITE DIR 50937

REF MISTAKENLY SLUGGED TYPIC. TO WHAT EXTENT HAVE TAPES BEEN TRANSCRIBED?
IF NOT TRANSCRIBED, CAN MEXI DO IT? IF TRANSCRIBED, ERASE TAPES. IF NOT AND
MEXI CANNOT HANDLE, POUCH TO DIR. ADVISE.

END OF MESSAGE

WH COMMENT: *Mexid queried Hqs as to its desire have pouched tapes LIFEAT ESLARD-1
coverage for period resided Hotel Maria Angelos.

W Hood
C/WHD
YOURY M. WHOONEN
C/WH/3
RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.

---

ORIG: R. JUDKINS
UNIT: WH/3/MEXICO
5940
DATE: 22 APRIL 1963

FROM: DIRECTOR
TO: LIFEAT
CONF: 8
INFO: CI, CI/OPS, CI/RA, FI, TSD-5, S/C

ROUTING

CITE DIR 35066

REF: MEXI 4201 (IN 19807)

1. HQS APPROVES LOAN OF ONE STERILE SPARE B-10 DIAL PULSE RECORDER
TO DURKIN.
2. HQS URGES CLOSE SUPPORT TREASURY/NARCOTICS INVESTIGATIONS. MEXI
MAY PROVIDE DURKIN WITH OCCASIONAL LIFEAT COVERAGE PROVIDED NO LIFEAT TAKE
GIVEN TO MEXICANS.
END OF MESSAGE

WH COMMENT: William J. Durkin, Treasury rep assigned to Mexico investigating
narcotics traffic, approached Station re dial recorder for phone
tap on Mexican target.

TSD BRUCE LA ROSE (BY PHONE)
CI/OPS FRANK HUGHES
CI/RA/TC

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.

---

14-00000
1 April 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR: WH/Personnel

SUBJECT: Recruitment of a Retired CIA or Military
Officer for Contract Status in Mexico.

1. Mexico City needs a replacement in September or
October 1963 to work on a technical operation. The Station
does not want a staff employee, but a Contract Agent.

2. The Contract Agent would need the following
requirements:

a. Must be retired, and move permanently
to Mexico under cover of a retired U. S. citizen,
with the appropriate guaranteed income required
under Mexican law. ($320 for husband and wife per annum)

b. Must have technical training which would
enable him to work on a technical operation,
possibly involving the care and upkeep of
recorders, etc.

c. Must have a working knowledge of Spanish,
or the ability to acquire this fluency prior to
arrival in Mexico.

d. It will be necessary for the employee to
work with people, make early and late meetings,
and to spend a good deal of time driving around
town. Therefore, the candidate must drive a car
and be physically fit to work long hours.

3. It is requested that information on any candidates
be furnished WH/3/MEXICO or C/WH/3 for consideration.

John M. Whitten
C/WH/3

DISTRIBUTION:
Orig. and 1 - SUPPORT

---

14-00000

DISPATCH

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City
TO: Chief, WH Division
INFO: LIFEAT Security
SUBJECT:

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

REF: HMMA 20305, 3 December 1962

1. Reference problem was discussed by KURIOT with David N. WILSTED,
during the latter's TDY at Headquarters in early December 1962.

2. KURIOT recommends the following solution and has furnished the
attached material for delivery to WILSTED for his use:

3. The terminal identification system consists of two fluids.
a. Vial "A" is collodion in which is mixed a small amount of phenolphthalein
and is intended to be used by the person who originally connects the wires.
Generously daubed on the end of the screw, this solution dries almost
immediately in a water repellant, invisible coating.

b. The second vial "B" contains household ammonia. If the dauber
in this bottle is drawn down the row of terminals in the connection box,
the tip of any screw which was previously treated with the phenolphthalein
will immediately turn a dark red color and then will vanish after a minute.
The ammonia can be reapplied and this reaction will repeat itself a couple
of times before more phenolphthalein has to be reapplied.

END OF DISPATCH

Attachments
1 box with two vials of liquid (U/S/C)

Distribution:
Cal - COS, Mexico City w/att (USC)

ROUTING INITIAL
Chrono
R/AC3/Mr. McBee
RID/MIS
RID/PS
RID/FI

DATE TYPED: 7 January 1963
DATE DISPATCHED:
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: HM-11200
HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER: 50-6-32/3

COORDINATING
OFFICE SYMBOL DATE OFFICER'S NAME
TSD/AOB Mr. McBee (draft)
C/WHD

RELEASING
OFFICE SYMBOL DATE OFFICER'S NAME
J. C. King

WH/3/Mexico

---

DISPATCH

TO: Chief, Task Force W Attn: Willard N. AUMAN
INFO: Chief, WH
FROM: Chief, KUDESK
SUBJECT: GYROSE/ Jose Ordoqui
Chief of Station, Mexico City

ACTION REQUIRED: REFERENCES

1. Forwarded herewith are the following items pertaining to Subject:
a. LIFEAT references;
b. Salient reports from other agent sources;
c. References to close contacts of Subject;
d. Exemplars of various types of Mexican police agent reporting;
e. Roughed-out drafts of police agent reporting. These have been
viewed and tentatively approved by COS, Mexico. Copies have been
retained at the Station.

2. Station Mexico is submitting separately its proposals on the
technical and operational aspects of this operation.

Willard C. Curtis

Distribution:
2 - TFW w/att
1 - C/WH w/o att
1 - Chief, KUDESK w/o att
2 - Files

DATE TYPED: 26 Dec. 1962
DATE DISPATCHED: 28 Dec. 1962
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: HMMA-20425

---

DISPATCH

TO: Chief, KURIOT
INFO: Chief, WH Division
FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City
SUBJECT: LIFEAT Security

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
Action: See below.

1. The purpose of this dispatch is to request Headquarters' assistance
in a problem involving clandestine markings for terminals in a telephone cable
cross box.

2. Specifically, it is desired to have the capability of recognizing which
cable terminals in a box are being used for telephone tapping without having any
markings apparent to unauthorized persons. This system is needed for use in
the event that taps must be disconnected quickly under the threat of a possible
security problem.

3. The tap connections are made by LIFEAT telephone company per-
sonnel and the terminals could be marked by them at the time the tap is made.
The connections sometimes have to be removed by another person who is not
familiar with the connections.

4. It is felt that a quick drying, transparent glue or lacquer that would
fluoresce brightly under UV illumination would be appropriate. A material that
could be removed later by wiping or chipping it away would be desirable but this
characteristic is not vital.

5. The system must be usable in open shade, although some additional
shade might be had by partially closing the doors of the box, and the light source
must be portable and if possible have the appearance of an ordinary flashlight.
The light source can be brought within two inches of the terminals.

(Continued)

DATE TYPED: 3 Dec. 1962
DATE DISPATCHED:
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: HMMA-20305
HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER: 50-6-32/3

---

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH HMMA-20305

6. This system is needed as soon as possible for use during December
1962 and January 1963. Therefore, Headquarters early assistance or recom-
mendation would be greatly appreciated.

Distribution:
C/KURIOT
1 - C/WHD
3 - Files

Willard C. Curtis

---

DISPATCH

TO: Chief, WH Division
FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City
SUBJECT: LIFEAT Progress Report for October 1962

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
Ref: A. HMMA-20156
B. MEXI 2384

1. The following report is submitted in accordance with CSFHB-F
52-6-1, section V, paragraph 2 (d) (1).

A. EXPLOITATION OF LEADS

(1) LIFEAT/Soviet During the reporting period, LIFEAT coverage
of Svyatoslav F. KUZNETSOV provided an important and valuable check con-
firming the reporting of a number of KUBARK controlled double agents targeted
against this Soviet officer. Also, coverage of the Soviet Bulletin Office, al-
though not considered vital, does complete Station coverage of the Soviet
target and does provide daily information on the activities and contacts of the
Bulletin Office personnel.

(2) LIFEAT/Polish LIFEAT continued to provide vital Information
concerning the BEKNAVE/BECHICK operation with coverage of both individuals
and their daily activities.

(3) LIFEAT/Yugoslav Besides the usual coverage of day-to-day
activities of the official installation, LIFEAT leads have indicated the possi-
bility of a successful recruitment of a Mexican employee of that installation.
LIFEAT information will become even more valuable for continuing assess-
ment of the potential agent and forming of a plan for approach to the Mexican
in question.

(4) LIFEAT/Communist Party Coverage in this area gave Station
its first information concerning the second arrest of LINLUCK, as well as
providing some information on important persons in the Mexican Communist
movement.

(Continued)

DATE TYPED: 28 Nov. 1962
DATE DISPATCHED:
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: HMMA-20261
HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER: 50-6-32/3

---

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH HMMA 20261

(5) LIFEAT/Exile LIFEAT provides continuing coverage of the
daily activities and contacts of Juan Jose AREVALO Bermejo. Although most
of the leads gathered will depend on future exploitation, one contact with an
ODYOKE official was noted by LIFEAT (see reference b).

(6) LIFEAT/Cuban Of late, much of the emphasis of the LIFEAT
operation has been directed toward support of Station operations in this area.
Coverage included monitoring of the activities of AMSTET-1 for the interested
Case Officer. This information provided daily leads for the Case Officer in
his contacts with AMSTET-1. LIFEAT also covered three lines in support
of the AMSTRUT operation. Of this support the interested Case Officer has
noted LIFEAT provided very valuable coverage of the important AMSTRUT
operation during October. The coverage gave valuable operational leads
and resolved what would otherwise have been areas of uncertainty or
groundless suspicion. This allowed the case officers to move with more
certainty in developing the operation than would otherwise have been prudently
possible. It is noted that LIFEAT's continuing coverage is proving to be most
helpful.

(7) LIFEAT/American Communists LIFEAT continued to provide
information of interest to ODENVY. Travel and contacts of the ACGM are
particularly worthwhile.

(8) LIFEAT/Miscellaneous LIFEAT continued its coverage of
former Station asset LIVESTOCK-2. This was in keeping with Station's
policy of making periodic checks of the activities of former, potentially
dangerous agents.

It should be noted that It is the Station's opinion that LIFEAT's
excellent overall service, plus its ability to provide unilateral coverage of
targets of opportunity on short notice (sometimes on as little as two hours
notice), make LIFEAT a dependable daily contributor to the fulfilling of the
Station's mission.

B. PROCESSING OF TAKE
No change from previous report.

C. LIAISON
During the month of October the two playback recorders used by
the ODENVY processor broke down. These were repaired by the LIFEAT
technician, David M. WILSTED. ODENVY continued to process take from
the LIFEAT/American Communists in Mexico lines.

D. SECURITY
There have been no known adverse security incidents effecting the
LIFEAT operation during the reporting period. LIFEAT meeting sites con-
tinue to be changed periodically. The fourteen regular and six alternate
sites used for daily contact between the Station Case Officer and WILSTED
and Wayne C. DRABAND are considered adequate. Numerous meeting sites
are used for contacts between WILSTED/DRABAND and the basehouse keepers.

E. TECHNICAL
Audio and dial tape recorders ordered by the Station in support of the
LIFEAT operation began to arrive at the end of October. These were placed
in immediate service. It is noted that the automatic tape stop on the new
model Revere audio recorder has thus far proven to be of no use to the operation
and on occasion has caused some minor problems. It is believed that these
problems are temporary and will be eliminated when WILSTED has time to
by-pass this cut off switch.

The new Annex VI (see reference A) was placed in full operation
on 23 October and presently provides coverage of four target lines.

F. COVERAGE

During the month of October 1962, LIFEAT covered a total of 25
target lines. Coverage by target was as follows:

1. Soviet Bulletin Office
2. Svyatoslav F. KUZNETSOV
3. Aleksandr G. SIDOROV
4. and 5. Polish Embassy (two lines)
5. 7, 8, 9, and 10. Yugoslav Embassy (five lines)
6. 12, and 13 BEKNAVE/BECHICK operation
7. Juan Jose AREVALO Bermejo
8. Peter WATKINS
9. AMSTET-1
10. and 18. AMSTRUT operation
11. Psychiatrist attending AMSTRUT-2
12. Carlos ILLESCAS
13. Suspected PCM safehouse
14. LIVESTOCK-2
15. Albert (Margaret) MALTZ
16. Charles SMOLIKOFF (aka SMALL)
17. Noah SEBORER

G. PERSONNEL

LIEMBRACE-8 was reintroduced to LIFEAT in order that he may brush
up on its daily operation. LIEMBRACE-8 will temporarily replace David M.
WILSTED as LIFEAT technician during the latter's home leave December 1962
and January 1963.

Steps were initiated to amend the clearance of LIEMPTY-19 for
work as a part time LIFEAT processor/translator.

1. During the reporting period, LIFEAT operation provided a total
of 62 reels of raw take from ACGM lines to local ODENVY for their processing.
In addition, a number of memos were prepared by the Station for passing to
local ODACID and ODENVY based wholly or in part on LIFEAT provided
material.

Willard C. CURTIS

Distribution:
3- C/WHD
2 - Files

---

DISPATCH

TO: Chief, WH Division
FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City
SUBJECT: LIFEAT Progress Report for September 1962

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
Ref: HMMA-19843

1. The following report is submitted in accordance with CSFHB-F
52-6-1, Section V, Paragraph 2 (u) (1).

A. EXPLOITATION OF LEADS

(1) LIFEAT/Soviet In this reporting period LIFEAT provided vital
Information and live-monitoring support during the installation phase of a
successful Station technical operation targeted against Aleksandr G. SIDOROV,
Soviet Military Attache in Mexico.

(2) LIFEAT/Cuban This coverage provided valuable operational
support during the period leading up to the recruitment of AMSTRUT-2 giving
timely advance information of AMSTRUT-2's arrival in Mexico, as well as
his day to day activities and contacts. Following AMSTRUT-2's recruitment,
LIFEAT gave an excellent account of AMSTRUT-2's activities for those periods
he was not under the control of his case officers. This was invaluable proof
of his full cooperation with KUBARK and added a safety factor for the case
officers making the recruitment and initial handling which would not have been
otherwise available.

(3) LIFEAT/Polish and LIFEAT Yugoslav These coverages con-
tinue to provide excellent information of the daily activities of the Satellite
officials assigned to Mexico. The LIFEAT support of the BEKNAVE/BECHICK
operation continues as noted in reference.

(4) LIFEAT/Exile LIFEAT coverage of Juan Jose AREVALO Ber-
mejo provides information and operational leads which, though valuable now,
would be invaluable if ODYOKE's policy toward AREVALO becomes sufficiently
defined to fully exploit all the information provided by LIFEAT.

(Continued)

DATE TYPED: 8 Nov. 1962
DATE DISPATCHED:
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: HMMA 20156
HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER: 50-6-32/3

---

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH HMMA-20156

(5) LIFEAT/American Communists LIFEAT continues to provide
information of interest to ODENVY (who initially requested this coverage and
processes this take.) Local ODENVY has noted recently that the information
concerning travel of American leftists to Mexico and their contacts while here
are particularly worthwhile.

(6) LIFEAT/Miscellaneous LIFEAT coverage was reinstituted on
LIVESTOCK-2 in Station periodic check on the activities of this former agent.

B. PROCESSING OF TAKE
No change from previous report (see reference).

C. LIAISON
No change from previous report (see reference).

D. SECURITY
There have been no known adverse security incidents effecting the
LIFEAT operation during the reporting period. The "coyote" incident noted
in reference, paragraph 1.D. is now settled and should pose no further dif-
ficulty to this operation.

E. TECHNICAL
No change from previous report (see reference).

F. COVERAGE
During the month of September 1962, LIFEAT covered a total of 16
target lines. Coverage by target was as follows:

1. Soviet Bulletin Office
2. Svyatoslav F. KUZNETSOV
3. Aleksandr G. SIDOROV
4. BECHICK's place of employment.
5. Individual considered for cut out in BEKNAVE/BECHICK
operation
6. and 7. Polish Embassy (two lines)
7. 9, and 10. Yugoslav Embassy (three lines)
8. Juan Jose AREVALO Bermejo
9. Peter WATKINS
10. LIVESTOCK-2
11. Albert MALTZ
12. Charles SMOLIKOFF (aka SMALL)
13. AMSTRUT Operation

G. PERSONNEL

LIFEUD-24 and LIFEUD-26 obtained a basehouse on 29 September which
will take the place of the old Annex VI (closed when LIFEUD-5 and LIFEUD-11
were terminated due to their pending divorce). It has been decided to retain
the same annex designation, i. e., Annex VI, since the area of coverage is the
same as that provided by the old basehouse.

---

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH HMMA-20156

2. During the month of September 1962, LIFEAT operation provided
a total of 54 reels of raw take from the ACGM lines to the local ODENVY
office for their processing. In addition, a number of memos were prepared
by the Station for passing to local ODACID and ODENVY based wholly or in
part on LIFEAT provided material.

Willard C. CURTIS

Distribution:
WHD
2 - Files

---

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: DEBRIEFING OF DAVID M. WILSTED (ps)
6 June 1960

1. On 1 June 1960 Mr. John G. Heyn and Mr. John Kennedy of WHD,
Mr. Robert Brown of CI/OPS, Mr. Robert Bryant of FI/OPS and Mr. Charles
Bray of FI/D met with David M. WILSTED (ps).

2. WILSTED emphasized that the whole telephone system in Mexico
City is undergoing a reformation. The company Telefonos de Mexico, S.A.,
has sub-contracted this work of cleaning up and reorganizing the phone
system to the independent firm, Intel. They are cleaning up unused and
old lines, putting in new and spare lines, redefining exchange areas,
laying underground cables, etc. Eventually we should be better off be-
cause there should be more surplus lines. The renovation work has
hampered much of the LIFEAT work, principally because many of the lines
now are underground and we cannot get access to them before they enter
the central. This is particularly true with respect to the Czech Em-
bassy, to whose telephone lines we cannot obtain access from the vantage
point we now occupy.

3. WILSTED said that we try to keep track of the activities of
"Intel" but since they seem to attack "Colonias" at random, we have no
prior warning of their presence in a certain area.

4. In the recent past, Mexico has been using houses for listing
posts for security reasons. We have more control over the access of
phone company inspectors or repairman to houses. However, under new
regulations, all new apartment buildings must have telephone lines in-
stalled in the building by the phone company during the construction
phase. This means that the lines and their destination are concealed.
WILSTED proposed that this will mean we can again use apartments since
we can siphon off a line destined for use by another tenant in such a
way that the phone company cannot trace its destination without tearing
the building apart and we can then install a separate line to the build-
ing and hook up the subscriber to this line which, if checked, will
belong to a legitimate subscriber.

5. One system which has been used effectively is to take one-half
of two separate pairs which have one faulty line each. These two half
pairs then form one good pair which we can use.

6. WILSTED explained that it cost about 3000 pesos to get a
regular telephone. This entails the purchase of a telephone company
bond, which later can be sold.

---

7. Personnel involved in the tapping of the lines are:
Rene - who has access to the centrals. He contacts the fol-
lowing men:
Two brothers
Jose - does exchange connections.

8. The take from each basehouse is collected early in the morning
before office hours by RAFANELLI. He only enters one basehouse which is
occupied by an elderly couple. All other contacts are in automobiles
made at different spots each day of the week. RAFANELLI then takes the
material to a meeting between him, WILSTED and SECHEN where RAFANELLI
turns the material over to SECHEN and they all discuss the problems and
plans for the day.

9. According to WILSTED there is no live monitoring done by any
of the basehouse keepers.

10. There follows a list of the basehouses and the lines covered
at each base:
a) Calero 39 - formerly covered American commies, now
no lines. Being held for future use.
b) Juanacatlan 179 - Cuban residence
Russian Commercial
E. T. (Nicaraguan)
c) Atlixco 47 - 2 Polish
Seborer
Tropete
Bekiar
d) Tenancingo - Cuban military office
Cuban Ambassador's office
Campos (travel agency)
1 spare
e) Aristoteles 80 JAR
Ejercito Nacional 540 (name of person un-
known)
f) Suderman & Horacio - facilities for three lines. Formerly
processed the Czech lines. Now nothing
but being hold open.
g) Cuautla 131 - 3 Soviet Embassy (tapped in the Central)
1 Soviet propaganda office (tap in box)

---

DISPATCH

TO: Chief, Task Force W Chief, WH Division
FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City
SUBJECT: DEROSE/AMSTRUT - Transmittal of LIFEAT Coverage

ACTION REQUIRED: Attention Martin O. HIEBERT

Attached in accordance with conversations with Martin O. HIEBERT, are
LIFEAT transcriptions in the AMSTRUT-2 case for 11-26 and 28-30 September
and 1 October 1962.

Willard C. CURTIS

Attachment:
52 pages

Distribution:
TFW w/o att.
WHD w/o att.
JMNAVE w/att.

DATE TYPED: 9 October 1962
DATE DISPATCHED: 15 October 1962
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: HMMA-19980

---

DISPATCH

TO: Chief, EE COB, Monterrey
INFO: Chief, WH Division
FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City
SUBJECT: BEDOX/LIFEAT

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
DIR-38331, 26 September 1962

Attached herewith find a copy of MNTY 0600 requested by Head-
quarters in reference.

Willard C. Curtis

Distribution:
WH w/att; 1 - COB, Mnty w/c att
EE w/att
Files

DATE TYPED: 26 Sept. 1962
DATE DISPATCHED: 28 Sept. 1962
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: HMMA-19882

---

INCOMING MESSAGE

JOSE LUNA ORTIN, YOUTH
OF VISIT WAS CONTACT ARR.
DID A DOCTOR, BLOND
NOLAN 21 AUST 1 DAY ONLY.
NITY 0600
CONTACTED
TURIOSE.
AY SARBILA STATE COMMITTEE PCM.

HAMA-19882
07/15422
50-6-32/3

---

DISPATCH

TO: Chief, WH Division
FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City
SUBJECT: LIFEAT Progress Report for August 1962

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
Ref: A) HMMA 19641
B) HMMA 19129

1. The following report is submitted in accordance with CSHB-F 52-6-1,
Section V, paragraph 2 (d) (1).

A. Exploitation of Leads

(1) LIFEAT/SOVIET With the departure of Vladimir G.
NOVIKOV during the month of August 1962, it was decided that LIFEAT should
pick up coverage of his replacement Svyatoslav F. KUZNETSOV. The contin-
ued coverage of Aleksandr G. SIDOROV, which includes extensive periods of
live-monitoring and special processing of the take, is considered essential to
those Station-assets involved in the attempt to place the technical surveillance
noted in last month's report (see reference A). Coverage of the Soviet Bulletin
Office continues to provide interesting personality data on Soviet officials
assigned to Mexico.

(2) LIFEAT/POLISH LIFEAT coverage in support of the
BEKNAVE/BECHICK operation continues to be vital to that operation. Addi-
tional coverage for this operation has been undertaken, leads from which will
probably determine future direction of the operation as well as aid KUBARK in
controlling the operation.

(3) LIFEAT/YUGOSLAV In this area LIFEAT provided the infor-
mation that a cousin of a recently assigned KUBARK deep cover agent, Victor
W. OBOLD (ps) will be travelling to Mexico in the near future. This cousin is
a long-time Communist Party official and a chance meeting with him could
have destroyed OBOLD's carefully prepared cover. Due to LIFEAT advanced
warning, proper security safeguards have been arranged. LIFEAT has also
provided travel information on Yugoslav officials from the United States which
was of great interest to ODENVY.

(Continued)

DATE TYPED: 20 Sept. 1962
DATE DISPATCHED:
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: HMMA 19843

---

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH HMMA-19843

(4) LIFEAT/EXILE LIFEAT coverage in this area has been
most rewarding in providing leads to the contacts of Juan Jose Arevalo Bermejo,
former Guatemalan President. Spanish Republican Exiles were covered for
approximately one-half month in August, at which time it was decided that the
coverage no longer provided sufficient leads and information to justify con-
tinued LIFEAT effort.

(5) LIFEAT/American Communist Group in Mexico (ACGN)
This coverage is at the request of the local office of ODENVY and the processing
of take in this area is done by that office. One of the most interesting items
provided from this coverage was the fact that the American Communists Albert
MALTZ and Margaret Larkin MALTZ had separated and that Albert MALTZ
would probably reside in the U.S. with Margaret remaining in Mexico. Con-
cerning the LIFEAT coverage of the ACGM, the local office of ODENVY wrote
on 23 August 1962: "This office feels that the coverage mentioned is quite
valuable and many useful leads are obtained from this coverage, particularly
with regard to travel in and out of Mexico of American Communists who are
in contact with individuals on whom coverage is maintained".

B. Processing of Take
No change from that noted in reference A.

C. Liaison
No change from that noted in reference A.

D. Security
During the early part of August 1962 a group of "coyotes" was uncovered
In the telephone company in Mexico City and a number of arrests were made.
This group had organized a unit including linemen, centralmen, installation
crew, warehousemen, and workers in the office responsible for providing ser-
vice to new clients. It was the purpose of the "coyote" group to provide service,
for a price, to those individuals whose requests for installations had been turned
down by the telephone company due to limited availability of cables and contacts.
(Note: The company generally keeps a certain number of "spare pairs" in each
cable for its own use in providing special service, company phones, and for re-
routing during repairs to other cables. It was these spare pairs and contacts
which the "coyotes" used to provide illegal phone service.) This telephone com-
pany within the telephone company would also collect monthly fees from their
"subscribers". When the story came out, the telephone company had special
police stationed in each central and spot checks made of linemen and crews to
prevent recurrence. It was therefore necessary for the LIFEAT linemen to
refrain from any clandestine activity for a period of almost four weeks so as
not to be accidentally picked up as a member of the "coyote" group. LIFEUD-1
has reported that the situation is now back to normal with the special police
details and special checkups terminated. No compromise of the LIFEAT oper-
ation resulted from the above incident.

E. Technical
In addition to re-supplying LIFEAT with audio recorders (as reported in
reference A), the Station has ordered ten new dial tape recorders for the project.
Funds for this purpose were included in the latest Project Renewal Request
(forwarded by reference B).

F. Coverage
During the month of August 1962. LIFEAT covered a total of 15 target

---

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH HMMA 19843

lines. The coverage by target was as follows:

1. Soviet Bulletin Office
2. Svyatoslav F. KUZNETSOV
3. Aleksandr G. SIDOROV
4. BECHICK's place of employment (and place of
contact with BEKNAVE)
5. and 6. Polish Embassy (two lines)
6. , 8, and 9. Yugoslav Embassy (three lines)
7. Juan Jose AREVALO Bermejo
8. Peter WATKINS
9. Juan Simeon VIDARTE Franco Romero
10. Dr. Eugenio ARAUZ
11. Albert MALTZ
12. Charles SMOLIKOFF (aka SMALL)

G. Personnel

The basehouse operators for LIFEAT Annex VI, LIFEUD-5 and LIFEUD-11,
after a long period of family disagreements, have mutually decided on a
divorce. Both are being terminated by KUBARK since their usefulness as
basehouse keepers for the project will end with their divorce. The agents have
agreed to the termination and it will be accomplished on a friendly basis.
(Agent Service Records will be forwarded). Therefore, it has been necessary
to close Annex VI and terminate coverage of the lines provided by that base-
house. LIFEUD-24 and LIFEUD-26 have been recruited to replace the ter-
minated couple and are presently looking for a suitable basehouse which could
fully replace the old Annex VI. (Note: POA was granted for LIFEUD-24 on 28
June 1962 and OA was requested. Also, OA was requested for LIFEUD-26
on 30 August 1962.)

During the absence of Woodrow B. GABBOT (ps), the processor of the
Polish language portions of the Polish Embassy take, a replacement in the person
of contact agent BETUMBLE was provided by Headquarters. He performed well
with no known security hazard to himself or LIFEAT. BETUMBLE departed
Mexico City on 17 September 1962. Until GABBOT's return Polish portions of
this take are being translated by the Station Satellite Case Officer.

1. A. During the month of August 1962, the LIFEAT operation provided
a total of 45 reels of raw take from the ACGM lines to the local ODENVY office
for their processing. In addition, a number of memos were prepared by the
Station for passing to local ODACID and ODENVY based in whole or in part on
LIFEAT provided material.

B. The following reports were based in whole or in part on positive
intelligence which is provided as a by-product of the LIFEAT operation:

HMM-6605
HMM-6626
HMM-6663
HMM-6667
HMM-6670

Willard C. CURTIS

Distribution:
C/WHD
Files

---

DISPATCH

TO: Chief, WH Division
INFO: Chief, SR Division
FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City
SUBJECT: Operational/Transmittal of LIFEAT Report

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
Ref: HMMA-19741, 4 September 1962
Action: Per Paragraph Two.

1. Transmitted herewith in attachment is a LIFEAT report of
10 September 1962, of a second telephone call from Moscow to
Vladilan Ivanovich SAMOKHIN, Head of the Soviet Information Bulletin
Office in Mexico