```markdown
14-00000

104-10176-10010 [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

SECRET

ROLANDO MASFERRER, JR.

A-16-88-46

BUSINESS:

Subject is the Vice President of Sales at the following Corporation:

A168762 - Military Armament Corporation, Powder Springs, Georgia

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED / CONFIDENTIAL / SECRET / TOP SECRET

INITIAL REVIEW FORM

FOIA/Request No. F77-260

Document Description:

Dated:

Document Located By: DCD

OFFICE DESIGNATION

Document referred to DDO for review by:

RECOMMEND:

Release in full-text

Release in sanitized form

Deny in toto

Defer decision to

Coordination with prior to above denial/release

EXEMPTIONS ARE BEING CLAIMED TO PROTECT THE FOLLOWING:

FOIA PRIVACY

Classification (b)(1) (k)(1)

Information from a foreign liaison service (b)(3) (j)(1)(b)(c)

Information pertaining to a foreign liaison relationship (b)(3) (j)(1)(b)(c)

Information which would/could identify the source (b)(3) (j)(1)(b)

Information pertaining to a source (b)(3) (j)(1)(b)

Information pertaining to intelligence methods (b)(3) (j)(1)(b)

Location of CIA overseas installation (b)(3) (j)(1)(b)

Location of unacknowledged domestic installation (b)(3) (j)(1)(b)

Name of CIA employee (b)(3) (j)(1)(e)

File number (b)(2) (j)(1)(b)

Pseudonym (b)(3) (j)(1)(b)

Cryptonym (b)(3) (j)(1)(b)

Internal organizational data (b)(3) (j)(1)(e)

Name of an FBI agent (b)(7) (j)(1)(b)

FBI file number (b)(2) (j)(1)(b)

Privacy of other individual (b)(6) (j)(1)(f)

Does not pertain to request N/A "Exempted portions are not relevant to the requester" (j)(1)(c)

Other, specify: (b)(1)

*For further guidance regarding exemptions, please see DDA-75-5943, 16 December 1975 (Privacy Act) and HN-70-21, 14 February 1975 (FOIA).

COMMENTS AND/OR SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS:

SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICER OFFICE

ACD

May 77

UNCLASSIFIED / CONFIDENTIAL / SECRET / TOP SECRET

Document No.

(To be completed by ISS/PICG)

E 2 IMPDET CL BY:

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

Office Memorandum UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

DATE

TO: Chief, Test D

FROM: Chas.

SUBJECT:

1. De

are an int

pus'. It is rolled

an at the hospital.

2. Fyrically, the aprterance of having been down on his luck for

Tamara f, and bandenili live

Macbr. i opero

de

In Cleveland on abou, and has seen et the

is a val

desier-in-, Anne

S spitalice that date.

inted et laracaibo, Venezia on 17 Jul 52.

mara, ani

The doll is the st of hid in the

د:

a by

and a hour interview.

pay the t

.

Pe

in sister-in-law. Ce

1. & reporter for Diari

poople with an anti-

come ally of ice in ever.

s the

it they would have employed in, bend the movement was

Combist Party of Manuals.

30

contact

the s

Nestor of the follige dose lani, and of the

tommer

dhe was

ist, and xp an interest in usin: kim i rat me fate Caba,

This was to eat

1860, no noiva man

en anti-

5. Coe task a la contract on a

ved in J

ging Spain. In

intrelated to

Book Anto the

૫:

to lay in

to

tree, at a one

r.

intered

of the

dee

..

HOW

CONEC

jaar vin

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000

0. Cap

agata, why

et out of

--

:.

.

The the volum

Ionaal In the

ex

7.

rasp th

y and

& the who th

inter and

same building Onlan

serious as,

litia out of each on

thum cashed for.

and many walle

Antent,

Harry hd

and to th

in the

in the

parently is:

he side of the renters c.

pretext of taking that to have

Ruse Mackage en af started actively resting

ang sffort to check them out. Among them vere

ed to be : win the service of Castro.

gt de ves in a far gets the Masferrer task force's barracks at

Tit year,

seant police

Es vell.

m:

e

and a former rember of the Castre

conama. Lere vere many other Outs and ris

Primed to have entered the US tegally at Key West

for Jumping the far cry. His nicke erived fris musical talents

he alto clatt have try exparfence, but he proved to adept at military

acter bed in comand of the tack forre. Ine former Castro

was in an early 20's, out in all, husk till and chained

have been teaser. In the use of the evening at te har, one of the

tree - Maci,

tres poleman - there on the

ses of

Saba, they should break away from the basferrer group

and try to with some other. Gee overhead the rears reported to the

task forces, though the opt not identify which of the three tai rade

Tasker

sh, the

As a

ta

Ines policeman vas tartups thrown out of the tal force,

was also strongly suspecting the author of the dissident

sesal of this lion as not allowed to take my farms with him hea

the troup

training on o y. Cep, novever, was owed to

.2 pistol. Botines Gee's weapon, the only other firearms at

initially re

12-gauge and a .23 1. Hacker was unable to kep up with the rigatous

physielading schedule of the groun, und so absented if that part of

Hacker nippel the habit of rising early in the mining and going out

sunt fa to priate rifle.

olge

attitude or the training, plus topics thurrouxsi hat

as the possibly author of the Maidresark in the acute bit 35

grew bowed at the grous seadus at No-Name, laga, also (gains)

In atentia. Laga proposetion with tasker, but declined s

Aviatio. Herrer visfied Beans in the compway of drag, an x-Mil

Who doma. fight with his a 4 in automatic and a

Maria by enfermer, upon his leperture the nas dys

the bana ary d

ini memper prated so an

Masker oss eiro da morning evad kuat Suating

Ateak the men in the cap heart tota.

Ho lived in

city to his

not then re

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000

2.

•

inpool

..

an

ter

0.1

en to Listy.

*e then table.

sate er, and the to

cho, de woor

the return to us mor

_

Fishop called

21 one wh

bishing impresy as being

Het group f

join tin

after contasted and

At the conclusion of me call

be an exy-off.

:

Taberent to c

2.

10. Other embers

expatut s

1 report a dis-

up apps up, and plained that

code that all information

de

af up include

.

Abs to elipte total q

go

ife.inf

space sterrer.

there ves also a

02

ட

and best o

a Ma

In the

blond mustache,

stained to be a Command & symptied to ta

ld to

with toyou for using

b. the vicinity of the Bubures. Hanny Procuruh sight, and he

veral hos batal.

hospital, Fancy moved in via the

pole along vid Sarta and Thompson.

FO of the Communions in on

in 163.

10. breakup of the

elease

they of the in

to have best

or fused regar

RN a carly For 1361, then

Silverer une asked by the polite to dose up the hooks.

gag veru told to go siis several v

Do Fork to one

While See A

Waterly with s

hoy

Pr. Anse in

outside

the car.

e of the

Nesident or ne

the house sta

He turned to Decad

able to 1 of those

H

passion. All the

sure a ra

ta

}

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000

N

tion.

Anoth

ion

Nore they

S

or the payoif. sto

1 ch a

instead

C

or

that

told. They wear plup by

S.. 15 and 19th Av

und sees to their delivery on

in the king to .

the

se

Gee says she pros or nakes,

13. Jizzrez-bankal 1 (his phone contine

arly the in)

Inter

(Cee says that he ate the folliving

Cometime early as

Leksa

man race do upon hearing that Dea

iring to hisly in it into one

Tudo Pmilig. Prazo of 1959 Trilins Ave., St. Po arrange 12 interview for

30

eat.

a was intumel to in as the the enti

and made con tue and ravis in

none or jane and

Cea and Davis

said

s

es unlimited cash would be their disa for the teak. Ce

1ers would be reedel, ingrowers. de was no inter

wether or tea in Davis, bad my channel for pruning the arms.

move they con is the 400 men and obtain the deers and equip-

Casinova said he had already arranged asportation for thĉe via

allie,

hy den site Cices.

Ridgid tourists, and they would be given 30 vigorous

Ingas-spending Verein army slices. Cesativa

was for an ack by the 00 on Caracas, sim-

in the city and at other speed ponos.

ning un attach one

ed in the

in the presti

explain that the tent

ady with an Any revolt

tempt ip in early

armt of seal any officer involved in the Corcova plot, and according to

Prato, necessitated an inflite Caley. Fryto cold

loveveres Perindez

*still red in the plan, and that is would to cured on.

who lives with Fal

Homer mer of the hotel

Mi. dose to that. With one dollers

for expenses, he would go to Be and buy any kind sms needed, and be

would guaranty part of the world. Another with the be

in etwas 11th Ave., . telo pumber

A-8764.

We s

en Sne shoukutily a vpon described as teach), AT

Adams ner naastle, 2003.

pose CA proved evils thich to ad

pitain in my quantities Restrj.

་བ་ཁ་

with t

ར

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000

Fores

JANES

"

7:309

--- Page 8 ---

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED / CONFIDENTIAL / SECRET / TOP SECRET

INITIAL REVIEW FORM

FOIA/Request No. F77-260

Dated:

Document Description:

Document Located By: DCD

OFFICE DESIGNATION

Document referred to DDO for review by:

RECOMMEND:

Release in full-text

Release in sanitized form

Deny in toto

Defer decision to

Coordination with prior to above denial/release

EXEMPTIONS ARE BEING CLAIMED TO PROTECT THE FOLLOWING:

FOIA PRIVACY

Classification (b)(1) (k)(1)

Information from a foreign liaison service (b)(3) (j)(1)(b)(c)

Information pertaining to a foreign liaison relationship (b)(3) (j)(1)(b)(c)

Information which would/could identify the source (b)(3) (j)(1)(b)

Information pertaining to a source (b)(3) (j)(1)(b)

Information pertaining to intelligence methods (b)(3) (j)(1)(b)

Location of CIA overseas installation (b)(3) (j)(1)(b)

Location of unacknowledged domestic installation (b)(3) (j)(1)(b)

Name of CIA employee (b)(3) (j)(1)(e)

File number (b)(2) (j)(1)(b)

Pseudonym (b)(3) (j)(1)(b)

Cryptonym (b)(3) (j)(1)(b)

Internal organizational data (b)(3) (j)(1)(e)

Name of an FBI agent (b)(7) (j)(1)(b)

FBI file number (b)(2) (j)(1)(b)

Privacy of other individual (b)(6) (j)(1)(f)

Does not pertain to request N/A "Exempted portions are not relevant to the requester" (j)(1)(c)

Information from another Government agency (b)(1)

Other, specify:

*For further guidance regarding exemptions, please see DDA-75-5943, 16 December 1975 (Privacy Act) and HN-70-21, 14 February 1975 (FOIA).

COMMENTS AND/OR SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS:

SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICER OFFICE

ACD

May 77

UNCLASSIFIED / CONFIDENTIAL / SECRET / TOP SECRET

Document No.

(To be completed by ISS/PICG)

E 2 IMPDET CL BY:

3906

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000

COUNTRY

53.507

CATE OF

NO

PLACE &

SOURCE

CENCE AGENCY

tion affect peat before thing of a

THIS IS NEV

REPORT NO

co-(3) 31,678

DATE DISTR.

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

Elmonds Suary Riv

4766 alten Rad

Ditch

natal, A 17 510 ye

Fomination of t comesesion of Harm or for three

Pines for being anti-Contro

12 with the 2001 beige prisoners.

, sorred a print at Isle

03 ble on

So stulted the rears of

to speak his fat

Do

Will

to be

University in Kavana

pro-3. (of a series

of

this sorte.

epresentative assigned to

hellons in rectar, Isle of Fine Frison,

24 Den 2:

:.

Rob John Con

20-00, 6'2", 150 lbs. brom ages and

Lai, divorce home frent 1517 helse, Cleveland, Chio.

vas caught in the Copacabana H, Mimu, Havana, in Denber 1950

for being counterrevolution. Healey belonged to a secret

nebro tortent. vos usd to have helped in an rising

ing a 15-year

in the Bocubray uiteins in exly 1961.

go tona, He is in urgent need of medical care, has a stomach elser,

and is losing weight Pally, lost 70 lbs since he he been in

I can him before I l. He is uching but in and bouts.

und

ހ

.

3. Bustace Parent, 30, G10", 157 lbs, dark bro

air; married; hole : 3015 Dochiell Blvd, Deltimore, Pi.

counterrevolutionar

I 153 naught on north coast of the be

arrives in 1961 ting in a yacht with seven or eight other

seanding 13 to 20-year prison term. loob

fine. I saw him and talked to him

weight but other

before I loft.

3

page; Notes

ng in the ; life mother

and water skiing ring

21,5", 173, dirty bicht hair, rom

His father is an Amerison

was an afpplere

in the Scha.

Ang

abi-Casas. 12 not a very

as boy

es aught in the Phir del Mountains, in the summer of 1979

with

gat keeps to Walks with a Ming seed by an airplane merident,

C

--- Page 10 ---

14-00000

Later

$1.

to t

to not ta

By they

2'

the

!,

. Getty

ts, blond hair

Ale who

dut;

now. I was expected in the sum < 1000

with a

Cage 13 aveling by

to Pueric Ha, se

to res

Jote

, to pick up passengers, was makan

Ne the.

ot actually working for

De was cht two or

is now Lo Cayo Ins no long

cat3.

Date (Cuban parents),

home address: 101

fe's a tots.

thing by in

dos of the country.

G-2 b. plene had id,

then they skatt

plan were Ledly shit up.

arcraft.

u mater

want with (as) un ie, then

un caine bud to work against

Cuban Mex

-yo.

11, 101, Mack hair

e apena

57 2-121

ed in 171 in a boat on the

Dubov.in ver.

tional activision.

know too well be was

ta fet dealth.

37-10, 5107,277, back hairy b

T

202 Marilund Ave, Dothan, Ala, 6

t

in fair health, lost a lot of

* no bat eratorrevodabonary and

reift ca tę wokh yet the Chima nell and belt.

1. na, Olathe the. Bland hafy, blue

dejt

Act.

story too

with sig,

* Always to his de

legally a CIA runt when

--- Page 11 ---

14-00000

יל

1.7 7

her Sie in da art or 5: Jens Hotel in

and

that

with fu

13: T

be the one

1. Use Imann

allonte ma

the wall been ain

the aginer, I ballers,

also serving a 15-year

B

27 brows, black befir;

Falls, North Carteltua.

with by partionid above.

His health in Tetr. He is also serving a 15-

20-17, 510", 100 ms, brom hair and eyes; m

he is very cufet, soft-spoken, mil-educated, keeps

ical engineer who was caught

ich Karanding is is also serving a long prison sorm.

__

_

1. Decuando no 5'0", 150 lbs, Cirty blond hair,

Des; pate; here address urino. He is very healthy,

quiet, plaged chest all the site,

with the US group. He was one

che sera saths in the jocht with the US citizens on the north coast

Sheth Dunbrunt. Tato soming a 15- to 20-year prison term for

amenaliinates.

36-57, 5107, 100 lbs, feir health, Southern recent,

french the rest of the US citizat. I belde.c he

as also enght in the same yacht with Dubret. He is also serving a

long price

By safest

=. Mr Aller, 30-32, 5'8", 150 155, dark brown hair,

completely crazy, of irrational

heim, tried to escape one of

troch cens He had several

Szary fit. It has been in the hospital several times. The prisoners

the pragmatisse Leen trying to help him, but in vain. He

yently area repehiatric helps allegedly caught in the

and acted in a counterrevolutionary. He

ats eg in Late 1900 or carly 100, is serving a 15-year teru.

Sea na muni all day talking to himself.

0.

12-15, 107, 100 th, brom eyes and hair,

Pars). orean ateran. He wife

(Dasy) and two are residing in Mand. to fa als herith,

I was arrested in Havina in 1901 for being a

(), 2015b1ght brom hats, blun

an,

Stores, I chool duration. How di

allegedly working for Rolando

penser before cotito Cuba,

they with

BELED worked in a low fuel revort

Usitions that know

out thonë tipike

sun nom,

5:9/5

--- Page 12 ---

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED / CONFIDENTIAL / SECRET / TOP SECRET

INITIAL REVIEW FORM

FOIA/Request No. F77-260

Dated:

Document Description:

Document Located By: DCD

OFFICE DESIGNATION

Document referred to DDO for review by:

RECOMMEND:

Release in full-text

Release in sanitized form

Deny in toto

Defer decision to

Coordination with prior to above denial/release

EXEMPTIONS ARE BEING CLAIMED TO PROTECT THE FOLLOWING:

FOIA PRIVACY

Classification (b)(1) (k)(1)

Information from a foreign liaison service (b)(3) (j)(1)(b)(c)

Information pertaining to a foreign liaison relationship (b)(3) (j)(1)(b)(c)

Information which would/could identify the source (b)(3) (j)(1)(b)

Information pertaining to a source (b)(3) (j)(1)(b)

Information pertaining to intelligence methods (b)(3) (j)(1)(b)

Location of CIA overseas installation (b)(3) (j)(1)(b)

Location of unacknowledged domestic installation (b)(3) (j)(1)(b)

Name of CIA employee (b)(3) (j)(1)(e)

File number (b)(2) (j)(1)(b)

Pseudonym (b)(3) (j)(1)(b)

Cryptonym (b)(3) (j)(1)(b)

Internal organizational data (b)(3) (j)(1)(e)

Name of an FBI agent (b)(7) (j)(1)(b)

FBI file number (b)(2) (j)(1)(b)

Privacy of other individual (b)(6) (j)(1)(f)

Does not pertain to request N/A "Exempted portions are not relevant to the requester" (j)(1)(c)

Information from another Government agency (b)(1)

Other, specify:

*For further guidance regarding exemptions, please see DDA-75-5943, 16 December 1975 (Privacy Act) and HN-70-21, 14 February 1975 (FOIA).

COMMENTS AND/OR SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS:

SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICER OFFICE

ACD

May 77

UNCLASSIFIED / CONFIDENTIAL / SECRET / TOP SECRET

Document No.

(To be completed by ISS/PICG)

E 2 IMPDET CL BY:

F346

1-77

3956

--- Page 13 ---

14-00000

1997

tomassing of the, Tide

* A

3.

/0

UNEVALUATED

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

NO. PACES

REFERENCES(

3,245,00

2

min 5770

With lan

Bestrow

A-12-356-761

RATION

som kan fal, A 12 656 761, who arrived in the US on 16 Jap 62 as a political

Semua ta a bha e oueron and was employed as a clerk by the

mber 1912.

A sensive assigned to the office

The majority of the 7 sayles in de Boubor by were beside

of the

buyere

I

the Comforter, during the

el corsary

venen of very piation enteret

wing are these when I consider to

the ins al polinfa mi cær, The

underable e order at the 0-2 win the Isle of

the entry to

tivities and emberlement of publi:

lished by and termed the rest of the cyli

yoons

browns into the bay. As far as I

Med Miler who was one of the most notorious members

, who signified livin

G, J. Car

print why was in

and his son are in

dro Valley!

17 and

naveen in it for

300 gen vor

A

uberalen partyrdo

Godtah terny vio la prens t

hala)

A deputat by inter

to bandy Mowe» of hy pain in Marble

:..

wolved with rim of

plit.

5-0---1-1--1-1-A-L

--- Page 14 ---

14-00000

C

A-L

Partly Can de

in the rly of my

This tail

Took

valinn

-2nformed con

seming

' cats.

* : the

