14-00000

104-10177-10121

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designations should be used in the "TO" column. Under each comment a line should be drawn across sheet and each comment numbered to correspond with the number in the "TO" column. Each officer should initial (check mark insufficient) before further routing. This Routing and Record Sheet should be returned to Registry.

FROM: FI/ANALYSIS

HCSA - 825 DATE

TO ROOM NO DATE REC'D FWD'D OFFICER'S INITIALS COMMENTS
1. WH Rozycki 15 Feb 1954 COPY DETACHED - logged
2. Br. Hillegly 15 Feb 1954
3. Holindu 15 Feb 1954
4. Quarle 15 Feb 1954
5. Eye Newton 15 Feb 1954
6. EB 15 Feb 1954
7. DKG Copy detached
8. Admin/L 16 Feb 1954
9. Cwit
10. RI/FI 17 Feb 1954
11. S5-
12.
13.
14.
15.

FORM NO. 51-10 1 NOV 53 PREVIOUS EDITIONS MAY BE USED

SECRET.

201-088764 ABSTRACT DATE 10 FEB 1954
INDEX 201-088764
UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL (40)

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

(SPECIFY AIR OR SEA POUCH) DISPATCH NO. HCSA-825

TO: Chief, WH DATE: 4 February 1954

FROM: Chief of Mission, Santiago

SUBJECT: GENERAL - KUGOWN Operational

SPECIFIC - Termination of Paul D. LANGEVIN

REF: SAGO 903 dated 10 October 1953

1. Attached are a) statement of termination signed by subject and b) agent's service record. Submission of these items has been delayed pending receipt of Field Instruction 236-1. Since this instruction has not been received we are submitting the enclosures to close the record on this case.

2. Paul D. LANGEVIN may be used for recruiting tasks before his permanent departure from Chile in April 1954. His security is not questioned and he has expressed a willingness to perform such tasks.

3. He also requests arrangements for the payment of income tax on his earnings during 1953. This matter will be handled by cable in view of time element.

4. The following explains the timing of LANGEVIN's termination: he had been advised that he would be terminated one month after all advances had been liquidated. This would have been 30 September 1953. This date was also chosen since it was expected that COMENIUS would take over FURIOSO "C" at about that time. COMENIUS did take over the project early in October. However, LANGEVIN did no work during the month of September for which he would be entitled to payment, although he presumably was available for duty. The last payment of $357.44 for the period 1 through 31 August 1953 was in addition to the liquidation of his advances although it did not cover a full month from the date of such liquidation which must have occurred sometime in August. LANGEVIN accepted this as the last payment coming to him so there did not seem to be any point in forcing another $500 on him for a period during which he did no work.

JCC/F

FORM NO 51-28 A 2 February 1951
MAR. 1949 CLASSIFICATION
James G. Collett
201-088764
1 COPY: 450

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

1. AGENT CRYPTONYM: Paul D. Langevin (FULMINATOR-1)
PSEUDONYM: SURIOSO "C"
(BHOVEL)

2. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION:

3. AGENT RECRUITED BY Jerome C. Dunbar DATE about August 1950
(Contract signed 25 January 1952)

4. CAPACITY IN WHICH AGENT SERVED: Contract agent

5. RATE OF PAY: $500 per month

6. OTHER COMMITMENTS: See contract dated 25 January 1952

7. AGENT DISMISSED BY James G. Collett DATE 31 August 1953

8. REASON FOR DISMISSAL: Loan to subject liquidated. No further need for him since FTCSO "C" taken over by Martin J. COKENIUS.

9. SECURITY RISKS: Agent knows various present and past staff officers. Had some headquarters training. Loyalty unquestioned.

10. IS THE AGENT RECOMMENDED FOR REUSE: Only in special circumstances for minor tasks such as cutout work or recruiting.

11. MANNER OF DISMISSAL: Agent advised at least sixty days in advance that his services would be terminated as soon as financial obligation to KUBARK liquidated.

12. LETTER OF TERMINATION SIGNED

Att# HCSA 825

201-088764

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000

1 October 1953

1. The undersigned hereby acknowledges receipt of US$357.44 payed to his bank account during September 1953 and agrees that with this payment all financial obligations to him under his contract dated 25 June 1952 have been liquidated.

2. The undersigned further acknowledges that information of a security nature received by reason of his association with the organization shall never be revealed to unauthorized persons under any circumstances.

ATT #2
TO HCSA 825

201-088764

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000

DATE: 4 FEB 54

TO: DIRECTOR
SANTIAGO

FROM:

ACTION: WH 4
INFO: FI, FI/OPS, FI/STC, PP 2, FI/RI 2

PRECEDENCE: ROUTINE
CITE: SSAGO

RE: DIR 36856 (OUT 68009)

SAGO 005 (IN 15054). TO DIR 2136Z 4 FEB 54

PSYCH

1. LANGEVIN IN SAGO, DEPARTING WITH FAMILY FOR NEW YORK VIA EUROPE ON 15 APRIL 54, TENTATIVELY PLANS TO RESIDE IN LOS ANGELES.

2. LANGEVIN CURRENTLY ENGAGED IN RECRUITING TASK AS EXPLAINED IN HOSA 826 DATED 4 FEBRUARY. WE PREFER THIS TASK NOT BE INTERRUPTED FOR TWO MONTHS. FURTHERMORE THIS TASK MIGHT ALLOW HIM FOR USE ELSEWHERE.

END OF MESSAGE

CS COPY
SECRET

ABSTRACT INDEX DATE 17 FEB 1954
4 FEBRUARY 1954. Copy No.

201-088764

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE: 3 FEBRUARY 1954

TO: DIRECTOR, CIA

FROM: SR. REP. SANTIAGO

THRU: VE/BR.I

CONF: WH 4
INFO: FI, FI/OPS, FI/STC/FI/RI 2

PRECEDENCE: ROUTINE
CITE: DIR 5856 (OUT 68009)

To: SSAGO 2050Z 3 FEB 54

1. LANGEVIN BEING COMPLETED TEMPORARY OPERATIONAL USE SPECIAL PROJECT OUTSIDE YOUR AREA.

2. MAKE EVERY EFFORT DETERMINE HIS WHEREABOUTS. INFORM HQS.

END OF MESSAGE

COORDINATING OFFICER: RATFORD WHERBERT
C/WE/ER.1

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER:

SECRET

ABSTRACT INDEX DATE 3 FEB 1954

201-088764

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

Copy No.

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000

FORM NO NOV 1951 35-85

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

TO: DIRECTOR, WH
FROM: SR REP SANTIAGO 5465

ACTION:
INFORMATION: FI/OPS, FI/STC, FIRI 2

CITE: SSAGO

REF: DIR 23280 (OUT 92507)

LANGEVIN TERMINATED 31 AUGUST 53. DISPATCH EXPLAINING CIRCUMSTANCE FOLLOWS.

END OF MESSAGE

SECURITY INFORMATION

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

COPY NO.

201-088764

ROUTING
ROUTINE

0400Z 17 OCT 53

SECURITY INFORMATION

--- Page 8 ---

14-00000

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designations should be used in the "TO" column. Under each comment a line should be drawn across sheet and each comment numbered to correspond with the number in the "TO" column. Each officer should initial (check mark insufficient) before further routing. This Routing and Record Sheet should be returned to Registry.

TO ROOM NO. DATE REC'D FWD'D OFFICER'S INITIALS COMMENTS
1. MWC MAR 1950 CIO checked.
2. Dad Mar.
3. Miss Corporal. 14 March 1950
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10. Bilmis
11. Rilps.
12.
13. RI/Fi/SP
14.
15.

FORM NO. 51-10 APR 1949 SECRET

201-33432

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE
BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION

PART I

Instruction: 1. Write clearly.
2. Answer all questions completely.
If question does not apply, write "not applicable"
3. Attach bank pages if additional space is required.

1. Full Name: David Atlee Phillips
First Middle Last

2. Name in native script:

3. Name at birth (if different from 1.): (not applicable)

4. Aliases, nicknames, legal changes (State briefly time, reason and place of use.): In the year 1942 the last name was dropped, for stage purposes - other actor in same show with same name in N.Y.

5. a. Date of birth: Oct. 31, 1922 b. Place of birth: Fort Worth, Texas

6. Present citizenship, race if appropriate: U.S., White

7. Nationality at birth and any subsequent nationalities (if different from 6.): (not applicable)

8. Present residence (Owner, tenant, sub-tenant.): Los Castanos 333, Viña del Mar, Chile, Tenant

9. Permanent address (if different from 8.): Fort Worth, Texas

10. Present occupation (full title, salary etc.): Publisher and editor of The South Pacific Mail., No salary

11. Naturalization of subject or of close relatives in the United States. (Give date and name in which certificate granted.)

12. Relatives, friends, correspondents in United States. (Explain relationship): Vera Klessun, friend, 60 E. 42 St. New York

201-88764
201-33432

--- Page 10 ---

14-00000

13. Father - full name, occupation, present residence, year and place of birth, nationality at birth and subsequent nationalities. Edwin Atlee Phillips, deceased, Last residence in Fort Worth, Texas.

14. Mother - same information as 13. Mary Louise Young Phillips, executive, deceased, born in Temple Texas about 1892. Citizen, no other nationalities: Last residence in Fort Worth, Texas.

15. Wife (or husband) - full name, maiden name, date and place of birth, date and place of marriage, nationality at birth and any subsequent nationalities, present residence, divorce, annulment. (Give data for all previous marriages.) Helen Phillips, Helen Florence Haasch, born March 25, 1919 in U.S.A., married June 5, 1949 in Fort Worth, Texas, U.S. citizen. Present address: Los Castanos 333, Viña del Mar, Chile. Previously married to Lt. Com. Jolley, divorced 1945. Subject was previously married to Joan Doorandt, Bloomington, Ill. and divorced in September 1943.

16. Children - full names, sex, year and place of birth, nationality at birth and any subsequent nationalities, present residence. Maria Louise Phillips, female, born August 9, 1949 in Santiago, Chile. Chilean citizen at birth but registration at American Consulate in Chile will give her dual citizenship. Los Castanos 333, Viña del Mar, Chile.

17. Brothers and sisters - Same information as 16. Edwin Young Phillips, male, born about 1917 in Fort Worth, North Texas, U.S. citizen domiciled at Neil P. Anderson Bldg., Fort Worth, Texas. James Young Phillips, male, born about 1918, Fort Worth, U.S. citizen. James Cotillos, male born about 1920 in Fort Worth, Texas. US citizen. address 714 Neil P. Anderson Bldg. Fort Worth.

201-33432

--- Page 11 ---

14-00000

18. Relatives (service of any government) - names and positions held. (not on payroll)

19. List all official identity papers held with dates, numbers, place of issue and duration of validity. Carnet of Identity for Foreigners, No. 3013/27 issued in Chile. Valid indefinitely. Other papers - drivers license, birth certificate, army discharge, etc. but they are not with me at the time this questionnaire is being filled out.

20. Religion - degree practiced, membership in religious orders - Protestant (Episcopalian). moderate practice. No religious orders.

21. Present and past political affiliations - Support Democratic Party in principle but have no special interests or affiliations.

22. Travel outside country of present residence - country, dates, purpose, people and firms visited. In 1942 and 1945 traveled through Africa, Italy, Yugoslavia, Germany, France, etc. but always because of military service. Also traveled extensively in Mexico in 1947 as a tourist.

23. Education - school, location, course, degree, dates - William and Mary, Williamsburg, Vz., Drama and English, no degree, in the year 1940. Texas Christian University, Fort Worth, Texas, English major, no degree in the year 1941.

24. Languages and dialects (Indicate proficiency - good)

Language Danish Speak Read Understand
Language French Speak Read Understand Good
Language German Speak Poor Read Understand

201-33432

--- Page 12 ---

14-00000

25. Military service - date, country, unit, rank, duty, where served services performed, decorations, when discharged, why. Give details if ever prisoner of war. Served 6 in c. 1943 with the 4th Bomb Group Staff Sergeant, armorer-gunner on B-24- Medal, Purple Heart. Discharged October 31, 1945 on points. Prisoner of War, Captured by German troops in May 29, 1944 in Yugoslavia after parachuting from crashing plane. Taken to Stalag Inft. I in Poland Later moved to Stammlager Inft. XIII near Nuremberg, Germany. Liberated by American forces about middle of April 1945. Returned to Camp Lucky Strike in France.

26. Present and past membership in organizations (professional, social, political, etc.) Actor's Equity, Author's Guild, short membership in Kappa Sigma fraternity at William and Mary, Williamsburg, Va.

27. Special skills, abilities, hobbies (radio, photography, etc.) Athletics, typing, photography, painting writing.

28. Financial status - earnings, bank deposits, securities, property - Present business is new, a newspaper and there is no way to estimate what the profits will be. Bank account in Fort Worth National Bank, Fort Worth, Texas. Income of about $100 per month from real estate in Texas, mostly from royal interest in oil producing land.

29. Employment history - type of work, salary, dates, employers and addresses, reasons for leaving. Include employment by any government. actor, average salary $100 per week. (Employers include Camp Shows Inc., and Interstate Players ework and Austin Texas respectively.) From 1941 through 1943. Various stock companies in New York and New England. (Most work done as a free lance writer, however.)

201-33432

--- Page 13 ---

14-00000

30. Has subject done any writing? Give details including titles of books, articles, publishers, dates. Yes, newspaper work generally and playwriting specifically. No plays published but one - Teh Show Job produced. also written under contract for radio.

31. List persons living at same address, close associates, (individuals or groups,) correspondents at home and abroad. No other persons living at same address. Close associates include the British and American diplomatic personnel in Santiago and Valparaiso, Chile. Also newspaper man and various friends, many representatives of foreign concerns in this country.

32. List five character references. Guy Price, vice president fort worth National bank, Fort Worth
Grison Blake, american Consul General in Valparaiso, Chile. Venant Alessandron, lawyer, 60 E. 42 st. New York, NY. Will A. Moncrief, President, Chamber of Commerce, Fort Worth, David Trammel, lawyer, Fort Worth National Bank Bldg. Fort Worth

201-33432

--- Page 14 ---

14-00000

33. Court record - court, date, arrests, charges, punishments, sentences, acquittals, denazification, etc.

34. Description (Use American standards of measurement, if possible.)
Age 30
Apparent age 27
Height 6 Feet
Eyes Blue
Face shape Regular
Posture Good
Weight 195
Teeth Even, good condition
Hair Blond
Scars under left eye, very small
Complexion Fair
Sex Male.
General appearance Nondescript
Prominent features None
Build Stocky
Other identifying features None

35. Other miscellaneous biographical data and comments. Came to Chile in 1943 to attend school. publishing and English language paper in Valparaiso, Chile. (At the moment this questionnaire is filled out, the subject, is away from his home and office, without papers and documents. Consequently all answers may not be absolutely correct so far as dates are concerned.)

201-33432

--- Page 15 ---

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TO: DIRECTOR
FROM: HAVANA

ACTION: C/MM 2
INFO: DCI, D/DCI, DD/P, COP, C/CI/CI/Bacs/c

RE: DIR 41815 (OUT 90126)

RYBAT

Re: GUSTAVO DE LOS REYES & in connection with contacts with MICHAEL M. CHOADEN

ROUTINE

CITE: HAVA 2650

FOR RI USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

US GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1580-63030

201-88764

--- Page 16 ---

14-00000

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designations should be used in the "TO" column. Under each comment a line should be drawn across sheet and each comment numbered to correspond with the number in the "TO" column. Each officer should initial (check mark insufficient) before further routing. This Routing and Record Sheet should be returned to Registry.

TO ROOM NO DATE REC'D FWD'D OFFICER'S INITIALS COMMENTS
1. Claypool
2. Smuset
3. Pierce
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.

FORM NO. 51-10 FEB 1950 SECRET

201-33432

--- Page 17 ---

14-00000

VIA: AIR

SECURITY INFORMATION

DISPATCH NO. TCS-A-1741

TO: Chief, WHD DATE: 28 November 1951

FROM: Chief of Station, Santiago

SUBJECT: GENERAL - Operational Matters
SPECIFIC - ZACACTUS, Chile

REF: Sago-360

1. Pursuant to the verbal statements of Dennis K. COPELAND at the Lima Conference of certain Station Chiefs, pertaining to ZACACTUS Operations in Chile, the following suggestions are advanced for Headquarters' consideration:

a) Cover for Chile, Official:

The Air Attache, Col. William ROSS, talked at length with General ACKERMAN, Assistant A-2, AFGS, while attending the Panama Service Attache Conference, on the question of providing a replacement for the Air Officer who had originally been scheduled for Santiago Air Attache Office to handle ZACACTUS. ROSS, who is a very intelligent, capable officer, with excellent intelligence experience, told ACKERMAN that he would appreciate being considered for this assignment in addition to his regular duties, as he was keenly interested in this type of endeavor. He was of the opinion that he could devote as large a share of his time to this work as would any other officer so assigned to his office. Furthermore, due to the size of his staff, three officers, he felt he could assign the bulk of his Air duties to his assistants and concentrate his efforts on ZACACTUS matters, which he thought were of greater importance in Chile. General ACKERMAN, according to ROSS, was not adverse to this proposal but stated he would await contact from ZACACTUS Headquarters before considering the matter further.

This Station has high regard for ROSS and is of the opinion that he would apply himself in a very diligent and intelligent manner to the duties of handling ZACACTUS in Chile. He is fully aware of the necessity for discretion, as he had been briefed on this at the time the former ZACACTUS candidate had been considered for the Air Attache Office.

b) Covert field covers RESTRICTED TO WH/1/chile

This Station highly recommends Headquarters consideration of FULMINATER-1 as the principal ZACACTUS operator in Chile on a permanent basis. This person is well known to this Station and has demonstrated his ability in handling FULMINATER-2 and the publication of the posters/stickers for the UN-ECOSOC propaganda effort. His assets are generally as follows:

FORM NO. 51-28A MAR. 1949

SECURITY INFORMATION SECRET

201-33432

--- Page 18 ---

14-00000

SECURITY INFORMATION SECRET

TCS-A-1741

1) Cover: He is publisher and editor of a fairly successful weekly newspaper in Chile. Although he is at the moment considering the possibility of selling this newspaper, he has been encouraged to defer such action for thirty days pending Headquarters' decision on his case. This paper has its own printing presses and is capable of handling large printing orders of all types. This activity could be regulated in such a manner that it would only require a minimum amount of FULMINATER-1's time and would provide him with an excellent cover for his ZACACTUS activities.

2) Ability: He is a writer, playwright, publisher and editor. Those qualifications plus his initiative, imaginativeness, ingenuity and broad intellectual background should qualify him for ZACACTUS operations. He, of course, has an excellent command of Spanish as well as French and German.

3) Contacts: Due to his professional status in Chile, he is on excellent personal terms with all other newspaper publishers, correspondents and editors. He also conducts a radio program and is accordingly well informed in this field and has many radio contacts. In view of the fact he originally published his newspaper in Valparaiso, he has many contacts on the coast as well which should be important in this work.

4) Personality: He is considered exceptional both in appearance and personality and has easily acquired the confidence and friendship of Chileans and Americans alike. Due to his wide interests, he is considered very well informed and cultured. His demeanor is always that of a gentleman, yet he is capable of courageous action as evidenced by his war experience and his conduct of assignments for this Station as indicated below.

5) Intelligence experience: He was originally approved operationally to handle the complex Soviet espionage case of FULMINATER-2. His conduct of this case was considered excellent, and he displayed resourcefulness, tact and ability to handle himself in difficult circumstances. During the LCACTING operations of this Station involving the printing of the posters, stickers, handbills and the "Communist Pig", this Station called on FULMINATER-1 to do the job. It will be recalled that Headquarters was very pleased with the printing job in this project which FULMINATER-1 had done. This particular project revealed FULMINATER-1's ability to handle ZACACTUS work effectively and with discretion as borne out by the fact that the local Communists were never able to trace the origin of this material.

c) Modus operandi:

1) Diplomatic cover: It is suggested that ROSS be designated as the control officer for ZACACTUS in Chile and that he maintain the official files, funds and communications with ZACACTUS Headquarters.

SECURITY INFORMATION SECRET

201-33432

--- Page 19 ---

14-00000

SECURITY INFORMATION SECRET

TCS-A-1741

2) ZACACTUS Field Operator: It is suggested that FULMINATER-1 be employed on a regular State-side salary basis and that he be authorized a small staff to assist him in the actual handling of all field projects. He should have one officer assistant in a covert capacity and two stenographers, all of whom would be in his overt cover office, presumably as his regular employees.

3) Cut-outs, agents, etc.: FULMINATER-1 should be authorized to develop such cut-outs, agents, etc. as required to carry out his objectives in Chile.

4.  This Station is of the opinion that with the exception of possibly Mexico and Venezuela, Chile is one of the most important PW targets in Latin America. The Communist influence in Chile is unquestionably a serious political factor, and their propaganda is growing steadily throughout the country with extremely little if any opposition. The present Communist drive towards nationalization of the copper industry is gaining adherents daily and should be considered a potentially serious matter from the standpoint of our reliance on Chilean copper. Thus, it is the view of this Station that PW work is important in Chile and that its initiation on a larger scale should not be unduly delayed. It is also believed that considerable time, effort and money would be saved by utilising the talent now in Chile, such as ROSS and FULMINATER-1, who already have their feet on the ground and are ready to start.

5.  In the case of ROSS, if Headquarters is interested, it should approach General ACKERMAN direct in A-2. Regarding FULMINATER-1, a very tentative approach has been made to sound him out, and he reacted very favorably although no commitments were made as to salary or exact nature of the work. The moment for a decision in his case is very opportune, as he is planning to sell his newspaper and leave Chile for the United States or some other country. Recognizing the value his paper and presses would have to his cover and his work, he was asked, as mentioned above, to postpone selling his paper for thirty days. It is believed that he would be an excellent person for ZACACTUS in Chile and for future consideration as a Staff Officer. It is not believed that he would be interested in any salary less than $5,000 per year although again, this subject has not been discussed with him to date. It is urged, however, that Headquarters cable this Station as early as practicable if there is any interest in obtaining FULMINATER-1 as proposed above.

Jerome C. Dunbar

SECURITY INFORMATION SECRET

201-33432

--- Page 20 ---

14-00000

CLASSIFIED ONLY

CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

TO: Officer designation, room number, and building

COMMENTS (Use comment numbers to show from whom to whom route sheet is attached)
Attached are two 201's (201-10177 & 201-10121) which were brought to the attention of the 201 Section by Mrs. Roberts of the Chilean Desk. She requested that the 201 Section review these 201's since both individuals are staff employees. 201-10177 is the Deputy Chief of and 201-10121 is a staff employee currently in the TRA 201 section.
The 201 section may not extract these 201's without prior approval of the RID. Since these are being sent to you for refiling. The 201's may be either 12-1'd by the interested desk on a permanent charge or any desk cancelling by notifying the 201 Section, returning the rational material and initialing the non-terminal to the file of Personnel for retention in the personnel file. If the decision is made to retain the file on permanent charge, please notify RID Locator, X-43241.

(hand-written note)
Jean Nickerson

Have reviewed both 201's, neither of whose contents is operational. Doubt anything would be served by recalling retired ops, distributing material, me-retiring them. Please leave as is.

(Initialed.)

201-88764

SECRET CONFIDENTIAL UNCLASSIFIED

--- Page 21 ---

14-00000

VIA: AIR

DISPATCH NO. NIFT-188

TO: Chief, DATE: 29 April 1958

FROM: Chief of Station, Beirut

SUBJECT: GENERAL - Administrative
SPECIFIC - Request for Official Travel - Michael M. CHOADEN and Family

References: A. FR 22-100, Para 8.a.
B. NLBA-6479

1. It is requested that Travel Orders be issued for Michael M. CHOADEN who is returning to Headquarters for resignation. The following information is submitted in accordance with instructions contained in reference regulation:

2. Name and position of traveler: Michael M. CHOADEN, staff agent attached to the Beirut Station.

3. Purpose of travel: Return to Headquarters for resignation, with stop-off in Washington for resignation.

4. Destination: Fort Worth, Texas, residence of subject, with stop-off in Washington for resignation.

5. Estimated date of departure: 5 August 1958.

6. Approximate duration of travel: Three weeks.

7. Desired mode of transportation: Sea.

8. Desired route and stop-overs enroute: American Export Lines from Beirut to Marseilles. Thirteen day stop-over there, on leave, S.S. Constitution, also of American Export Lines, from Cannes to New York. New York to Washington by air.

9. Name and age of dependents who will accompany:
Helen, wife, 39
Maria, daughter, 8
David, son, 6
Atlee, daughter, 5
Christopher, son, 1

FORM NO. 51-28 A MAR 1945 CLASSIFICATION

--- Page 22 ---

14-00000

NLET-186
Page 2.

9. Excess baggage: Normal amount requested.

10. Shipment or storage of effects: Subject plans to ship effects to Havana, Cuba. Subject is not absolutely positive when he and family will go to Cuba; but he prefers to have effects in storage there rather than in U.S.

11. Other items or conditions: Subject may need advance for steamship deposits.

12. Not applicable.

Oscar W. Fieseler
Chief of Station, Beirut
29 April 1958

Distribution:
5 - Hqs

--- Page 23 ---

14-00000

SECRET

15 April 1958

NE-7/L&S/58-399

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH Division
SUBJECT: Mr. David A. Phillips

1. The attached dispatch from the Chief of Station, Beirut, covers the proposed resignation of Mr. David A. Phillips from CIA. The matter was discussed with the Chief of Station during his recent visit to Headquarters, and he feels that Mr. Phillips' decision to return to South America is irrevocable.

2. Mr. Phillips, as you are aware, was in Havana until the spring of 1957, at which time he accepted a staff agent position in Beirut. His primary responsibility was the establishment of a radio and television production center in addition to providing a variety of covert programs in the psychological field. Mr. Phillips was instrumental in the establishment of a clandestine radio broadcasting station in the area in addition to the more direct responsibilities of his Beirut assignment.

3. The Chief of Station indicated that Mr. Phillips did a highly commendable job while in Beirut and feels his departure from the Middle East is regrettable; however, he was unable to dissuade Mr. Phillips from his desires to leave CIA. Headquarters has been equally impressed by Mr. Phillips' services and feels he performed in an exemplary manner, utilizing his mature judgment and excellent PP sense in attaining the objectives which led to his assignment in Beirut.

for NORMAN S. PAUL
Chief,
Division of Near East and Africa

Attachment

SECRET

--- Page 24 ---

14-00000

SECRET

Retyped from NLBA-6479

SUBJECT: Future Resignation from CIA of David Phillips

1. In a recent meeting with the Chief of Station, David Phillips, the PECTATE case officer, informally announced his intention of resigning from CIA in the near future. At that time Phillips requested that Headquarters be informed by the Chief of Station. The decision to resign has been made informally, in order for the Station and Headquarters to have as much advance notice as possible. Actually, Phillips does not expect to leave his Beirut assignment for about four months, or sometime in the month of July. Phillips reports that the PECTATE building will have been finished and occupied by PECTATE staffers long before that time.

2. In the above-mentioned meeting, and in a Memorandum for the Record submitted to the Chief of Station, Phillips has emphasized that his decision was reached after careful thought and has been prompted solely by personal considerations. Specifically the reasons are:

a. The necessity of Phillips' return to Latin America to take care of personal business problems, mainly the sale of his newspaper in Chile. He has been negotiating for this sale for many months, but he feels that an advantageous agreement would be impossible to reach by mail from such a distance.

b. Phillips' desire to inaugurate a business firm in Cuba.

3. The Chief of Station has discussed this matter with Phillips in detail. Phillips has reiterated--and has requested that Headquarters be so advised--that his decision is purely personal. There is no question of dissatisfaction with CIA, or of a morale problem. On the contrary, Phillips has expressed his regret that circumstances prompt him to terminate what he has described as a most rewarding association with CIA.

4. Phillips' plans for leaving the Beirut assignment bring up the problem of future CIA control of PECTATE. Phillips has submitted to the Chief of Station his personal recommendations on this score, which have been considered in preparing a separate dispatch.

GHOSN ZOGBY
Chief of Station
24 March 1958 Beirut

SECRET

--- Page 25 ---

14-00000

Chief of Station, Beirut
Chief, HEA

ACTION RE: As requested in paragraph 1.

1. Please advise CIGAR of the following,