14-00000
104-10216-10338

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ORIG:

W. INWRIGHT

HST W/C/PI/TC

MESSAGE FORM

☐ NO BOOK
✓ SECRET

6153

DATE: 24/MARCH/1965

☐ ALL IN CS FILE NO. 18-05

TO: PARIS

FROM: DIRECTOR

CO: OCI/WH/C 5 100 FIE, UR, DOP, plano, cwe 3, c/CI

PRITY PARI

INFO: PBRUMEN UNSNAFU AMLASH AMWHIP

REF: PARI 9995 (IN 29053)*

CITE: 9550

1. DO NOT BELIEVE UNSNAFU/19 FIRING IN ITSELF A HAZARD TO AMLASH/1. HOWEVER, DO FEEL IT NECESSARY ATTEMPT DETERMINE BACKGROUND TO UNSNAFU/19 STATEMENT THAT U/9 WAS "DIRTY KUBARK AGENT", I.E. WAS THIS JUST HEATED UNCOMPLIMENTARY EPITHET OR WAS IT BASED ON DSE KNOWLEDGE MADE AVAILABLE TO U/19. IN EITHER CASE, BELIEVE IT MERITS RELAY TO AMLASH/1. SUGGEST FOLLOWING: WHEN AMWHIP/1 ARRIVES PARI IN NEAR FUTURE, ASK HIM ATTEMPT WITH GREAT CAUTION DETERMINE IMPLICATIONS U/19 ABOVE ACCUSATION. THEN HAVE HIM CALL HIS JEWELER FRIEND IN HAVANA, JOSE IGLESIAS, OSTENSIBLY ON BUSINESS MATTER AS COVER, AND RELAY PERTINENT DETAILS OF U/9 INCIDENT AS ROUTINE FRIENDLY GOSSIP. AMWHIP/1 SHOULD HAVE NO PROBLEM INSURING THAT MUTUAL FRIEND IGLESIAS WILL RELAY THE NEWS POSTHASTE TO AMLASH/1. BELIEVE THIS SECURE ENOUGH AND EMINENTLY FASTER AND MORE CERTAIN THAN S/W LETTER.

2. IF AMWHIP/1 FEELS THIS METHOD UNSAFE AT THIS TIME, ANY REASON, ADVISE SOONEST.

3. PLS KEEP HQS CURRENT ALL ASPECTS THIS MATTER.

END OF MESSAGE

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

MESSAGE FORM

SECRET/RYBAT

☐ NO INDEX
FILE IN CS FILE NO.

TO:

FROM: DIRECTOR

PAGE TWO

CITE: 95584

*WH/C/Comment: UNSNAFU/19 fired in row with UNSNAFU/9. Requested guidance.

THOMAS F. THIELE
C/WE/INT

D/WH/C/FI

WE/S/C Wright

DESMOND FITZGERALD
C/WH

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
