14-00000
(104-10121-10304 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992)
RETURN TO CIA.

Background Use Only
INTERVIEW PROCESSING SHEET ROUTING - Do Not Reproduce

Subject:

Advice received reveals that the subject person is scheduled for overseas travel as indicated below.

Departure Date:
Destination:

Cover Story:
Return Date:

Title & Grade:
Office & Division:
Passport Type & No.:

PRELIMINARY PROCESSING - A review of this file and the above information reveals:

☐ No special briefing topics or ☐ See below
☐ No special cover problems or ☐ See below
☐ No special debriefing by other or ☐ Requires debriefings on (as circled) SI Q CRYPT
☐ No special badges or credentials or ☐ See remarks

REMARKS:

Date of Polygraph: 10/53 cert 11/55

INTERVIEW - On the indicated date subject was interviewed on the following points:

1. Security regulations in general.
2. ✓ Travel Precautions (to carry nothing identifying him with CIA).
3. ✓ Cover Story (nature of cover; adequacy or prior briefing; possibility of inconsistencies; briefing of spouse).
4. Personal Affairs (proper handling of bank account, credit accounts, forwarding of mail).
5. Personal Correspondence (no mention of CIA in letters to and from subject).
6. Personal Conduct (a. general good behavior, b. no black market or currency transactions, c. no undue curiosity in natives in his area, d. no attempts to identify or approach other CIA personnel in area except for official business and through official channels).
7. Other Travel (only official travel in or through Soviet controlled areas).
8. Other:

ACTION

☐ Security debriefing by the undersigned completes action necessary in this case.
☐ The following were obtained from subject and forwarded appropriately for disposition.
☐ Subject was referred to the following for the indicated additional briefing:
☐ Subject was permitted to retain the following for turn in at a later date.

By:
Date:
