Okay, I have analyzed the Tesseract and Google Vision OCR texts and produced a combined, cleaned-up version, formatted in Markdown.

```markdown
14-00000
104-10182-10072
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: (VLI)

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: THIS FILE 72 ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY: OTHER AGENCY RETURNS (FBI, ETC.)

DATE RECEIVED: 3/3/78
DATE RETURNED: 3/3/78
BY (PRINT NAME): DAN HARDWAY

SIGNATURE OF REVIEVING OFFICIAL: DAN HARDWAY

SUBJECT: MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL III
FILE NUMBER: 201-259910

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.

---

14-00000
CONFIDENTIAL

INFORMATION REQUEST

SUBJECT OR OTHER INDIVIDUAL INDEXED IN THIS DOSSIER IS INVOLVED IN A REQUEST UNDER:

(CHECK ONE)

*   PRIVACY ACT
*   FOIA
*   OGC/OLC
*   OTHER (Specify nature of request under remarks)

SUBJECT OF REQUEST: MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL III
FILE NO.: 201-259910

DOCUMENT SYMBOL, NO. & DATE (If request is on other than subject of 201 file)

REQUEST NO.: 876-28
DATE COMPLETED: APRIL 1977
DATE APPEALED (If applicable)

REMARKS:

DO NOT FILE ABOVE THIS FORM
DO NOT REMOVE THIS FORM FROM THIS FILE.

FOR OGC USE ONLY: 183955

CONFIDENTIAL
CL BY: 005911

---

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

SECRET

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR: 1C/14/St

CONF: C/CAS
INFO: FILE

DATE/TIME GROUP: 022001Z
DATE: CIA
MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER: 960321

PAGE 1 OF 4 PAGES

DISSEM BY: Go to PER Sop

TO: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION//ATTN: RK MCHARGUE/GENERAL INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION.

SECRET--WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS--NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS

CIR-316/00302-77

SUBJECT: BOMBING OF FORMER CHILEAN AMBASSADOR TO THE UNITED STATES: NAME TRACE, MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL III

REF: FBI CABLE REQUEST DATED 14 JANUARY 1977

1.  THE FILES OF THIS AGENCY CONTAIN CONSIDERABLE INFORMATION ON MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL III, BORN 8 MARCH 1918 IN PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA. THE MAJORITY OF THE INFORMATION WAS FURNISHED BY YOUR BUREAU. THIS AGENCY PREVIOUSLY FURNISHED THE FBI WITH INFORMATION ON WERBELL UNDER CSCI-3/773317 OF 24 OCTOBER 1962, SUBJECT WERBELL, MITCHELL L AND CSCI-316/02323-69 OF 27 JUNE 1969, SUBJECT WERBELL, MITCHELL LIVINGSTON III. IN ADDITION, THIS AGENCY FURNISHED YOUR BUREAU WITH MEMORANDA CONCERNING SUBJECT MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL III DATED 27 JUNE 1974, 8 AUGUST 1974, 9 AUGUST 1974, AND 12 AUGUST 1974.

ORIG: DC/LA/SAL
UNIT: C/18/ans, 1/LS~/10, c/pcs, "/PCS/ITC2, AGC/000,-/oms 2, 401; 0003,000/00
EXT: 132

CLURON: BENG FORM OG TO GARI SDX
E 2 IMPDET

---

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

SECRET

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR

CONF:
INFO: FILE

DATE/TIME GROUP: 980121
DATE: CIA

PAGE 2 OF 4 PAGES

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER
DISSEM BY: ASTUAN TO PER

2.  WERBELL HAS NEVER BEEN EMPLOYED BY THIS AGENCY NOR DOES THE AGENCY HAVE ANY OPERATIONAL INTEREST IN HIM. WERBELL WAS A COMMISSIONED OFFICER WITH THE OSS DURING WORLD WAR II AND SERVED IN THE CHINA-BURMA-INDIA THEATRE. IN AUGUST OF 1959 THIS AGENCY CONSIDERED USING WERBELL AS A SOURCE OF INFORMATION ON REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES IN THE CARIBBEAN AREA, PARTICULARLY CUBA, BUT TERMINATED ITS CONSIDERATION OF HIS POSSIBLE USE IN OCTOBER 1959 WHEN IT WAS DETERMINED THAT HIS INFORMATION WAS OF LITTLE VALUE AND IT WAS SUSPECTED THAT HE WOULD USE THE PROPOSED CONNECTION WITH THE AGENCY TO PROMOTE HIS PERSONAL INTERESTS.

3.  DURING AUGUST AND SEPTEMBER 1962 REPORTING ON WERBELL REVEALED THAT HE VISITED SEVERAL CENTRAL AMERICAN COUNTRIES AND APPEARED TO BE CONTACTING OFFICIALS OF THE GOVERNMENTS OF GUATEMALA, NICARAGUA AND EL SALVADOR FOR THE PURPOSE OF OBTAINING RECOGNITION OF "DE FACTO" CUBAN GOVERNMENT IN EXILE CALLED THE "UNITED ORGANIZATION FOR THE LIBERATION OF CUBA." IN DISCUSSIONS WITH NICARAGUAN GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVES, WERBELL CLAIMED THE PROPOSED CUBAN EXILE GOVERNMENT

ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:

E 2 IMP.DET
Ci AV.

---

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

SECRET

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR

CONF:
INFO: FILE

DATE/TIME GROUP: 980121
DATE: CIA

PAGE 3 OF 4 PAGES

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER
DISSEM BY: NOPOL PER

HAD THE SUPPORT OF NINETY SEPARATE CUBAN EXILE ORGANIZATIONS AND 186,000 CUBAN EXILES. HE ALLEGEDLY OFFERED A NICARAGUAN GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL $100,000 TO OBTAIN THAT GOVERNMENT'S RECOGNITION OF THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT IN EXILE.

4.  IN DECEMBER 1965, WERBELL SPOKE TO A MIAMI CONTACT OF THIS AGENCY AND TOLD HIM THAT HE AND SIX CUBAN EXILES IN THE UNITED STATES HAD ORGANIZED A GROUP, INCLUDING APPROXIMATELY TWENTY CUBANS INSIDE CUBA, TO PERFORM A COMMANDO OPERATION IN CUBA IN EARLY JANUARY 1966. THEIR PRIMARY MISSION WAS THE ASSASSINATION OF CUBAN PREMIER FIDEL CASTRO, WITH THE SECONDARY MISSION BEING THAT OF BLOWING UP THE POWER GENERATORS THAT SUPPLY THE ELECTRICITY TO HAVANA. WERBELL, AT THE TIME, STATED THAT HE WAS TRYING TO GET THE "GREEN LIGHT" FROM THE CIA TO PROCEED WITH THE MISSION, AND INFERRED THAT THE MISSION WOULD BE ABORTED IF SUCH APPROVAL WAS NOT OBTAINED. [NOTE: THIS AGENCY WAS NOT IN CONTACT WITH WERBELL IN ANY WAY WHATSOEVER IN THE ENDEAVOR ]

5.  IN EARLY 1969 WERBELL WAS IN THAILAND REPRESENTING HIMSELF AS VICE PRESIDENT OF SIONICS, INC. OF ATLANTA, GEORGIA. HE DESCRIBED HIMSELF AS A COUNTERINSURGENCY EXPERT, CLAIMED TO BE A RETIRED COLONEL, AND INTRODUCED HIMSELF AT A LOCAL NIGHTCLUB AS THE CHIEF OF CIA IN THAILAND. [NOTE: WERBELL WAS NEITHER THE CIA CHIEF OF STATION IN THAILAND NOR AFFILIATED WITH CIA IN ANY WAY.] WERBELL ATTEMPTED TO SELL EXOTIC WEAPONS TO THE THAIS AND TO TRAIN THEM IN COUNTERINSURGENCY WARFARE.

ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:

AUTISTIC OFFICE
E 2 IMPDET
C RY C

---

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

SECRET

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR

CONF:
INFO: FILE

DATE/TIME GROUP: 980121
DATE: CIA

PAGE 4 OF 4 PAGES

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER
DISSEM BY: NOSHDET RETURN TO PER

6.  WERBELL ALLEGEDLY OPERATES THROUGH A NUMBER OF FRONT BUSINESSES, ONE OF WHICH IS CALLED THE CENTRAL INFORMATION AGENCY (CIA). IN SOME OF HIS DEALINGS WERBELL BROADLY HINTS THAT HE HAS CONNECTIONS WITH THIS AGENCY.

7.  THIS AGENCY HAS INFORMATION FROM THE FPE Uning HIZKAGIO SONE OF THE TYPES OF WEAPONRY THAT PERSAPHERRELL PURPORTS TO SELL. THIS INFORMATION WILL BE FORGARDES TO YOUR BUS#@O8 NICE NEW TO YOU. ANY FURTHER INFORISATION FOUR FILES ONARIS SHUT GILL BE FORGARDES TO YOUR BUREAU.

8.  CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. EXEMPT FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE OF E.O. 11652 EXEMPTION CATEGORY 58 (2%). IMPOSSIBLE TO DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICATION 1 FEBRUARY 1977

ORIG: BILL WAGNER:MM
UNIT: C/LA/SB/CH
EXT: 1471

C/PCS/LSN
ISING
SC/LA/SB/
C/LA/COG/OPS- WM. DEVINE
(IN DRAFT)
SOG/G/MSS- D-BLOOMFIELD R. You
AGC/D20.
(IN DRAFT)

AUTHENTICATO
E 2 IMP.DET
C RV.

---

14-00000
CONFIDENTIAL
QC77-0704
1 February 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Operations
ATTENTION: Associate Deputy Director for Operations
FROM: Walter T. Lloyd
Associate General Counsel

SUBJECT: Mitchell Livingston Werbell, III

1.  As you are aware, on the instruction of United States District Judge Peter Fay (Miami, Florida Division), incident to the Drug Enforcement Administration's prosecution of Subject for conspiracy to import and distribute multi-ton loads of marijuana, the undersigned made a detailed review of the files of this Agency concerning Subject in August 1976. This examination was to ascertain any data that ran to Werbell's guilt or innocence of the offense charged and any other data reflecting the nature of the relationship between Werbell and the U.S. Government. This latter requirement was grounded on the Court's view that Werbell's voluntary reporting to the Agency and any government condonation of his activities might be exculpatory in the eyes of the jury.

2.  In response, we reviewed the files, identified Agency contacts with Subject and prepared two affidavits: one regarding non-employment by Mr. B. DeFelice and the second regarding Werbell's relationship to the Agency by the undersigned. Copies are attached. During the trial the first affidavit was shown to counsel for Werbell by DEA counsel, Mr. Sam Sheres, at which point defendant's counsel stipulated that Werbell was never a formal employee of the Central Intelligence Agency. Sheres subsequently returned the affidavits to the undersigned at the conclusion of the trial.

E2 IMPDET
CL BY: 059605

---

14-00000

3.  Regarding the relationship of Werbell to the Agency, as approved by the Deputy Director, the undersigned appeared before Judge Fay in his chambers on 31 August and under oath answered questions of the Court concerning Werbell. A copy of the transcript of that proceeding is attached. You will note that Judge Fay requested that all pertinent government records be made available to the Court for its inspection. Accordingly, copies of Agency files were reproduced, culled for "Brady-type" documents, excised to protect sources and methods under the "SWP case criteria" and reviewed and approved by Assistant DD/O on the evening of 1 September. These processed documents were then handcarried to Miami by the undersigned on 2 September.

4.  The undersigned advised Judge Fay at 0830 hours on 2 September that I had in my possession copies of all of the Agency files on Werbell, had culled them as to possible "Brady" documents and was prepared to review them with the Judge at his convenience. He was on the bench with a tight schedule and asked that the possible Brady documents first be reviewed by Karen Atkinson, the principal counsel for the prosecution. The undersigned subsequently briefed Atkinson on the nature of data in the possible Brady documents. This resulted in a significant reduction in the number of possibles. The undersigned gave Atkinson copies of the four unclassified OGC documents related to the DOD revocation of Werbell's security clearance in 1971. In addition, Office of Security documents edited and approved for release to Werbell under his Freedom of Information and Privacy Act request (Tabs A and B of OS response), consisting of media publications and security investigative data, were also provided Atkinson. Due to counsel for Werbell raising an issue on Werbell's use of a boat named "Venus" belonging to CIA, a declassified copy of the OS short investigative report outlining data concerning Werbell's use of the Venus to transport arms was also provided Atkinson. The related OS Headquarters assignment document was not provided. Related DDO documents on the ownership of Venus by the "JURE" Cuban group were mentioned to Atkinson but not made available.

5.  While the above documents were provided the Department of Justice with the understanding they could be passed to Counsel for Werbell due to subsequent events noted below, it is not certain that this occurred. Specifically, the undersigned declined to release additional "Brady" documents without consultation and instructions

---

14-000

from the Court. The requested meeting was put off by Judge Fay and defendante subsequently rested their case. The DOJ had little else to add and the case went to the jury about noon on 3 September. All the remaining copies of Agency documents were returned to Headquarters by the undersigned the evening of 3 September. On 4 September the jury returned a verdict of "not guilty." As a result, the bulk of "Brady-type" Agency documents on Werbell was not provided to counsel for Werbell and Judge Fay reviewed no Agency documents. It should be noted all copies of documents taken to Miami were excised in accord with the "SWP case criteria" and on return to Headquarters, these were destroyed by the undersigned.

6.  As a related matter, on 16 November Mr. Arthur Egbert of the Internal Security Division of the DEA contacted the undersigned seeking background information on Werbell. The undersigned suggested Egbert first review the files of the FBI on Werbell as most of the data we have is contained in FBI reports. Should FBI data be insufficient for his needs I suggested he seek access to our files in DDO and Office of Security via the normal DEA Department of Justice liaison channels.

Walter T. Lloyd

Attachments:

(1) Affidavit - DeFelice
(2) Affidavit - Lloyd
(3) Transcript of Hearing of USDC for Southern District of Florida, August 31, 1976.

cc: Jerry Brown, SAG/OS, w/o atts
Ed Montgomery, LD/SBCH/DDO, w/o atts

---

14 00000
OGC 76-0844
24 February 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, SOG
Chief, DCD
Chief, LA Division

SUBJECT: Mitchell Livingston Werbel III

1.  I was advised by the Justice Department on 23 February that Werbel has been indicted and the trial is scheduled to begin on 29 March in Miami, Florida. The charges relate to importing and distributing quantities of marijuana. With Werbel's propensity to raise his past affiliations with the Agency, we can anticipate problems during this trial. An additional problem is presented because Werbel is defended by Edwin Marger who was the defense attorney for John Hawk in the B-26 case in Buffalo, New York in 1966. It was Edwin Marger who subpoenaed the CIA General Counsel as a defense witness.

2.  The Justice Department has received information that a person either currently or formerly affiliated with the CIA has been participating in Werbel's meetings with his attorney. It would be appreciated if all addressees could review their holdings on Werbel and determine if there is any validity to any recent contacts with him. I would urge that instructions be sent to Miami that no, repeat no, contact with Werbel take place between now and the beginning of the trial.

3.  It would be helpful if each addressee could prepare a summary of the various contacts Werbel has had with CIA in the past. Please check to see if you have any information on a Colonel Bayard who was killed in Atlanta, Georgia during the summer of 1975. Bayard, reportedly an associate of Werbel's, had previous contacts with the Agency. It would be appreciated if your responses could be received by close of business 2 March.

John K. Greaney
Associate General Counsel

---

1400000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

SECRET

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR DEFERRED TELEPOUCH

CONF: 18/OPS INFO: FILE

DATE-TIME GROUP 27020JZ
WASHINGTON 834069
DISSEM BY: NETAGERE PER

TO: LA/MIAMI.

FROM: LA/CAR

SUBJECT: MITCHELL LIVINGSTONE WERBEL III

REF: UFPA-1860, 9 JUNE 1975

1.  MITCHELL LIVINGSTONE WERBEL III, WHO IS ONE OF THE PERSONS MENTIONED IN THE DEA REPORT QUOTED IN THE REFERENCE, HAS BEEN INDICTED ON CHARGES RELATING TO THE IMPORTATION AND DISTRIBUTION OF MARIJUANA

2.  WHILE WE HAVE SO FAR UNCOVERED NO BKHERALD CONNECTION WITH WERBEL, THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE HAS RECEIVED INFORMATION THAT A PERSON EITHER CURRENTLY OR FORMERLY AFFILIATED WITH BKHERALD HAS BEEN PARTICIPATING IN WERBEL'S MEETINGS WITH HIS ATTORNEY.

3.  FURTHERMORE, SINCE WERBEL HAS IMPLIED (APPARENTLY FREQUENTLY) IN THE PAST THAT HE HAS HAD BKHERALD CONNECTION OR SUPPORT IN HIS QUESTIONABLE ACTIVITIES, LARGELY INVOLVING ARMS AND AMMUNITION, THERE IS A POSSIBILITY THAT HE MIGHT ATTEMPT IN ONE WAY OR ANOTHER TO IMPLICATE BKHERALD IN HIS CURRENT PROBLEM. WE THEREFORE REQUEST THAT YOU COMPLETELY AVOID WERBEL OR ANYONE CLAIMING TO REPRESENT HIM SHOULD HE ATTEMPT SOME CONTACT WITH THE STATION. (DCD/MIAMI WILL RECEIVE SIMILAR INSTRUCTIONS-)

THE COS HAS BEEN INFORMED OF THE FOREGOING AND CONCURS.

FILE: 201-259930.

DATE: 26 FEB 76
ORIG: L. BURNETT/JP
UNIT: LA/CAR
EXT: 3497

WIL
AC/LA/CAR

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
SECRET
E 2 IMPDET
CL BY: 0129130

---

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

SECRET

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR DEFERRED TELEPOUCH

CONF: INFO: FILE

DATE-TIME GROUP 814069
WASHINGTON
DISSEM BY: PER

TO: FR/NEW YORK INFO NICOSIA

KEYWAY FORRES

REFS: A. FR/NEW YORK 33363 IN 758465) (BEING RELAYED TO NICOSIA)
B. DIRECTOR 769406 NF 18281
C. DIRECTOR 670514 (NOT NEEDED NICOSIA)

PRIOR TO RECEIPT REFA, HQS ADVISED BY SECRET SERVICE THAT THERE HAD BEEN NO FURTHER DEVELOPMENTS IN REF B CASE CONCERNING EMMANUEL KASSELAKIS AND STAVROS SYKOPETRITIS AND THAT KASSELAKIS' STORY NOW CONSIDERED TO BE BOGUS. SECRET SERVICE FURTHER ADVISED THAT KASSELAKIS PROVIDED OTHER INFORMATION WHICH ALSO CONSIDERED SUSPECT CONCERNING ARMS TRANSACTIONS AND THAT THIS INFORMATION PASSED TO NEW YORK BASE. SECRET SERVICE SUBSEQUENTLY CONFIRMED THAT REF A INFORMATION WAS RECEIVED FROM KASSELAKIS.

2.  UNABLE TO IDENTIFY GEORGE STRATOS.

3.  FOR FR/NEW YORK: WEEBLER IS MITCHELL L. WERBELL (201-259910) OF REF C.

4.  SAMUEL SCRIVENER JR., WASHINGTON ATTORNEY, EMPLOYED BY BKHERALD IN EARLY 1950'S AS CONSULTANT.

DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
SECRET
E 2 IMPDET
CL BY: 060757

---

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

SECRET

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR

CONF:
INFO: FILE

DATE/TIME GROUP 780867
DIRECTOR
MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER
DISSEM BY: PER

UNABLE TO IDENTIFY DOMINICAN COMPANY

201-257910,

FILE: 201-889547; X REF 201-060338.

DATE: DECEMBER 1975
ORIG: DAVES/HARD/AMU
UNIT: OPS/LSN/IDCIN SUBSTANCE}
EXT: 1441

C/FR/2
E/GC
E/EXOCIN SUBSTANCE}
Tif Strous
CA/E/GC

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
SECRET
E 2 IMPOET
DV. 017447

---

14-00000

7-71 MFC. 2/75

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED

TOTAL COPIES

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN

ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

STAFF

FILE VR

ACTION UNIT

ACTION

T 504725
EIA377
C14, LEN/10, cloes, 55/5U64

PAGE 01 IN 75 84 65

TOR1216352 DEC 75 NYFR 33363

SECRET #217592 DEC 75 STAFF

CITE FR/NEW YORK 33363

TO: DIRECTOR.

KEYWAY FOR ES

COPY FOR 201-259910

DO NOT DESTROY

1. LOCAL SECRET SERVICE REPORTS FOLLOWING FROM INFORMANT OF ES- TABLISHED RELIABILITY. ONE GEORGE STRATOS, LOCAL GREEK-AMERICAN OR- CHESTRA LEADER, VISITED CYPRIOTE AMBASSADOR DIMITRIOU IN WASHINGTON CA 28 NOV TO SOLICIT HIS WILLINGNESS PURCHASE 25 THOUSAND M-16 RIFLES AT $215 EACH TRANSACTION TO BE CONSUMATED OUTSIDE U.S. DIMITRIOU DECLINED ON GROUNDS PRICE BUT REQUESTED STRATOS SUBMIT PROPOSAL FOR MANUFACUTRE AND SALE OF "HIGH-POWERED MARK I AND II HAND GUNS". WEAPONS WOULD BE MANUFACTURED EV DOMINICAN COMPANY, TELEPHONE NUMBER 532-1819 RPT 532-1819. STRATOS AGREED WORK UP DETAILS.

2. ADDITIONAL DETAILS PROVIDED BY INFORMANT: ONE OF NINE PART- [NERS OF STRATOS IS ONE MITCH WEEBLER, WHO STRATOS CLAIMS IS FORMER BKHERALD. STRATOS WASHINGTON ATTORNEY. IS SAM SCHREIVNER (PHON), TELEPHONE (222) 296-2950. STRATOS CLAIMED M-16'S AND 462 M-62 MACHINE GUNS. HE ALSO WISHES SELL REPRESENT U.S. ARMS LOST INDOCHINA.

3. SECRET SERVICE OFFICER (ALO OF GREEK BACKGROUND) REPORTS STRATOS WAS CLOSE TO PAPADOPOULOS GOVERNMENT. AND NOTES THAT LARGE

SECRET

---

14-00000

7-71 UFG. 2/7s

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED

ACTION UNIT

FILE VR

ACTION

T 831208

EIA365

PAGE 02-02

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN

ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

STAFF

IN 511214

TORI 2218352 DEC 75

NYFR 33363

AMOUNTS OF U.S. ARMS WERE DISCOVERED MISSING FROM GREEK ARMORIES WHEN NEW GOVERNMENT TOOK INVENTORY IN 1974

NO FILE: EZ IMPOET

---

14-00000

The Amazing
New-Country Caper

by Andrew St. George

Capitalist revolution, the ultimate solution

For the first time in history, the successful managers of America's economy—its entrepreneurs, financiers, merchandisers, investors—are talking rebellion. A kind of rebellion, anyway. There is no call to subvert the Republic, only to abandon it. In increasing numbers, America's most affluent and active elites are threatening to withdraw their funds, their assets, ultimately even themselves and their families from the centers of the U.S. economy, which many of them seem to consider done for. Nicholas von Hoffman, the acerbic and preternaturally foresighted columnist of The Washington Post, found that in some of mid-America's best executive clubs, "There is talk of buying gold coins and keeping them in the office safe, of owning a piece of land to retreat to when the trouble starts." The hero of the year's most durable best seller, You Can Profit From a Monetary Crisis, by Harry Browne, is "Peter Panic," the quintessential American small investor. He is in flight from his own national economy. Transferring every penny he owns from U.S. investments into Swiss banks and South African gold stocks, Peter Panic practically doubles his worth from 1970 to '73; then he is ready to take the most important step to find himself a secluded rural retreat to weather the nation's coming troubles.

But retreat where? That's the basic problem none of these doomsayers grapples with. A seventy-five-thousand-dollar-a-year man who pulls up lock, stock and bond investments to move to a secluded farmhouse may find there a measure of protection from random violence or he may find, if real trouble starts, that in his isolation he's utterly defenseless.

Unless, of course, he has planned ahead—as far ahead and as carefully as the originators of what one can only call, for the moment, the Abaco Plan (it remains to be seen by events, of course, whether the Abaco planners were as wise and prescient as they were farsighted and careful). The originators of the Abaco idea were the first to implement the urge to abandon America with a concrete design, including a destination, provision for personal and financial safety, monetary reward and even a Utopian social program. Though the men behind Abaco are nearly the opposite of the commune-seekers of the late Sixties and early Seventies, their objectives are much the same. They seek a way out and a return to fundamental values, but their most fundamental value is the proposition that each of them should be many times a millionaire, untroubled by inflation.

By the time you read this, the men of Abaco may have accomplished the first stages of their program in which case you will have read about them in the newspapers or they may have failed and be in the process of regrouping. But I'd like you to meet them as I did, at a lunch in Washington, D.C., last May.

"Cry He!" and let slip the dogs of War?"

No, sir! Not here in Duke Zeibert's place you don't; this well-bred Washington restaurant admits no animals. Not even if they're wearing eighty-dollar Church's shoes. Not even if they happen to be the familiar old two-legged war hounds who were made immortal in the Shakespearean line, and who are being made fashionable again this year by the success of Frederick Forsyth's latest book, The Dogs of War.

Here we are in 1974, murky, angst-ridden, confusing old '74, and with Forsyth's novel a best seller, hailed as "soon to be a major movie," deferentially praised for its "repertorial realism," more and more people are talking about "the dogs of war" as if they knew what the phrase meant: an international conspiracy of financiers and killer commandos who wage mercenary mini-wars in the quest for maxi-payoffs. What nonsense! A drink at Duke Zeibert's polished bar will give us a better view of reality than Fred Forsyth's collected works.

Take Mister Mitchell Livingston Werbell here, a ruddy, jovial, moustached chap sipping his preprandial Tanqueray martini extra dry. It's obvious that if there were anything doggy or bellicose about Werbell, he wouldn't be lunching where he is at the head of the old Duke's prize front corner table.

Or take the tall, well-tailored man sitting next to Werbell. It is plain at a glance that he looks and - having just been overheard asking, "May I have the pickles, please" - sounds like a patrician London clubman. And that's just what he is: Robert Hamilton, Baron of Belhaven and Stenton, a distinguished member of the House of Lords.

In fact, a good look at the legendary Mitch WerBell - millionaire firearms tycoon, designer of the world's best muzzle silencer, adventurer, friend of dictators and C.I.A. agents, manipulator of the luck of small nations - and at the seven men who are his luncheon guests today reminds us that, in real life, the strategy of private wars demands, first of all, finesse. In Forsyth's telling, "the dogs of war" get together only to make hard-boiled conversation about "knocking off an entire republic" with the aid of World War II machine pistols laboriously concealed in oil drums. WerBell's world is different. A top executive of Defense Services International, Military Armaments Corporation and Sionics Inc., he designs and manufactures his own weaponry, which are recognized all over the world as the most sophisticated small arms obtainable. Having acquired a taste for irregular warfare as an O.S.S. commando leader behind Japanese lines in World War II, WerBell is rumored to have taken a hand in a long string of mini-wars since then, from the South China Sea to the Caribbean and the Mediterranean. But WerBell frowns on crass badinage, especially with food. At Zeibert's the table talk is mostly about gastronomy today, in part because the dill sours and soft-shell crabs are truly remarkable, in part because the host at the neighboring table is Clifton Daniel, the silver-haired Washington bureau chief of The New York Times.

But by the time coffee and Courvoisier arrive, Daniel and his party depart. WerBell lights a finely veined Montecruz double corona. "I talked to the island today," he says, and suddenly the table is all attention.

"The island" - that's what this lunch is all about. The island is Abaco; not yet an independent republic, nor a center of commerce and finance, but by no means a negligible coral hump, either. In fact, Abaco is the second-largest landmass in the Bahamas - Great Abaco and Little Abaco, surrounded by a sprinkling of small reefs and cays, over seven hundred square miles of fertile tropical paradise. Mitch WerBell and his guests have come to Washington to discuss a project straight out of a Forsyth script: the take-over of Abaco - an action that will allow these men to get themselves and their money profitably out of the U.S.

To be sure, any resemblance to popular fiction stops short with the basic idea. Commando politics is dead. It will no longer do to break open a case of bootleg hand grenades and storm the palace. In fact, Abaco has no palace. What it does have is six to seven thousand native inhabitants who lead lives ranging from quiet stagnation to mute poverty.

To be conquered, Abaco must be attacked - that fundamental aspect of territorial expansion has not changed in four thousand years - but in an age of psychological warfare, motivational research, subliminal propaganda and behavior modification, the tactics must be different. WerBell's first assault on Abaco has been psychological. With great skill and ruthless persuasiveness, the citizens of Abaco are convinced, step by step, that they must become an independent nation; that becoming an independent nation is the greatest, most rewarding thing in the whole wide world; that it is they, the citizenry of Abaco, who must urgently need and demand and fight for status as a self-governing commonwealth.

"I talked to the island for almost an hour this morning," WerBell repeats gently, now that everyone around the table is watching him with close attention. "They finally got the slips. They've already distributed half of them. They'll make a one-spot run this weekend and see how they score. They think it'll be sixty to sixty-five percent."

No translation is needed. As the Watergate tapes have demonstrated, men who share a secret scenario come to share a secret language, as if by osmosis. WerBell's remarks reveal that he has had a long-distance conversation this morning with one of his chief operatives on Abaco, using a clear phone line - i.e., a connection involving untapped phone numbers. (If the conversation had not involved a key agent on Abaco, and if the phone had been suspect, the conversation would have been brief.)

The agent on the island - most likely C. R. "Chuck" Hall, who has served as WerBell's principal operative on Abaco during most of the Summer of 1974 - reported that the special courier who occasionally arrives from Miami aboard a small amphibian seaplane, bringing consignments which the Nassau authorities are not supposed to see, had delivered a shipment of blank survey forms. These polling slips, devised by a prestigious U.S. opinion-research firm, are to monitor sentiment on Abaco in favor of independence - not just once, but week by week, as WerBell's psywar campaign unfolds.

Furthermore, WerBell learned this morning that a test sampling focused on a single Abaco settlement, perhaps Marsh Harbour or Fox Town, had been scheduled by his agents on Abaco for the coming weekend. The organizers expected to poll between sixty and sixty-five percent in favor of independence - an impressive score, reflecting the fact that the covert political campaign of WerBell and Co. is in its sixth month.

Are these people serious? They are indeed - not merely serious but experienced, powerful and farsighted. Three of WerBell's luncheon guests are former C.I.A. career officers, all three recently retired from its clandestine services branch, where they acquired invaluable experience in the manipulation, dismantling and rearranging of governments. John Muldoon, who is WerBell's principal agent in Washington, has served as a PolAd - a political adviser - in Vietnam and Africa. Walter Mackem has seen similar duty in a number of Southeast Asian countries, and Ted Roussos, a tanned, greying man, has been a senior C.I.A. clandestine services official in the Mediterranean - Italy, the Balkans, above all Greece - for almost twenty years before he retired last year to join, ostensibly, the management of the Astor, Washington's best Greek restaurant, long owned by his family.

These men are not war hounds or gunslingers. Their ethos and telos thrust not toward violence but toward control. They are technetronic conflict managers - planners, organizers, and only occasionally the manipulators of violent action. Muldoon is a tall, pink, deep-chested Irishman faithfully cast in the mold from which most of the chief inspectors of large American police departments seem to spring. Mackem looks like an Ivy League graduate instructor, blond, button-down, horn-rimmed, alert, with a Hong Kong Racquet Club tie to match his navy blazer. The pipe-smoking Roussos, in his flawlessly cut English tropicals, demonstrates what the French mean when they say distingué - the aging Charles Boyer plunked in a spy scenario, looking not so much the part of James Bond as his enigmatic superior, M. All three, follow WerBell's briefing with small nods and half smiles of approval.

WerBell talks on, his eyes on the pearl-grey ash of his cigar, his growly voice low. There's work to be done - lots of it. The day