14-00000

104-10173-10171
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: LESNICK MAX
201-209257
VOL. II.
INCLUSIVE DATES:
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:
DELETIONS, IF ANY:
ROOM:
THIRD AFENCY DOCUMEN
DATE DATE
RECEIVED RETURNED.
10:05 3/7/78
2:50
9 AUG 28
1LAU67%
12:10
REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
BETSY PALMER
PAT ORR
Betsy Palmer
P
will read
another time
NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE
LESNICK, MAX
201-209258

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000
23
1861
SECRET
ACTION: OG/PCD-7 (850) INFO: ODPD-D, RF, FILE, DORECORD,.
FRP!
DEFERRED TELEPOUCH
(10/W)
79-1972436
PAGE 001
TOR: 091842Z FEB 79.
1972436
SOOM 20190
SECRET 0917482 FEB 79 DEFERRED TELEPOUCH
CITE SANTO DOMINGO 20190
TO: WASHINGTON.
FOR: LA/COG INFO LA/CARIB.
SUBJECT: WNINTEL FGI EMPYREX TRACE-
1. EMPYREX (LIAISON) REQUESTS TRACESON MAX LESNICK
E. MENENDEZ, BORN 8 SEPT 1930, HAVANA, CUBA, JOURNALIST WHO IS
REQUESTING VISA TRAVEL DOM REP FOR BUSINESS TRIP. SUBJECT APPEARS
TO BE IDENTICAL WITH MAX EDGARDO LESNICK MENDEZ (201-209258)
CUIS PRINTOUT NO. 151438. STATION TRACES CONTAINED UFG-01709,
20 OCT 62 AND UFG-03590, 10 SEPT 63, INDICATE LESNICK ANTI-CASTRO
CUBAN EXILE BROADCASTER AND STATION IS PERPLEXED SUBJECT'S
INCLUSION IN CUIS.
2. INDEX: LESNICK. FILE: 201-209258. RVW 9 FEB 09,
DRV -0981.
END OF MESSAGE
SECRET

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000
SECRET
DO DOCUMENT EXTRACT:
THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CONCERNING THE SUBJECT OF THIS 201
DOSSIER HAS BEEN EXTRACTED FROM ANOTHER OFFICIAL DO FILE.
PERSONS PERFORMING NAME TRACES ARE CAUTIONED THAT THE DOCU-
MENT FROM WHICH THIS EXTRACT WAS PREPARED CONTAINS ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE SUBJECT AND SHOULD BE REQUESTED
FRCN IP/FILES.
LESNIK, MAX
201-0209258
SEX M
200-006-495/18
DTR-01586
13 JAN 78
TREA
P3.
CIRECTOR AND PUBLISER OF REPLICA, A SPANISH
MAGAZINE: PRINTED IN MIAMI
ATTENDED MEETING FOR PURPOSE OF CRGANIZING:
SECRET ANTI-CASTRO GROUP.
DATE 06 FEB 78
09517279
201-209258
SECRET
E2. IMPDET CL BY 054979:

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000
CABLES FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI
DATE: 16 NOVEMBER 1977
CLASSIFICATION:
SECRET
SUBJECT: CURAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES IN
THE U.S.; FCI CURA
DATE: 6 AUGUST 1977.
CIASSIFICATION: SECRET
SUBJECT: WILD STALLION; INTERNAL SECURITY
CUBA PANAMA

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000
FORM I-328A (REV. 10-1-74)
BIOGRAPHIC
INFORMATION
(Family name)
LESNICK
(First name)
Max
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
Immigration and Naturalization Service
(Middle name)
Menendez
ALL OTHER NAMES USED (including names by previous marriages)
FAMILY NAME
Lesnick
FIRST NAME
Samuel
Menendez Teresa
FATHER
MOTHER(Maiden name)
HUSBAND(I one, so state)
OR
FAMILY NAME
WIFE
(If wife, give maiden name)
Alvares
FORMER HUSBANDS OR WIVES(if one, so state)
FAMILY NAME (for wife, give maiden name)
MALE BIRTHDATE(M-Day-Yr.)
FEMALE 9/2/30
CITY AND COUNTRY OF BIRTH:
Vueltas, Cuba
DATE, CITY AND COUNTRY OF BIRTH(If known)
Poland 1903
Cuba, 1910
Form A:
OMB No 43 -
NATIONALITY
Cuban
ALIEN REGISTRATION NO.
A12 542 415
SOCIAL SECURITY NO.
261-72-9905
CITY AND COUNTRY OF RESIDENCE.
Santo Domingo, D. Republic
Miami, Fla
FIRST NAME BIRTHDATE CITY & COUNTRY OF BIRTH
DATE OF MARRIAGE PLACE OF MARRIAGE
12/29/55
Miriam 3/26/32 Havana, Cuba 12/29/55
none
FIRST NAME
Havana,
BIRTHDATE DATE & PLACE OF MARRIAGE DATE AND PLACE OF TERMINATION OF MARRIAGE
APPLICANT'S RESIDENCE LAST FIVE YEARS. LIST PRESENT ADDRESS FIRST.
FROM
TO
STREET AND NUM.A
CITY
5530 Sardina
1730 Pizarro
2122 S. 22 Terr.
C. Gables
C. Gables
Miami
PROVINCE OR STATE
Pla
COUNTRY
MONTH
YEAR
MONTH
YEAR
Pla.
Pla.
U.S.A.
U.S.A.
U.S.A.
Jan
Jan
75
73
PRESENT TIME
Jan. 75
March 66
Jan.
7.3
APPLICANT'S LAST ADDRESS OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES OF MORE THAN ONE YEAR
STREET AND NUMBER
Banos 205.
CITY
Havana
PROVINCE OR STATE
Havana
COUNTRY
Cuba
OCCUPATION SPECIFIC
President
APPLICANTS EMPLOYMENT LAST FIVE YEARS (IF NONE, SO STATE FLIST PRESENT EMPLOYMENT FIRST
FULL NAME AND ADDRESS OF EMPLOYER
2994 N-W 7 St. Miami, Fla. 33125
Replica Publishing, Inc.
FROM
TO
MONTH
YEAR
MONTH
55'
Jan
FROM
TO
MONTH YEAR
Oct. 67
YEAR
61
YEAR
MONTH
PRESENT TIME
NAI TO CSCI-3/764/464 DATED 27 MARCH 1961, SUBJECT: LESNIK--MENENDEZ MAX
PREVIOUSLY SENT TO YOUR SERVICE. ALSO REFER TO THE FBI.
Show below last occupation abroad if not shown above. (Include all information requested above.)
Cadena Oriental de Radio, Havana, Cuba commentator
THIS FORM IS SUBMITTED IN CONNECTION WITH APPLICATION FOR SIGNATURE
NATURALIZATION
ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS
PETITION
12 May 1977
RFB
59 Aug 60
DATE
OTHER SPECIFI
OUR NATIVE AUDIO AURAM LETTERS TOURAN YOUR NATIVE ALPACT IN THE
Are all copies legible?
Yes
PENALTIES SEVERE PENALTIES ARE PROVIDED BY LAW FOR KNOWINGLY, AND WILLFULLY FALSIFTING OR CONCEALING A MATERIAL FACT,
APPLICANT: BE SURE TO PUT YOUR NAME AND ALIEN REGISTRATION NUMBER IN
THE BOX OUTLINED BY HEAVY BORDER BELOW.
COMPLETE THIS BOX (Family name)
LESHICK-
(Given name)
(OTHER AGENCY USE)
(Middle name)
(Alien registration number)
5424416
INS USE (Office of Origin)
OFFICE CODE:
TYPE OF CASE:
DATE:
-4859
Sic...
MIA.
T.C..
APR 28 1977
401-209258

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000
ALIGN FIRST LETTER IN THIS DUA.
OUTGOING MESSAGE
SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY
MOC
IFE IN URU ALIQI
SECRET
MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR
STAFF
CONF:
975
INFO: FILE
DATE-TIME GROUP
CITE
012017Z DIRECTOR
9957164
TO: PRIORITY PANAMA CITY INFO LA/MIAMI.
WNINTEL RYBAT PERAMPART MHSPIKE
REFS: A. DIRECTOR 934495
MESSAGE REFERENCE UNDER
936139
NO INDEZ
RETURN TO
DISSEM BY:
PER
FILES
jana 8228
F
B. DIRECTOR 933847
PANAMA CITY 38750 IN 076237
C.
LAPNE/P
THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION (LESS 201'S) MAY BE PASSED TO THE
ITS INTERNAL
470TH FOR INFOONLY:
“ALDO INOCENCIO VERA SERAFIN (201-0326634) DPOB
28 JULY, 1928, CAIBARIEN, LAS VILLAS, CUBA. FORMER UNDERGROUND LEADER
AGAINST BATISTA 1955-59 AND PROMINENT MEMBER IN 26TH OF JULY
MOVEMENT: HELD SEVERAL POSITIONS IN CASTRO'S EARLY REVOLUTIONARY
GOVERNMENT INCLUDING THAT OF CHIEF OF THE TECHNICAL INVESTIGATIONS
DEPARTMENT (DTI), THE MAIN INTELLIGENCE ORGAN OF THE CUBAN NATIONAL
POLICE. ARRIVED IN U.S. WITH WIFE AND BABY AS A REFUGEE ON 13 MARCH
1961. ISSUED PERMANENT U.S. ALIEN REGISTRATION NO. A-12-466-223 IN
JUNE 1955. IN 1972 MOVED TO PUERTO RICO. VERA WAS VERY ACTIVE IN
ANTI-CASTRO.
CUBAN EXILE GROUPS UP UNTIL THE TIME HE WAS KILLED BY UNKNOWN
ASSAI ANTS ON 25 OCTOBER 1976 IN SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO.
DATE:
ORIG:.
UNIT:
EXT:
B 2012326634
RECORD COPY
RELEASING OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFICERS
CLASSIFICATION
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
201-209258
1772476
AUTHENTICATED OFFICER
E 2
CL BY:
IMPDET

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000
+00
-
OUTGOING MESSAGE
SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY
ACP
CLA
SECRET
MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR
STAFF
CONF:
TOB
MRO
OF
น
0
ru
2
INFO: FILE
DATE-TIME GROUP
MESSAGE REPECHE MUNDER
DIRECTOR
936139
DISSEM BY:
RETURN TO
PER
FILES
B. MAX EDGARDO
LESNICK (201-0209258) DPOB 8 SEPT
1930, VUELTAS LAS VILLAS, CUBA. FLED TO U.S. IN JANUARY 1961.
ISSUED PERMANENT U.S. ALIEN REGISTRATION NO. A-12-542-416 IN JANUARY
1961. HAS BEEN THE PUBLISHER OF THE SMALL EXILE NEWSPAPER "REPLICA"
IN MIAMI SINCE 1963 AND A COMMENTATOR FOR A DAILY NEWS PROGRAM. "RADIO
ANTI-CASTRO
REPLICA" SINCE 1964. INVOLVED WITH SEVERAL CUBAN EXILE GROUPS.
INTERNAL
A
2.
ADDEE INFO ONLY:
A. THERE ARE NUMEROUS FBI REPORTS ON VERA AND HIS ACTIVITIES
WHILE A MEMBER OF VARIOUS EXILE GROUPS AND ESPECIALLY CONCERNING
VERA'S INVOLVEMENT WITH THE GROUP ACCIÓN CUBANA (AC), WHICH IS A
SMALL CUBAN EXILE TERRORIST GROUP HEADED BY ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA AND
WHICH HAS CLAIMED CREDIT FOR A NUMBER OF BOMBINGS AGAINST CUBAN
EMBASSIES AND CONSULATES. BKHERALD HAS HAD CONTACT WITH VERA OFF-AND-
ON SINCE 1964. BESIDES THE CONTACT DESCRIBED IN REF B VERA WAS
BEING CONSIDERED IN 1964 FOR THE AMWORLD PROGRAM, BUT THIS DID NOT
MATERIALIZE. AN INTERESTING NOTE IS FACT THAT VERA WAS REGISTERED BY
THE ARMY WITH ISR FOR THE PERIODS JANUARY JULY 1964 AND AUGUST 1964-
APRIL 1966, BOTH TIMES BEING DROPPED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
-
DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:
RELEASING OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFERS
UTHENTICATING OFFICER
CLASSIFICATION
REPRODUC.
BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PR
ЗІТЕО
E 2
IMPDET
SECRET
CL BY:
007255

--- Page 8 ---

14-00000
OUTGOING MESSAGE
SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY
<<>
ACP
''
TOO
SECRET
SANDLING MACH
STAFF
CONF:
نا
:3
INFO: FILE
G
DATE-THE GROUP
MESSAGE REFERENCE UNDER
DIRECTOR
936139
INDEX
DISSEM BY:
NO INDES
RETURN TO
PER
CONCERNING LESNICK, SEVERAL FBI REPORTS INDICATE LESNICK
WAS ASSOCIATED WITH ORLANDO BOSCH AND WAS INVOLVED IN AND. SUPPORTED A
NUMBER OF CUBAN EXILE REVOLUTIONARY GROUPS' TERRORIST ACTIVITIES.
ANOTHER FSI REPORT INDICATED THAT LESNICK RECEIVED MONEY FROM PANAMA
IN CONNECTION WITH NARCOTICS TRAFFIC AND ALLEGEDLY, WAS RESPONSIBLE
FOR THE ARREST IN PANAMA OF GABRIEL GREGORIO RODRIGUEZ, WHO WAS
SUSPECTED OF PLOTTING AGAINST THE TORRIJOS GOVERNMENT IN PANAMA. THE
LATEST FBI INFÓ ON LESNICK RECEIVED IN SEPTEMBER 1974 REPORTED THAT
LESNIČK AND ORLANDO BOSCH WERE NO LONGER COOPERATING BECAUSE OF AN
ARGUMENT OVER MONEY. LESNICK WAS ONCE CONTACTED BY THE HAVANA.
STATION IN AUGUST 1957 AS PART OF THAT STATION'S LONG RANGE
DEVELOPMENT OF OPS ASSETS. THERE IS NO INDICATION OF ANY FURTHER
OPERATIONAL INTEREST.
4. FILE: 201-0209258, 20120326634,
E2 IMPDET.
LA COMMENT: A. INDICATED TRACES ON VERA AND LESNICK WOULD FOLLOW
SEPARATELY.
INFORMED ADDEES OF ASSASSINATION OF VERA ON 25 OCTOBER
1976 AND GAVE BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF AGENCY CONTACT WITH.
VERA
DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:
ELS CARCER
COORDINATING OFFICERS
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
CLASSIFICATION
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
E 2
CL BY:
IMPDET

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000
:
OUTGOING MESSAGE
SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY
5
SECRET
MAG HANDLING INDICATOR
STAFF
CONF:
!
AGENCE
INFO: FILE
CITO
DATE-TIME GROUP
DIRECTOR
936139
MOK
NO NIDES
RETURN TO
FREE
DISSEN BY:
PER
C. REQUESTED TRACES ON VERA AND LESNICK AND ASKED HQS
INDICATE WHAT INFO COULD BE PASSED TO THE 470TH.
DC/LA/COG
W. MURRAY
IN DRAFT}
C/LA/CAR

AC/CI/OG/AT
Staring money
AGC/DDO Arlan
PCS/LSN/MIL,
-przy
PCS/ITG sy
DATE:
29 OCTOBER 1976
Beatle ha
MEH
LESLIE BRUDZINSKI PAULETTE
LA/PNC/PA
ORIG
UNIY:
EXT:
1454
RELEASING OFFICER
LASSWA
SECRET
Beridda
AC/LA/PNC
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
IMPDET
CL BY007255
COORDINATING OFFÑEAS
REPRODUC
BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PF
BITED
• 2

--- Page 10 ---

14-00000
0
CLASSIFICATION
A64
0
SIGNAL CENTERUSE CARLY
Co
0
acé
0
108
MESSAGE
0-
100
37-2
0
440
PAGE
DADES
SECRET
AGENDAS INDICATOR
STAFF
CONF:
6/475
DATE GROUP
Ene
281947Z DIRECTOR
INFO: Tec/1/on), c/230/10, 1/2321/mn
FILE
DDO 3, 200/00, 4/04/. NART 6/6/3/1764 /014 2/156
TO: PRIORITY PANAMA CITY INFO-LA/MIAMI.
UNINTEL RYBAT HYEPOCH MHSPIKE
REFS:
30
A - PANAMA CITY 38780 IN 0787451
B.
PANAMA CITY 38750 IN 0762371
C. DIRECTOR 931692
MESSAGE REFERENCE
0 moes
0 noi
934495
BY: 27
DISSEM BY
0 RETURN TO PER
166/000
SIAZ cops
6/15/1862,
/NEG
CHRONO
HEADQUARTERS IN PROCESS OF NOTIFYING DEA OF FBI REQUEST
DESCRIBED REF C FURTHERMORE, WE RECOMMENDING TO DEA THAT SINCE
ALDEREGUIA IS A REGISTERED DEA CI THEY MAY WISH INFORM FBI OF THEIR
INTEREST, IF THEY HAVE NOT DONE SO ALREADY.
2.
NO HEADQUARTERS TRACES ON, OCHOA AND; MAYO. TRACES ON. ALDO
VERA (201-0326634) AND MAX LESNICK (201-0209258) FOLLOW SEPARATELY
MOSTLY
BUT WILL BE FOR STATION USE ONLY, A CONSIDERABLE AMOUNT OF INFO IS
FROM FBI AND MAY NOT BE PASSED TO 470TH WITHOUT PRIOR APPROVAL OF FBI.
FBI AND
BECAUSE OF NUMBER OF DOCUMENTS AND INFORMATION INVOLVED IT WOULD BE
BETTER IF 470TH MADE OWN QUERY TO FBI FOR THIS INFORMATION. BELIEVE
IN FUTURE THAT ANY SUCH REQUESTS FROM 470TH FOR INFORMATION SHOULD
BE DIRECTED THROUGH THEIR OWN COMMUNICATIONS CHANNELS TO THE FBI
SYNCË HË ARE NOT AT LIBERTY TO DIVULGE TO. ONE AGENCY INFORMATION
DATE:
GRIG:
UNIT:
EXT:
LES Nick 201
RELEASING OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFICERS
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
CLASSIFICA Po
SECRET
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
E 2
CL BY
IMPDET
Xan!

--- Page 11 ---

14-00000
E
OMF 0
CLASSIFICATION
:
OUTGOING MESSAGE
↑
S.E CRET
GIONAL CENTERUSE ONLY
0.0
HANDLING DICATOR
0
ALP
1PO
0
0
STAFF
CONF:
INFO: FILE
DATE-TIME GAVE
EITB
MESSAGE REFERENCE NAMEST
DIRECTOR
9344950
103
DISSEM BY:
PER
0
#
FROM ANOTHER.
MOREOVER, SINCE INDIVIDUALS MENTIONED REF B ARE U.S.
PERSONS, DIRECT COMMUNICATION BETWEEN THE 470TH AND THE FBI
PARTICULARLY DESIRABLE.
3. FILE:
LA COMMENT:
A.
ENT B
B..
201-281197, 56-2-4, 56-8-11. E2 IMPDET.
DC/LA/COG
PCS/LSN/ID
PCS/LSN/MIL
STATION ASKS IF FBI HAS BEEN INFORMED THAT ALDEREGUIA
IAS REGISTERED. IN ISR AS SOURCE OF DEA.
REQUESTS TRACES ON CUBAN EXILES CONNIE OCHOA,
ALDO VERA, MAX LESNICH AND FNU MAYO.
1.
NOTIFIES ADDEES THAT IN RESPONSE TO HEADQUARTERS
MEMO TO FBI ON ACTIVITIES OF ALDEREGUIA FBI WISHES
INITIATE DISCREET INVESTIGATION OF ALDEREGUIA'S
ACTIVITIES IN U.S. ADVISES HEADQUARTERS GIVING SUCH
CONCURRENCE.
. W. MURRAY
!
(IN DRAFT
C. ENRIGHT
(IN DRAFT}
FRANTZ
<IN DRAFT)
PCS/NC
N. DAVIS.
(IN DRAFT)
REBBªØPCS/ITC
P PLUMB
CIN DRAFT).
AC/CI/OG/AT
H. ARCHERS
(IN DRAFTY
AGC/DDO
∙A.E. GOLDIN
(IN DRAFT}
C/LA/CAR
DATE:
28 OCTOBER 1976
'ORIG
LA/PNC/PA
EXT:
1454
UNIT: LESLIE BRUDZINSKI:MEH
J.Lain
RELEASH OFFICIA
CLASSIFICATION
CODATIOFFIC
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
F
Beradaliny
LA/PNC
AUTHENTICATES OFFICE

--- Page 12 ---

14-00000
i
-1
Close C/SIA - Z COUNT: 2
SYSPE CHA, CDO, CSRF DCI (FAR), DD03 Didoo, giss
44 1
PAGE 1
IN TP 73.62
TO
38795
E. C. R.
2021323 CT 76 STAFF
CITER PANAMA CITY 38795
TO : CHECTO INFO
INTEL A PYEPOCH INTEL
:
RENTL NEW
ON 26 OCTOBER HYPOTESTATION OR GA
ALLEGED CUBAN TERRORIST ACTIVITY FROM AN
SOURCE OF 176-Ë EN MIAMI, REPORT PS NOT DATE, BUT G\/G-2 DAT
STAMP INDICATES THEW RECEIVED
WRITER, IS NOT IDENTIFIED IN
ON 02 OCTCHER.
EVEN THO
ITTEN DOCUMENT, PROVIDES
ADDRESS AND PHONE NUMBERS IN AN AREA WHICH SHOULD MAKE HIS
IDENTIFICATION FEAS: LE. WRITER EARS TO SETOR OF
PASCO SA
1230 W TWENTY-THIRD STREET,
844, WITH
566-7345 (OFFICE); 866-2 (HONE) AND ADDITIONAL PHONET,
854-4231
NOTATION (MY HOUS
NETHAVE NO IDEA HOW.
EMMA COULD HAVE
BROUGHT IT FRUN
THE S
MIS SERVIJES
2. PRESUMABLY TO ESTABLISH HIS BONN BIES AND śbęsta
HTS ACCESS TO INFO OF VALUE TO PANAMANIANS, WRITER SUBMITTED
LENGTRY REPORT ON ALLEGED RECEPT AN EXIVE ACTIVITY
ET

--- Page 13 ---

14-00000
OTHER THAT
PONCING VICE IS Puchong
IN 080362
PACY 36795
BY LONG LIST OF SUN extLe soners.
ALLEGATIO OF CIA INVOLVMENT IN THIS ACTIVITY.
ORLANDO, BOSCH IS UNDER ARREST IN VENERUELA, TOGETHER WITH LUIS
BOSOM WAS TRAVELING ONE COSTA
SPORT AND ALSO HAD NICARAGUA, INTOAN AND CHILEAN
RP LISTS #05
AS MANUEL BO
(DESISED AS CLOSE TO GENERAL ANASTAS TO SAYORLANDO NUNEZ
IN COSTA RICA;
DESCRIBED AS EXQUE NO WORKED FOR VENE UE LA ‘S
DIGEROL, FOR EIGHT YEARS AND THEN DATAN
PRIVATE
NEGENCY
ORDINGÒ TO THE WRITER,
ACTIONS
SPECT OR
COMMUNISTS.
HÈ CENT
ASSISTED
TRIP TO VENEZ
AS AN ATTEMTo serrug the
"

--- Page 14 ---

14-00000
2335
PAGE
IN 2523.02.
TOR:2622032 OCT 76
PACY 38.795
NOVEMBER 75 TO MOUNT A SERIES OF
CUBAN
EMBASSIES, IN
AL AND
AMERICA.
16 NOT ENTIRELY CLEAR FROM TEXT
APPEARS PITER
VIVIAN FERNAND DE CA
CALLED TO TRAVEL TO PANAMA SINCE SHE WAS
JAILED IN
READY SERVE D
HER SEXTANCET SENANCE WOULD THEN TRAVEL FOR ANIMATO WAST
WERE SENSE OF SERV
WRITER CLAIMS
PANAMA
THE RECENT UNREST - THERE, ARIAS WAS
HAVE BE
FLOWN BY JOE MEROLA, AN AMERICAN WHO IS WELL KNOWN TO ŠUBAN GOVERN
MENTORY JOE MENGLA, AND ROCÂNDO MARTINEE, WHO ARE IN CONTACT WITH 01,
WILL INTRODUCH THE WRITER TO ARIAS THUS IMPROVING WINTER'S ACCESS
TO ARIAS ANG IS OF INTEREST TO PANAMANIANS.
STATION POUCHING CORY OF ALLEGED CUBAN EXIL
E2 IMPORT
S E CRE T

--- Page 15 ---

14-00000
STAFF
814488
PAGE 1
IN 076237
09:2112392 CCT 76
PACY
36752
S E CR
2
127 OCT 76 STAFF
CITE PANAMA CITY 38750
TO: PRIORITY LAYNIAME INFO DIRECTOR.
WNINTEL RYBA7 PSRAMPART
REF: PANAMA CITY 36585 C
)
Calan
478TH NIGP SUCCEEDED IN HOLDING OPS MEETING WITH SOURCE
301 NIGHT OF 19 OCT. IN COURSE OF THAT-DEBRIEFING, 301 REPORTED
FOLLOWING:
HE WAS SENT ALONE TO MIAMI, SM GN 6-2, LTC. NOR!
ON 14 OCT, RETURNED TO PANAHA NIGHT 15 OCT. HIS MISSION WAS TO
CONTACT SALVADOR ALDEREGUTA TO STAIN INFO ON CUBAN EXILE
ACTIVITY IN CONNECTION WITH SABOTAGE OF CUBANA AIRLINER OFF
3. 324 REACHED ALDEREGUIA THROUGH CUBAN EXILE FEMALE
NAMED CONNTE, OCH GAY WHO FUNCTIONS AS MISTRESS TO. BOTH 301 AND
ALDEREGUA AUDEREGUIAL
AT NAMED, CUBANA EXILES ALDO
DO VERA AND (ENU)
MAYOGYA VETERINARIAN, AS HAVING HAD ROLE IN SABOTAGE OPERATION,
PUSATO PRINCIPAL FIGURE WAS ORLANDO BOSCH, ALDEREGUIA, SAID.
THAT BOSICÃ AD GONE TO MIGURAGUA WHERE ANASTAS TO SONCE AT GAVE
UNSPECIFIED AMOUNT OF MONEY TO MOUNT OPERATION.
BOSCH PROCEEDED

--- Page 16 ---

14-00000
RE
FILE
VP
KEPRODUCTION
ISSING OFFICE IS PROHIBIC:
STAFF
12
EIA482
7 320252
PAGE 2
TOR:2112392 CCT 76
IN 276237
PACY - 38752
TO CARACAS, TO CARRY IT OUT. (ALDEREGUIA ALSO NAMED CUBAN EXILE
AX LESNICH AS BEING IMPLICATED IN OPERATION.
AFTER 381 RETURNED TO PANAMA, HE WAS INVITED TO DINNER
AT HOME OF AMADO PADRON, KNOWN CUBAN INTEL OFFICER IN CUSAN EMBASSY
PANAMA CITY, NIGHT 18 OCT. CUBAN AMBASSADOR GARCIAL WAS ALSO PRESENT.
GARCIA PRAISED 381 EFFUSIVELY FOR PREVIOUS INFO 331 HAD PROVIDED TO
CUBANS FROM MIAMI EXILE CONTACTS. GARCIA SAID THAT FIDEL CASTRO
:
USED IT EXTENSIVELY IN PREPARING HIS 15 OCT SPEECH.
321 WILL BE ASKED BY NORIEGA TO GO TO MIAMI AGAIN IN
NEAR FUTURE, PROBABLY FOR FURTHER INVESTIGATION ON SAME SUBJECT.
2 + IF 321 GOES TO MIAMI AGAIN 470TH WILL SEND STUDLEY TO
MEET HIM THERE TO MONITOR HIS CONTACTS WITH EXILE COMMUNITY.
WITH 301 IS MUCH EASIER IN MIAMI THÂN IN PANAMAT
CONTACT
470TH WILL INFORM
FBI AS REQUIRED BY COORDINATION RULES. WOULD APPRECIATE MIAMI
STATION ASSISTANCE TO STUDLEY, IF REQUIRED. MIGHT BE ESPECIALLY
HELPFUL IF MIAMI CAN PROVIDE RAPID LOCAL TRACES ON NAMES THAT HE'
GETS FROM-302,
.3. STATION TRACES ON OCHOA AND MAYO NEGATIVEL NAME ALDO VERA
IS ON CURRENT ON G-2 WATCHLIST, IDENTIFIE: AS PUERTO RICAN RESIDENT
AND "DANGEROUS". DO NOT KNOW WHETHER THIS IDENTICAL TO SAME NAME
SECRE
54

--- Page 17 ---

14-00000
7 320052
FALE
ין
:
:
PAGE 23-23
TOR: 211239 OCT 76
ington
3 ...
istoricE IS PROHIBI
STAFF
IN 076237
PACY 38752.
IN PARA 29 ABOVE BUT SELIEVE, IT LIKELY.
MAX LESNICH IS ALMOST
CERT INLY EDITOR OF "REPLICA" MAGAZINE IN 1974 AND SUBJECT OF
LENGTHY MIAMI FBI REPORT DATED 25-SEPT. 74 (FSI FILE NO. 105-3492)
DEALING WITH ENNITIES WITHIN MIAMI EXILE COMMUNITY.
4. REQUEST ADDRESSEE TRACES ON OCHOA, VERA, MAYO AND..
LESNICK. PLEASE INDICATE WHAT INFO MAY BE PASSED TO.473TH.
5, FILE: 55-2-46 201-0933215.
2 IMPOET
RE
§ 5
MET
M

--- Page 18 ---

14-00000
AN UN..
C/CAS
5N
J
RF FILE
VR
HE PRODUCTOS
SECRET
EN
ISNUING TOFFICE IS PROHIBI
STAFF.
10
T 32 26 43
E1 A3 57
PAGE 01-21
IN 276521
TOR: 2115542 OCT 76
LMIM
25518:
SECRET 2115462 OCT: 76 STAFF
CITE LAYMIAMI 25518
TO: PRIORITY PANAMA CITY INFO DIRECTOR.
WN INTEL RYSAT PERAMPART
REF:
PANAMA CITY 38750
(14076237)
1 ONLY STATION TRACES ON: SUBJECTS REF ARE ON ALDO
.
VERA
SERAFIN, WHO INEOLVED WITH HAITIAN/ CUBAN EXILE GROUPS
PLANNING INVASION OF HAITI IN 19661 (MAY PASS 472TH).
2, WISH REMIND PANAMA CITY, LA/MIAMI STATION RECORDS AND
=
FILES ON CUBAN EXILES ARE VERY LIMITED AND THEREFORE ANY ASSISTANCE.
WE PROVIDE 470TH REPS WOULD NOT BE AS MEANINGRUL AS HOS TRACES.
3, FILE: 55-2-4, 281-8933215.
E2 IMP DET
SECRET

--- Page 19 ---

14-00000
SEA A LLD La
I LULA, LAS VILLAST VUELTA'S
CE CUBA
224 7
100-009-014
NO MAK to
P2
EMIGRE IN MIAMI. CHARTER MOR, AND MOR
CF FOREIGN RELATIONS COMMITTEL OF CLEP.
FLE INDEX UNLY
KESKICK," "AX
201-0209253
019-300-02
56919-21546
17 APR 74
STUNED AS ONL OF LEADERS OF FRENTE DE LIB-
FRACIN NACIONAL DE CUBA.
DATE
LESNIK, Max
Q50
09108246
201-07337
LX-3380
4% CQC 7:
CUBA
Subj reportedly in SNTO working on anti-Castro
Radio program broadcast over Radio Caribe. but
doubt seriously he is being considered as
Director, especially in view of his Cuban
nationality.
(SNTO-1366, 18 Mar 63, IN-88859)

--- Page 20 ---

14-00000
X
006 2
019-300-003
LEG-01702
20 out
WAVE-00110
Pl
PLATED A SHORTWAVE BROADCAST OF RECENT.
ALPHA ATTACK FROM JANTO DOMINGO ON 12 OCT
62. SOURCE OF ANDT-119.
#100
A
ELD INDEX QUE
553
ity in not.
www sho are close friend,
Juventut Orindoso, group 30)3
South
Whop of halliteo of tet. no Youth
Orcuitionist here, fol and leaveti
Alm at the rented in sional.
BY → gare, r » Yursor_