14-00000
104-10123-10020

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ER WILL CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOP AND BOTTOM
UNCLASSIFIED * CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

| NAME AND ADDRESS | DATE | INITIALS |
|---|---|---|
| Sarah Hall | 15/69 | SH |

ACTION
APPROVAL
COMMENT
DIRECT REPLY
DISPATCH
FILE
CONCURRENCE ☑ INFORMATION

Remarks:
Copy
Sarah,
PREPARE REPLY
RECOMMENDATION
RETURN
SIGNATURE
You may have rei'd attch fwx, if not, you're welcome to this F. Y. files.

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.
rush 03 10-11

UNCLASSIFIED
1-67

FORM NO. 237
Use previous editions (40)

DATE
4-3-69
CONFIDENTIAL ☑ SECRET

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

1/BR

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY ☑ ISSUED SLOTTED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
TOTAL COPIES

GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
(When Filled In)

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY

INDEX: ☐ YES ☐ NO

DISSEM BY

ACTION
EUR6
INFO:
RID COPY
FILE, VR,

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
X-REF TO FILE NO.

BRANCH ☐ DESTROY SIG.

BIJAN, Nap, Anne, spores, 01/065,C1/107, c/RA, CAS, CA/26
SECUR 4, PCSZ

SECRET 280751Z CITE ZURICH
28 Feb 69

PRIORITY DIRECTOR, BERN

IN 03310

INK MHORDER WOM USE

REFS:
A. DIRECTOR 06625 JUNE 1968
B. ZURICH 1331 (IN 25955)

1. CONSULATE WILL BE REPORTING ON VIA STATE CHANNELS ON VISIT
TO CONSULATE 27 FEB OF RICHARD CASE NAGELL, AKA JOE CRAMER, JOE CRANE,
ROBERT C. NOLAN 261-746537. HE WAS INTERVIEWING CONSUL THAT
UNLESS PROMISES MADE TO HIM BY US OFFICIALS WERE HONORED HE WOULD
REVEAL TO THE PRESS ENTIRE STORY OF HIS ALLEGED CONTACTS WITH WOFIRM
AND WOULD EXPOSE INDIVIDUALS WITH WHOM HE HAD DEALT IN THE
ORGANIZATION.

2. UNLESS ADVISED TO CONTRARY BASE WILL, AS IT HAS IN THE PAST,
LEAVE THIS MATTER STRICTLY TO CONSULATE. BERN PLEASE ADVISE LNER GO.

3. MOST RECENT STATE MESSAGE WAS US MISSION BERLIN 2567 OF 26 OCTOBER 68.

SECRET
