14-00000

104-10179-10113 [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only.
Do Not Reproduce

DISPATCH

Chief, Task Force
Chief of Station, JM/WAVE
Operational/TROSS/AUBESK
Minaglasel

ACTION REQUIRED: None; FYI

1. Subject was removed from CAC on 3/6/63
to a safe site where he was debriefed. One
of the debriefing was to ascertain the Sn. oor.
Cuba and determining if he had any relations i.
any other Security organization.

2. During the course of the debriefing the subject is
to be willing to cooperate and there were no indications of
attempt of deception. However, it is believed that the subject is
a sharp operator, an opportunist and an individual
with tie. He is very verbose, loud and attempts to mislead
at all times.

3. CRELLANA claims that he had no relations:
Cuban C-2, that he knew Pasiro VALOL), Chief of the
FINEIRO, Deputy Chief of the G-2, but that he never did
business with these. Stated that he knew Raul and
sight but never knew their names. He feels that the
members of the C-2 are Communists and individuals of
caliber.

4. Subject was granted asylum in the Uruguayan
April 1952, which was obtained through the
*RODRIGUEZ, leader of the Chauffeurs Union.
In 1961 he was engaged in the transportation of material
from Habana to the "sünde frente" in the lacaz ray
According to Subject, at that time he was connected
Services.
to,
06, the Province of Santa Clara.
08 Captain (fru) SALAS Llfo BALASDA
*GUTIEªBLZ Haruyn, five (Captain Raul
PARALELA According to Subject, an individual cases
was arrested in March 1962 and during the course of his
Attachments herewith
History
Distribution:
- C/T w/att
Monti
18 Sect
anuel
any
11
06108
Fernando
in
5/PV
SECRET

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

by the Security Service, before the subject. In view
Subject. In view of this, TERMULA admitted that during the
opened in repetitions for the language di
latina, during the months of Sept.
in Los Angeles, California where he that
purchasing acas fook » Juan ATV,
Los divers de said than to aid not purchase
EQIAGA but that he did make arrangements for
elements have are from
the Subject have engaged in other
he did not mention.
This deduction is and on t
tati
provide the attached Personal History
his travel and the short, term jobs he held in the past.

5. Subject also admitted that he was arrested on
1961 by the DTL because of his connection with a y
in the purchase and use of 265. 5
According to Subject, he was engaged in the purchase
endeavored to take out of the country.

6. From
" WAR
e of
tanti
that
en which
novation
rayling
26 April
red
Gr..
- iritu
"
sandciates,
Vicente Best
L Hernandex and
were arrested by the Security Services, elle,
RODRIQUIZ informed the de
the whereabouts of RAMOS.
reca
und.
Barricas that the
Subject at the fed and asked to
provide the address of RAMOS.
AMGS
and after being held for four days he was Naked out
RODRIGUEZ, who were released a few days before the
Subject.

7. Subject denies any association with
the
C-2 or any other Security Service,
Communism and is willing to do anything to
Communism and liberate Cuba.
interest and was returned to for
does not contemplate any future con

8. JM/WAVE traces reflect the following
of the individuals mentioned:

a. Eley GUTIERREZ
Subject of 201-283349; 19
19:1;
that từn
C
a
J
gust
1961.
11511 September Mil; and

b. Aurelio Steve
SILVA, former weaver of Cuban Katonal
19 Juna 1351.
Deninge - Probably
HERDEZ mentioned in K-284, 24 September
General Genove Davera
Identical with Genevavo PEREZ Parra, one-t
the Cuban Army. Sng PNIA-550, 20 t
There are no identifiable m
sectioned in this dispatch.
19531
END OF DISPATCH
ARMS
Purg
n
