14-00000
104-1029 1-10003 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
APY SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

SECRET
FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: WIROGUE
INCLUSIVE DATES: 24 July 59 - 27 July 1961
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: OP
ROOM: 5E1B
DELETIONS, IF ANY:
DATE RECEIVED
DATE RETURNED
REVIEWED BY (PRINT INITIALS)
SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE
MAYCRINK, Ernest G.

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000
DISPATCH
RLS MA
ROM
A SECRET
Gist of Station, Leopoldville
Duty of Accountability Ernest G. Maycrink
ACTION BEDRO
DAFI
B435-CHECK YONE
MARKED FOR INDELING
NO INDEƠNG. FOLD
BOXING CAN READGED
BY QUAURED NO DESK ONLY.
28 July 1961
Attachment to 1.
Receipt for $109, n/w
Advances authorized
10 mile for use of his personal car
@.19 equals 1.90 leasing ROQUE
(See attachment).
1. VISCOUS was paid his June salary of $500 in 26 June and
also his housing fee July ($250.00). (Station was notified on
1 July 1961 for VIRGUS to return to PBPIJWE).
July rental loss used in the final weeks of the lease for the
actual damages claimed by local landlords and is lieu of 19 days
eviction notice. Receipt attached and Vouchers 2158.
Accountability in the amount of U.S. $100.00 is herewith
referred to Headquarters plus a credit of $1,112.85. As MINOGUE
officially told he would have to save for the above $100.00
for living/traveling expenses since he did not subtract that cost
from his credit.
Angola B. Dearlesto
18 July 1961
Distribution:
b, v/a n/a
Thysville certification by Outhon, h/v
Coquilhatville estimate, h/v
Breakdown of advances and accountings, h/v
Cippians

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

September 1961
You are formally notified that said contract will be terminated
by the Government as of 1 September 1961. You are reminded of the contents
par. (1) of it, which reads as follows:
"11. All information related to this agreement
conveyed through instructions, this instrument, or otherwise, in
secret and shall not be divulged to any person, organization or
government in any form or manner, except as authorized by the
undersigned Contracting Officer executing this agreement. It is
agreed that any revelation whatsoever of the above information
will constitute and be an immediate and final breach of this
agreement & will result in forfeiture by you of any and all
benefits which may then have accrued to you by reason of this."

You are herein authorized to sign a full release and discharge
to the United States Government and any agency department or instrumentali-
ty thereof, of and from any and all claims, demands, actions, and causes of
action, for or on account of or in respect of any matter or thing whatsoever
to this date.

You are herein authorized to sign a full release and discharge
to the United States Government and any agency department or instrumentali-
ty thereof, of and from any and all claims, demands, actions, and causes of
action, for or on account of or in respect of any matter or thing whatsoever
to this date.

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Africa Division
SUBJECT: Termination of Ernest G. Maycrink
1. Approval is herewith requested to release, terminate and
make a final payment of $2000.00 to Subject. In return
for this Subject will be required to sign a full release and Secrecy
agreement.
2. It is presently planned to relocate subject in Europe, with
the Office of Security transporting subject via MATS as far as Frank-
furt, from whence he will proceed to any Western European country of
his choice and at his expense. The $2000 payment will constitute
his only assets until he can find gainful employment.
3. There are adequate funds available to the project to cover the
termination bonus and transportation to Frankfurt via MATS.
4. Approval is also requested to write off and charge to expense
the $6000.00 sum, the remainder of which approximately $500.00 is
still outstanding.

Approved:
Amount requested in paragraph one
approved for payment. Based
upon cover and operational circum-
stances, payment is not subject to
Federal Income taxes.

Special Contracting Officer

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000

Mr. Ernest G. Maycrink
Dear Mr. Maycrink:

Effective 31 October 1960, all contracts, oral or written, by and between
you and the United States Government, as represented by the Contracting
Officer, are hereby terminated by mutual consent of the parties thereto, and
in lieu thereof the following agreement is substituted.

The United States Government, as represented by the Contracting Officer,
hereby contracts with you as an independent contractor for the submission of
certain information and related services of a confidential nature under the
following terms and conditions:

1. Compensation. In full consideration for the submission of such infor-
mation and service, you will receive from the Government, payable in such
an approved manner as you may direct in writing, the following:
(a) Basic compensation in an amount calculated at the rate of
$6000 per annum.
(b) Additional compensation in an amount calculated at the rate
of $3000 per annum for cost-of-living expenses (including
quarters), effective upon your arrival at and applicable only
to your contemplated permanent post of assignment overseas.
Quarters will not be furnished you nor will you accept quarters
provided by a cover facility without prior amendment of this
agreement.

2. Taxes. Monies paid you directly or guaranteed by the Government
under this paragraph constitute income for Federal tax purposes. You will
be advised as to the method to be followed in reporting and paying such taxes.
The method as well as the procedures used by this organization to imple-
ment its tax reporting responsibilities will be based primarily upon cover
and security requirements. You herein authorize this organization to with-
hold taxes on said income if it determines such requirements so necessitate.

3. Travel. You will be advanced or reimbursed funds for travel and
transportation expenses to and from your permanent post of duty overseas
and for authorized operational travel. You may be entitled to per diem in
lieu of subsistence during such travel and, when authorized, while on
temporary duty away from your permanent post of assignment. All travel,
transportation and per diem provided for under this paragraph must be
properly authorized, and expenses incurred hereunder are subject to pay-
ment and accounting in substantial compliance with Government regulations.

4. Operational Expenses. You will be advanced or reimbursed funds for
necessary operational expenses as specifically approved and financially limit-
ed by the Government. Such funds will be subject to payment and accounting
in substantial conformance with applicable Government regulations.

5. Repayment. It is recognized that your failure to account for or refund
any monies advanced you hereunder shall entitle the Government to withhold
the total amount of such indebtedness or any portion thereof from any monies
due you under the terms of this contract in such manner as it deems appro-
priate.

--- Page 6 ---

14-00000

6. Negotiated Benefits. (a) (1) If, in the performance of activities under
this agreement, you incur an injury or illness which is not the result of your
gross negligence, willful misconduct, or intemperate act, the Government
will provide medical, surgical, hospital, transportation and disability bene-
fits in such amounts and under such conditions as the Government in its sole
discretion deems proper provided, however, that such benefits shall not
exceed a total of $5000 for the same injury or illness.

(2) If you die in the performance of activities
hereunder and your death is not the result of your gross negligence, will-
misconduct or intemperate act, the Government will pay the sum of $5000
to your beneficiary(ies) less any amount paid to you under sub-paragraph
above if such injury or illness resulted in your death, provided that said
beneficiary(ies) is acceptable to the Government at the time such payment
is to be made. An acceptable beneficiary hereunder is an individual to whom
payment by the U.S. Government can be made without conflicting with its
avowed principles and ideals.

(b) Outstanding performance by you under this
agreement and your fulfillment of obligations hereunder in an efficient man-
ner will result in the Government undertaking your resettlement in an area
mutually agreeable to both parties, to the extent deemed appropriate by the
United States Government.

7. Execution of Documents. If, in the performance of services under
this contract, you assume the custody of Government funds or take title of
record to property of any nature whatsoever and wherever situate, which
property has in fact been purchased with monies of the U.S. Government,
you hereby recognize and acknowledge the existence of a trust relationship,
either express or constructive, and you agree to execute whatever docu-
ments may be required by this organization to evidence this relationship.

8. Status. You are not an employee of the United States Government
under this agreement and are not entitled to any benefits normally incident
to an employee status.

9. Funding. If necessary to protect the security of this arrangement,
monies due you hereunder may be funded in other than a direct manner. It
is understood and agreed that any monies so funded constitute payment by
the Government in satisfaction of its obligations under this agreement.

10. Cover. (a) It is anticipated that you will undertake a cover venture
in the course of your performance under this agreement. Such venture must
be approved by the appropriate Government representative overseeing your
activities prior to its initiation. Any and all documents which you may
execute in the course of said cover venture are subordinate to this agree-
ment and any contradiction in terms which in any way amplify, extend or
restrict your rights and/or obligations hereunder shall be resolved by this
agreement which shall always be dominant.

(b) To provide capital for your approved cover venture the
Government will loan you $4000 to be secured by a non-interest bearing prom-
issory note, payable on demand. Said loan will be deposited to an account
in a foreign bank and a $3000 letter of credit will be issued you against the
deposit. The additional $1000 will be released from said account, after
approval by the Government representative overseeing your activities.

--- Page 7 ---

14-00000

(c) You will submit to the Government quarterly income and
expense statements on the cover venture and copies of all tax returns filed
in connection therewith. Your cover accounts shall be kept separate and
distinct from the bank account into which your personal compensation pay-
ments are made.

(d) You herein agree that monies loaned you by the Government
shall be repaid from the profits of the cover venture, in amounts and at
periodic intervals to be established by the Government representative over-
seeing your activities. After said loan has been completely repaid and all
other obligations, such as local taxes, etc., have been made, you may retain
any further profit derived from said cover venture. However, it is clearly
understood and agreed that your primary obligation under this agreement is
the performance of Governmental activities.

11. Secrecy. All information related to this agreement conveyed through
instructions, this instrument, or otherwise, is secret and shall not be di-
vulged to any person, organization or government in any form or manner,
except as authorized by the undersigned Contracting Officer executing this
agreement. It is agreed that any revelation whatsoever of the above infor-
mation will constitute and be an immediate and final breach of this agree-
ment and will result in forfeiture by you of any and all benefits which may
then have accrued to you by reason of this agreement.

12. Instructions. During the term of this agreement, and in your
official cover capacity you herein agree to act in conformance with instruc-
tions, oral or written given you by authorized representatives of this orga-
nization.

13. Unauthorized Commitments. No promises or commitments per-
taining to rights, privileges or benefits other than those expressly stipulated
in writing in this agreement or any amendment thereto shall be binding on
this organization.

14. Term. This contract is effective as of 1 November 1960, and shall
continue thereafter for a period of two (2) years unless sooner terminated
by the Government either:
(a) By sixty (60) days' actual notice to you from the Government, or
(b) Without prior notice, in the event of a breach of this contract by
your violation of the security provisions hereof or by your otherwise
rendering yourself unavailable for acceptable service.

Subject to the availability of appropriations, this agreement may be extend-
ed upon notice from the Government. In the event of voluntary termination on
your part or termination for cause by the Government prior to the expirati-
on of this agreement or any renewal thereof, you will not be entitled to return
travel expenses to the United States. Termination or expiration of this agree-
ment will not release you from the obligation of any security oath you may
be required to take.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

ACCEPTED:
Ernest G. Maycrink

WITNESS:

BY
Contracting Officer

APPROVED:

--- Page 8 ---

14-00000

NOV 1960

MEMORANDUM FOR: Contract Personnel Division
SUBJECT: WIROGUE/1 Contract (Formerly ABASPIC).

1. A review of the WIROGUE/1 file showed that subject was under contract for
a period beginning 20 September 1959 through 30 June 1960. Since that date until
20 October 1960, subject was under SR/DOB OQA. On 21 October 1960, the African
Division picked up the case and is preparing to dispatch him on 20 November 1960.

2. It is requested that the contract be brought up to date and amended to
encompass the following points:

A. Effective date: 21 October 1960 through 20 November 1962.
B. Compensation: $500 per month, plus $3000 per annum for housing.
C. Medical: to extent it is necessary to maintain good health.
D. Insurance: $5000 payable to beneficiary.
E. Bonus for outstanding performance, resettlement in another country.
F. Termination: ending of all benefits and monies.

3. This contract will have to be prepared for signing prior to 18 November
1960.

4. For further information, please contact Mr. Daniel R. Miesciur, X8284.

Glenn D. Fields
Acting Chief, Africa Division

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000

SECRET
SR/DOB/60-2074
20 October 1960

MEMORANDUM FOR: Special Contracting Officer
THROUGH: SR/SS
Attention: Madge
SUBJECT: Project Termination of Ernest G. Maycrink (p)
as independent contractor for SR Division:
REFERENCE: SR/DOB/59-1735 dated 17 September 1959
SR/DOB/59-1660 dated 24 July 1959

1. Because of the indefinite postponement of Project AESENTINEL,
under which subject individual was engaged, subject has been terminated by
this office on 20 October 1960.

2. Subject individual will be picked up on contract on 21 October
1960 by Africa Division. Subject was paid on 20 October 1960 by this
office all monies remaining due him as per Engagement of Independent
contractor agreement for Project AESENTINEL. Subject has no further
remunerative claim against the U. S. Government.

Approved:
Keith Reid

MICHAEL RAE
Chief, SR/DOB

--- Page 10 ---

14-00000

SECRET
SH/DOB/59/1735
17 September 1959

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Finance Division
THROUGH: Special Contracting Officer
FROM: Contract Approving Officer, Michael Rae
SUBJECT: Engagement of Ernest O. MAYCRINK (p) as Independent Contractor
REFERENCE: SR/DOB/59/1660, dated 24 July 1959 to Finance Division re same
Subject

1. Project AESENTINEL, under which subject individual has been
engaged, was originally approved through the period 31 March 1960. A request
for renewal and amendment of the project has been submitted to FI, and it is
intended subject individual will be utilized under this project during 1960.

2. The following provisions will apply to subject individual during
the interim period, i.e. 20 September 1959 through 30 June 1960.

3. Term and Project Charge. Subject individual has been engaged
under oral contract for use under Project AESENTINEL. The effective date of the
oral contract is 20 April 1959, and has been extended through the period 31 March
1961, subject to termination by the Government upon thirty (30) days actual notice.

4. Security Approval. The initial security clearance obtained for
Subject's use, CI/CA No. C-73532, dated 11 March 1959, has been suspended during
the interim period. Requests have been made of the Office of Security (SSD and
Alien Affairs Staff) for subject's use.

5. Citizenship. Subject is a foreign national.

6. Compensation. Subject will be paid salary in the amount of $400.00
per month, payable in United States currency.

7. Quarters and Subsistence. Basic quarters and subsistence costs will
be borne by the Subject. Occasional incidental expenses will be borne by
SR/DOB Station Funds.

8. Operational Expenses. No Operational Expenses are contemplated
during the period covered.

9. Other Commitments. The following additional commitments have been
made to the Subject:

--- Page 11 ---

14-00000

a. Medical Benefits. Subject will receive such dental and
medical benefits as may be necessary to maintain his physical status for his
eventual use on his assigned mission. Costs to be borne by SR/DOB Station Funds.

b. Insurance. Insurance coverage for death or disability
incurred in line of duty, not to exceed $5,000.00. Costs chargeable against Project
AESENTINEL.

c. Resettlement. The initial provisions made for resettlement
of Subject still apply.

d. Entertainment. Basic entertainment expenses will be borne by
Subject. Occasional entertainment expenses will be borne by SR/DOB Station
Funds.

10. Contingent Obligations. Although no such promise has been made the
Subject, resettlement in the United States could possibly become necessary as a
form of control, should this be deemed necessary from a security viewpoint.

11. No commitments other than those stated above have been made to the
Subject.

12. At such time as Subject re-enters training for his proposed mission,
about 1 July 1960, all provisions of his initial engagement will again apply.

Dist:
Special Officer
Orig. 1 - Addressee
1 - Contracting Officer

SECRET
MICHAEL RAE
Chief, SR/DOB

--- Page 12 ---

14-00000

SECRET
SR/DOB/59/1660
24 July 1959

FROM: Chief, Finance Division
Special Contracting Officer
Contract Approving Officer, Michael Rae
SUBJECT: Engagement of Ernest O. MAYCRINK (P) as Independent Contractor.

1. Term and Project Charge. The subject individual has been
engaged under oral contract, for use under Project AESENTINEL. The
effective date of the oral contract is 20 April 1959, and shall continue
thereafter for a period of one year subject to termination by the
Government upon thirty (30) days actual notice.

2. Security Approval. The appropriate security approval for
Subject's use has been obtained. Type Operational Approval, No. C-73532,
dated 11 March 1959.

3. Citizenship. The Subject is a foreign national.

4. Compensation. Subject will be paid salary in the amount of
$500.00 per month, payable in United States currency. Of this amount,
he will actually receive $50.00 per month during training and the duration
of the mission. All unpaid monies will accrue to his credit in an escrow
account, the payment of which will be dependent upon the proper performance
of his duties and be payable upon completion of mission for which engaged.
Provisions also made for payment of bonus not to exceed $10,000.00.

5. Quarters and Subsistence. The Subject will be furnished quarters
and subsistence. Those costs to be borne by SR/DOB Station funds.

6. Operational Expenses.
a. Operational travel and expenses to be paid as officially
authorized.
Domestic travel costs will be borne by SR/DOS Station funds.
Travel costs to and from the United States, and foreign travel will be
charged against Project AESENTINEL.
b. Operational expenses to be borne by Project AESENTINEL.
c. Training expenses to be carried by Station Allotment.

--- Page 13 ---

14-00000

SECRET

7. Other Commitments. The following additional commitments have been made to the
Subject:

a. Medical Benefits. Subject will receive such dental and
medical benefits as may be necessary to permit him to properly perform
his assigned mission. Costs to be borne by SR/DOB Station Funds.

b. Insurance. Insurance coverage for death or disability
incurred in line of duty, not to exceed $5,000.00. Costs chargeable
against Project AESENTINEL.

c. Resettlement. Provisions made for resettlement of Subject
in a country other than that in which he was recruited. Costs of
resettlement will not exceed $1,000.00, and will be chargeable against
Project AESENTINEL.

d. Entertainment. All normal entertainment expenses will be
borne by SR Station funds.

8. Contingent Obligations. The following has not been promised the
individual, but may have to be met by the Government:

a. Resettlement in the United States, either as an additional
bonus for the Subject or as a form of control should this become necessary
from a security viewpoint.

9. No commitments other than those stated above have been made to
the Subject.

MICHAEL RAE
Chief, SR/DOB
APPROVED:
J. KEITH REID
