14-00000
104-10106-10217 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Standard M...T.U. Form
Mortgage Note. Individual of Corporation. (Straight or Instalment.)

CONSULT YOUR LAWYER BEFORE SIGNING THIS INSTRUMENT - THIS INSTRUMENT SHOULD BE USED ONLY WITH FIRST SET.

Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

MORTGAGE NOTE

$167,429.88 New York, MARCH 2, 1978

FOR VALUE RECEIVED, We, as husband and wife, residing in the City, County and State of New York, promise to pay to ROUSH-WALKER COMPANY, 48 Alabama Street, S.W., ATLANTA, GEORGIA (30303) or order, at the offices of Roush-Walker Company, 48 Alabama Street, S.W., Atlanta, Georgia, or at such other place as may be designated in writing by the holder of this note, the principal sum of ONE HUNDRED SIXTY-SEVEN THOUSAND FOUR HUNDRED TWENTY NINE 88/100 ($167,429.88) on demand.

IT IS HEREBY EXPRESSLY AGREED, that the said principal sum secured by this note shall become due at the option of the holder thereof on the happening of any default or event by which, under the terms of the mortgage securing this note, said principal sum may or shall become due and payable; also, that all of the covenants, conditions and agreements contained in said mortgage are hereby made part of this instrument.

Presentment for payment, notice of dishonor, protest and notice of protest are hereby waived.

This note is secured by a mortgage made by the maker to the payee of even date herewith, on property situate in the Borough of Manhattan, City, County and State of New York, and commonly known as and by Street Number 163 East 71st Street, New York, N.Y. (10021)

This note may not be changed or terminated orally.

In the presence of:

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000
Title No.

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

STATE OF NEW YORK,
COUNTY OF NEW YORK

On this 2nd day of MARCH in the year nineteen hundred and seventy-eight before me personally came to me known to be the individuals described in and who executed the foregoing instrument, and they acknowledged to me that they executed the same.

STATE OF NEW YORK,
COUNTY OF

On this day of in the year nineteen hundred and before me personally came to me known, who, being by me duly sworn, did depose and say that he resides at that he is the of the corporation described in, and which executed the above instrument; that he knows the seal of said corporation; that the seal affixed to said instrument is such corporate seal; that it was so affixed by order of the Board of Directors of said corporation, and that he signed name thereto by like order.

Dated

(Husband and Wife)
TO
ROUSH-WALKER COMPANY
48 Alabama Street, S.W.,
Atlanta, Georgia.
(30303)

MORTGAGE
March 2, 1978.
$167,429.88

The land affected by the within instrument lies in Section 5, in Block 1406, Lot 26, on the Map of the County of New York.

RECORDED AT REQUEST OF
AND RETURN BY MAIL TO:
Mario E. Brod, Esq.
116 Simeon Street
N.Y., N.Y. 10012

STATE OF NEW YORK,
COUNTY OF

On this day of in the year nineteen hundred and before me personally came to me known to be the individual described in and who executed the foregoing instrument, and acknowledged to me that he executed the same.
