14-00000

1104-10177-10047 [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

ASSIFIES MESSAGE

SECRET

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

MEXICO CITY

WH/SA 8

FILE

DDP, WH7, C./IPS, 01/16

SECRET 0321302

DIR CITE MEXI 2126

TYPICAL LICRAFT

REF DIR 75551

865 IN 565-16

1. FOLLOWING FROM LICRAFT-1: JOAQUIN MIRABAL IS NOT BROTHER OF Alfredo Mirabal Diaz.

FORMER CONSUL MEXI, HAS ONLY ONE SIBLING, SISTER. OFFICIAL TITLE DELEGADO DEL MINISTRO DEL INTERIOR EN LA PROVINCIA DE LA HABANA.

HAS AUTHORITY REPRESENT RAMIRO VALDES, ENTER ANY SECURITY OFFICE IN HABANA PROVINCE, ISSUE ORDERS UNDER VALDES AUTHORITY. BEAR ADMY CAPTAINS UNIFORM AND INSIGNIA. IN 1961 WAS SECOND IN COMMAND OF G 2.

HE'S AT QUINTA AVENIDA AND CALLE 14. MAN IN COMMAND THEN IS NOW POLICE CHIEF HABANA.

2. MIRABAL CLOSE FRIEND VALDES SINCE LONG BEFORE CASTRO TAKEOVER.

IS FROM HABANA. MOTHER REPORTED TO CO TIME COMMUNIST.

FAMILY HOME WAS ON CALLE GOSS, VIBORA, HABANA, IS ABOUT 35 YEARS OLD. LICRAFT FIRST MET IN 1957 AT WHICH TIME MIRABAL WAS CUSTOMS AGENT IN HABANA WORKING FOR UNCLE ALSO NAMED MIRABAL. FIRM HAD SEARS ROEBUCK ACCOUNT.

MAY HAVE HAD WOOLWORTH ACCOUNT. MIRABAL ADMITTED TO LICRAFT HAS MAKING LOTS OF MONEY SMUGGLING LIQUOR. PRICE TO S? HAD HAD A FLING POPOLA SINGER, HAS VERY GOOD VICE WAS VERY FRIENDLY WITH GUSTAVO.

14-00000

IN 56576

CIG WHO NOW WELL KNOWN.

CIATES THIS PERIOD WERE SUSPECT.

LICRAFT TO VISIT BAR JUST ESTABLISHED.

WHEN APPARENT PLACE WAS NOMISERIAL.

3. AFTER CASTRO TAKEOVER MIRABAL WAS ASSIGNED AT HABANA PORT, LATER WAS ASSIGNED TO AIRPORT, WAS IN SECURITY WORK AT LEAST BY 1950, PERHAPS EARLIER. VERY COOP OF LABOR MINISTER.

MINISTER MARTINEZ SANCHEZ WIFE WORKED FOR MERTENS ZANOTE.

CHICAGO INFORMANT OF LICRAFT IS MRS. ALBERT RECIO, OF WELL STREET, GARY, INDIANA, PHONE 938-5255. SHE IS SISTER OF MARTINEZ SANCHEZ WIFE. DISLIKES MIRABAL INTENSELY BUT DOES NOT WISH ANY HARM TO HER SISTER. WOULD BE COOPERATIVE IF APPROACHED AFTER ALERTING.

PHONE CALL FROM LICRAFT- NEW YORK INFORMANT IS EVENITAL A CHRIA FRIEND OF MRS. RECIO AND OF LICRAFT. USED TO MATS SEMINARY.

THAT USED BY LICRAFT. LICRAFT WILL OBTAIN HER PRESENT ADDRESS.

5. SUGGEST HAS ARRANGE TO INTERVIEW MRS. RECIO.

PHONES HER. PLS CABLE NAME TO BE USED BY INTERVIEWING OFFICER.

6. LICRAFT WILL PREPARE STORY ON MIRABAL, PLS CABLE STORY POINTS WISH COVERED.

SECRET
