(104-10120-10276) [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

8 May 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Technical Services Division
ATTENTION: Mr. Clay Kallander
THRU: Office of Security/OSD
Attn: Mr. Gikas
Central Cover Staff
Attn: Mr. James Franklin
SUBJECT: Request for Official Documentation
REFERENCE: WAVE 8138 (IN 32980)

1. It is requested that a (U. S. Army Investigator Credential) and Civilian Identification Card be Issued in alias to the SAS employee identified hereunder.

2. The credential should identify the employee with the U. S. Army, Joint Operations Group, and the title designation should be INVESTIGATOR.

3. The credential will be utilized generally in the Southeastern part of the United States and possibly in Latin American in pursuit of the mission of SAS. Further the utilization of the credential will be on a controlled basis as directed by the Chief of Station, JMWAVE.

4. The alias set forth in the attached identity sheet has been DDS/IOS registered with RI. Pertinent biographic data has been set forth on ADDS/IOS the Identity sheet.

5. Photographs for the individual were forwarded to TSD on 6 May 1963. Subject's social security number is (055-18-4137) according to the above reference.

6. After the credential has been signed it should be forwarded to P. Lawrence, SAS/Security Officer, Room GH-56.

7. Any questions regarding the foregoing matter should be directed to Mr. Lawrence, ext. 5909.

VINCENT J. HEYMAN
Chief, SAS/Support

Attachment: IDENTITY SHEET
bc: OS/OSD, CCS

---

14-00000

Balmes N. HIDALGO, Jr.
ALIAS: Bernard Forman HILLARY
DOB: 27 May 1929
HEIGHT: 5'9"
WEIGHT: 165 lbs.
EYES: Brown
HAIR: Black
SOCIAL SEC NO.: 055-18-4137
