Throa-10438-10786 [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

23 August 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Call from Jon French of DCD Concerning Frank STURGIS

1. The following information was provided to Jon French by his DCD Miami office on 23 August. The information was given to the DCD Miami office by a contact (not identified) on 23 August who obtained it from Oscar FREELY. FREELY is writing a book on Frank STURGIS.

2. STURGIS is to appear on the Tomorrow Show at 2 a.m. on 24 August, which is to be narrated by Tom Schneider. STURGIS just recently returned to Miami from taping the show in New York.

3. While in New York STURGIS saw Marita LORENZ and obtained from her a book which, according to source, appeared to be cryptographic material and seemed to relate to Albania. The DCD source saw a "few copies" of what he described as "mathematical matrix" material.

4. STURGIS currently (today - 23 August) is attempting to contact Senator Baker to turn over the material to him. DCD plans to ask the source to monitor the situation and advise whether the material in fact is turned over to Baker.

Chris Hopkins
LA/COG/CIOS
201-242256
STURGIS

Should Told To That DCD slid/25
Phan
A200 & Phil FENDIG - he will do.
8/22
D002140

--- Page 2 ---

13-00000

Instructions for Divisions and Staffs:
1. Fill in and Sign on line 11.
2. Use back of form for additional comments.

DOCUMENT DESCRIPTION (Circle if appropriate) (30 CHARACTERS)
CABLE
DISPATCH
FORM
MEMO
LETTER
AIRGRAM

FROM/ORIGINATOR (30 CHARACTERS)
LA/COG/CIOS

CLASS WHERE LOCATED (10 CHARACTERS)

SUBJECT (80 CHARACTERS)
CALL FROM JON FRENCH OF DCD CONCERNING FRANK STURGIS

TO/RECIPIENT (30 CHARACTERS)
The Record

DAY MONTH YEAR
23 AUG 76

DDO FILE NUMBER (20 CHARACTERS)
201-242256
AUG76

Determinations:
A. Release in full text
B. Release in sanitized form
C. Deny in toto
D. Defer decision to (Specify in line 8)
E. Sustain initial denial in toto
F. Sustain initial release of sanitized version
G. Release additional information
H. Coordinate with (Specify in line 8)

DEFER DECISION TO (10 CHARACTERS) COORDINATE WITH (10 CHARACTERS)

SIGNATURE OF DO/IME/FPLG REVIEWING OFFICER

EXEMPTIONS AND PROVISIONS CLAIMED (40 CHARACTERS)
E.O. 12356
FOIA
PA
B1 B2 B3 B4 B5 B6 B7C
B J1 K1

Exemptions and Provisions claimed to protect the following:
FOIA
PA
1. Classification (b)(1) (k)(1)
2. Information from liaison with a Foreign Government (b)(3) (j)(1)
3. Information pertaining to a liaison relationship with a Foreign Government (b)(3) (j)(1)
4. Information which would/could identify the source (b)(3) (j)(1)
5. Information pertaining to a source (b)(3) (j)(1)
6. Information pertaining to intelligence methods (b)(3) (j)(1)
7. Location of CIA overseas installation (b)(3) (j)(1)
8. Location of unacknowledged domestic installation (b)(3) (j)(1)
9. Name of CIA employee (b)(3) (j)(1)
10. File number (b)(3) (j)(1)
11. Pseudonym (b)(3) (j)(1)
12. Cryptonym (b)(3) (j)(1)
13. Internal organizational data (b)(3) (j)(1)
14. Name of an FBI agent (b)(7) (c) (j)(1)
15. FBI file number (b)(2)
16. Privacy of other individual (b)(6) (j)(1)
17. Does not pertain to request (b)
18. Other (Specify in line 11) (b)(3) (j)(1)

REMARKS (IF OTHER WAS CHECKED ABOVE) (40 CHARACTERS)
REMARKS (160 CHARACTERS)
HSCA Box #16

SIGNATURE/OFFICE OF DO COMPONENT REVIEWING OFFICE

This Form is Unclassified Unless The Classification is Changed and The Information below is completed.
CL BY:
DECL OADR
DRV FROM:
