SECRET

Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

104-10187-10110
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
14-00000
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES

WH DIV - Cuba
ESE VR, FILE
CUBAN DEFECTOR

PRIORITY DIR CITE SALV 5301

SECRET 252130Z

A. SALV 5296 (IN 82314)
B. DIR 52899
C. CIA OFFICER (SALVADORAN INTEL CHIEF) IN-82908

1. IN ACCORDANCE REFS AND MET 28 SEPT.
2. 25 SEPTEMBER IN OFFICE TO BRIEF HIM ON RECRUITMENT, (SALV INTEL CHIEF)
IMPORTANCE AND SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS. WAS MUCH IMPRESSED AND AGREED EMPHATICALLY ONLY HE AND (PRESIDENT) WOULD KNOW RECRUITMENT AND THEY WOULD MAKE NO RECORD OF IT. DURING
CIA OFFICER CUBAN TARGET POINTED OUT IS MOST IMPORTANT LOCAL TARGET BECAUSE HE HAS KNOWLEDGE OF AND ACCESS TO COMMIE PARTIES SALV AND OTHER CENTRAL AMERICAN COUNTRIES.

SQUARE SAID ONE OF HIS AGENTS WHO ALREADY HAS LEFT SALV

SOURCES + METHODS

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

IN 28 PAGE
CUBAN ASSET (SALV. INTEL CHIEF)
ARRANGED CONTACT WITH CLAS. HE ACCEPTED WITHOUT QUESTION, MADE NO DEMANDS.
ORDERED ALL HIS FACILITIES AND UTMOST COOPERATION TO CIA OFFICER.

BELIEVE THERE HAS BEEN NO SECURITY PROBLEM TO DATE.

3. DO NOT PLAN HIT ANY OTHER TARGETS SALV AT THIS TIME, EXCEPT DALTON CUBAN TARGET.
DALTON OP TOO IMPORTANT TO RISK DRAWING ATTENTION TO PRESENCE OR RECRUITMENT EFFORTS. PLAN TO CONTINUE INTERROGATION AND RECRUITMENT EFFORT. HIS SILENCE AND COLLABORATION IMPORTANT IN THEMSELVES BUT ALSO FOR FOREGOING REASON. (SALV. INTEL CHIEF) AGREES HANDLE EXACTLY AS WISHES.

ALTERNATIVE APPEARED, CHT IN (PRESIDENT) AND [SALV. INTEL CHIEF] ONLY.

SOURCES + METHODS

SECRET
