[2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

10 May 1963

SUBJECT: Cleard Joseph CHARLES

1. On 29 April 1963 Dorothe Matlack, Domestic Exploitation Section, ACSI, telephoned to the effect that a banker named Cleard Joseph Charles had left Haiti six days earlier and had just arrived in New York. A friend of Charles, named Joseph Dryer, 109 Lakewood Avenue, West Palm Beach, Florida, had written to General Delmar, former Antilles Command, recommending Charles as a man of great interest to the IB overseas in view of the events in Haiti. Charles was described as President of the Bsc Commercials, Fort en Prine, Haiti, and is in President Duvalier's favor. Mrs. Matlack mentioned that she had alerted Col. Sam Kail to contact Dryer in order to obtain more background information and a concemment on Charles.

2. On 1 May 63 Mrs. Matlack advised that Charles was staying at the Park Sheraton Hotel, New York, and that he had telephoned her since her name had been supplied to him by Dryer. Charles considered her to be his point of contact in Washington. According to Mrs. Matlack, Charles had appointments to see Vice President Jenson, Senator Keating, and Congressman Rogers (Florida). However, Charles was willing to talk to representatives of Mrs. Matlack's office. Mrs. Matlack stated that the Haitian Desk man in AQI was ready to go to New York to talk to Charles and invited CIA to accompany him. Charles speaks very little English and a fluency in French was therefore required for the interview. Mrs. Matlack stated that she might be able to obtain a French linguist from First Army, Governor's Island, who would not be an intelligence officer. It was decided that Jim Palog, New York Office, who has a knowledge of the French language would accompany the ACSI representative. Army also arranged that Palog would meet the ACSI representative (Captain Bogens) at the Park Sheraton Hotel where Charles was staying.

3. On 2 May 63 Mrs. Matlack reported that Col. Kail had interviewed Mr. Dryer in West Palm Beach. Dryer had appointed Charles as Director of his bank in Haiti. Charles, according to Dryer, formerly had no political ambitions but in view of the current political situation in Haiti, Charles now thinks that he may some day be president. Dryer described Charles as well-connected, politically and financially, on both sides of the fence in Haiti. He is also a good friend of President Duvalier. Dryer had given Charles letters of introduction to Senator Keating and to other officials in Washington. Charles wanted to see President Kennedy and indeed had gone to the White House to arrange for an appointment. He was well received by the President's appointment secretary and invited to dinner that evening with the appointment secretary. Through a misunderstanding, however, Charles did not attend the dinner but went to New York instead.

4. Charles is travelling, according to Dryer, with a Russian geologist named de Mohrenschildt. De Mohrenschildt is associated with Charles in a business venture in Haiti and is trying to arrange a meeting for Charles with Vice President Johnson.

5. On 3 May 63 Jim Palog telephoned to advise that he had had a five-hour session the previous day with Charles and that he had obtained both personality data and views by Charles on what the United States should do in the current Haitian situation. Palog advised that he was transmitting the information to Washington. Upon arrival, copies of the teletypes were transmitted to ACSI (Mrs. Matlack), W Division, and the Latin American Branch.

6. On 6 May 63 Mago Stunts, Support Branch, advised that W Division wished to speak to Charles and Palog was asked to attend an appointment. Mrs. Matlack telephoned at approximately 1715 to advise that she had just received a telephone call from Mrs. de Mohrenschildt making assistance in obtaining hotel reservations in Washington. Upon being told that we had no special means of obtaining reservations, Mrs. Matlack stated that she would check with the State Department Protocol Office to determine which hotels would admit negro guests. Mrs. Matlack finally made reservations at the Alban Towers. A check with Jim Palog revealed that he had arranged for Charles to meet the W representative in the lobby of the Willard Hotel, Washington, D. C., at 1200 noon on 7 May. Attempts to reach Mrs. Matlack that afternoon were unsuccessful. At 0850, 7 May, a call was made to Mrs. Matlack to confirm that Charles would be in Washington on that day and that arrangements had been made for a meeting with an Agency representative for 1200 noon. Mrs. Matlack retorted that both Mrs. de Mohrenschildt and Charles had called her that previous evening to confirm a 1200 luncheon appointment with her. Mrs. Matlack was concerned that CIA and Army should not be working at cross purposes. She had received authorization from ACSI to meet Charles at lunch and felt that it would not be politic for her to withdraw from her appointment unless Army considered her the point of contact with Charles. Mago Stunts informed W Division of the snafu and pressed on the suggestion that the W Division representative might meet Charles and Mrs. Matlack at noon and that Mrs. Matlack offered to withdraw shortly thereafter. The W representative declined the offer and requested that a meeting later in the afternoon be arranged. Mrs. Matlack believed that due to conflicting instructions, she had been placed in the middle in the situation from which she could not graciously withdraw and requested that someone accompany her.

7. I met Mrs. Matlack in the lobby of the Hotel Willard shortly before noon, and a few minutes later, Mr. Charles arrived, accompanied by Mr. and Mrs. de Mohrenschildt. He lunched in the restaurant in the hotel. Mr. de Mohrenschildt mentioned that he had been born in Russia, but during the Bolshevik Revolution had been taken to Poland as a small child. He had spent approximately 20 years in Poland prior to World War II and had served in the Polish Army. He also mentioned that he had been a member of an ICA team to Yugoslavia in 1957 and while in Belgrade had met Opalka who was visiting Belgrade at the time. He had spoke to Opalka and was invited to visit Poland, which invitation he had accepted. His home is in Dallas, Texas. He has a PhD. in geology and has had some teaching experience. Mrs. de Mohrenschildt was born in Harbin, China. Her father was Russian and her mother French, and she is or has been a fashion designer. Mr. de Mohrenschildt mentioned that he has known Charles for sometime and that he is a partner with him in a sisal business in Haiti.

8. Both Charles and de Mohrenschildt were anxious to arrange meetings with government officials in Washington. I mentioned to Charles that a meeting had been arranged for him at 1400 and that a Mr. Green would meet him in the lobby. At 1410 Mrs. Matlack, Mr. and Mrs. de Mohrenschildt and I departed and Charles remained in the lobby waiting for contact.

9. In the course of the luncheon conversation, Charles had mentioned to Mrs. Matlack that he desired to see a Mr. Wien, AID, to discuss US aid to Haiti. Later that afternoon Mrs. Matlack called to state that she had called the State Department to pass along Charles' request. Mr. Lesarar (State) had called her back to pass on the Haitian Desk man's express displeasure that persons in the United States Government should be in official contact with Charles. The Desk man considered Charles to be close to the Duvalier Government, to have been involved in several shady financial dealings, and in general, to be an undesirable character. Mrs. Matlack asked whether the Agency had any interest in Charles which would dictate further contact with Charles.

10. Mago Stunts checked with W Division and determined that as a result of the meeting with Charles, the E/P Haitian Desk had no further plans to contact him. I told Mrs. Matlack that our interest seemed to have been satisfied and that I believed we should disengage ourselves as gracefully as possible.

11. Wayne Helson, DD/P Coordinator, called on 7 May to inquire concerning our involvement in the Charles case. He stated that ACSI had called him earlier that day to assure him that ACSI had no direct interest in Charles and that it was acting as an intermediary at the request of General Delmar who had passed the lead to General Fitch. ACSI was concerned that due to the mix up in appointments to see Charles, charges might later be made that ACSI had interfered or had obstructed CIA contact with Charles. I explained to Helson what had happened and he later called back to state that ACSI was completely satisfied in the way the matter had been handled.

12. On 8 May Mrs. Matlack telephoned to advise that the Operational Branch of ACSI was discussing the Charles case with DD/P to determine future course of action. She was still somewhat concerned over her own position in the case since Charles considered her to be the focal point in Washington. I reiterated to her that the matter was one for either the State Department or the operational elements to handle and that we preferred to disengage ourselves. Mrs. Matlack mentioned that a dispatch had been received to the effect that a cousin of Charles was prominently mentioned as a successor to Duvalier should the latter be overthrown. She was of the opinion that the US government should continue to "play ball" with Charles as a future asset in Haitian affairs.

Distribution:
1 - O/Cates
1 - New York Office
1 - Support (Stunts)
1 - LA Branch
1 - Index (Control)
1 - Dep/Coll chrono

A. F. CZATKOWSKI
