14-00000
104-10171-10018 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Source: Isidoro Esquerra Fernanzez (A1289162)
Country: Cuba
Subj: (See below different reports)
Date of Info: Prior to 7 Mar 62
Date place acq: Prior to 7 Mar 62, Habana Cuba
Source descript.: Cuban national who was a student at the University of Habana

1. The student resistance organization in Habana is the Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil (DRE, Student Revolutionary Directory).
One of its leaders is Lester Garcia Rosales who is the chief of finance for Habana Province. [Roberto Quintaires Santiago] is the general coordinator of the DRE. He has an external line of communication, running out of Cuba, through an official of the Uruguayan Embassy in Habana. [Quintalros] replaced [Ricardo XXX Repender], who is also known as "El SIMAX Chino" (the Chinaman). The latter was arrested by the Cuban security forces in January 1962 and is presently in prison.

2. The DRE has a clandestine propaganda newspaper called 'Trinchera', but it is published on a very irregular basis.

3. In order to finance its activities the DRE sells bonds in one and five peso denominations. However, because of the security conditions in Cuba, one must be very careful in selling the bonds or else he may sell one to a government agent who are constantly trying to provoke oppositionists to show themselves.

4. During the latter part of February 1962 two bombs exploded in the University of Habana. It was said that the bombing was done by the DRE.

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

NEW REPORT- SAME SOURCE

The section of Habana known as Alturas del Bosque (roughly, the Heights of the Woods) is being heavily fortified by the Cuban Government. This area is located on the north side of 23rd Street above the

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000
page 2
western shore of the Almendares River. It is said that important government officials also live in this area. Nevertheless, from this section one has a commanding view of the city of Habana.

NEW REPORT- SAME SOURCE

In all my time in Habana and until 6 March 1962, the date of my departure, I never saw more than 3 Cuban air force jet planes in the air at one time. I have talked to my friends, particularly one who lives near the airstrip at Campo Libertad, and no one has seen more than this number in the air at one time. This leads us to believe that the air force does not have as many jets as they say they have.
