14-00000
104-10179-10136

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLADOITILU MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

FROM: DIRECTOR
TO: PARIS

ACTION: BAS S (SAS NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT 1735 19 JUN DO)
INFO: DOP, CI, CI/OPS, CI/OA, FI, RI/AN, WE 4, WH 7, S/C 2

SECRET
77272
IN63271

KPRITY DIR INFO PRITY MADR SJAN WAVE ROUTINE BRUS CITE PARI 9068
TYPIC

19 JUN 1963

REF A PARI 9888 (IN 61964)
B PARI 9849 (NOT SENT SJAN BRUS) (IN 03094)

1. RAY CONTACTED BY JERVAY (UNDER IDEN A ALIAS) 17 AND 18 JUNE. IN ADDITION CONTACTS REPORTED PARA ONE PARI 8824 RAY HAS (IN 56769) ALSO BEEN IN CONTACT UNRUMBLE 6, UNPAPIST, AND AT LEAST ONE CONTACT WITH AMSPORT 1. RAY DESIGNATED UNRUMBLE 6 AS HIS CONTACT MAN PARI. JERVAY NOT INTRODUCED BUT WILL CONTACT SHORTLY. STA FEELS THIS IS GOOD MOVE SINCE UNRUMBLE 6 APPEARS BE GOOD MAN AND HAS APPROACHED EMB IN PAST SEPARATELY FROM UNRUMBLE 2 WITH SOME INTERESTING PLANS. STA DID NOT APPROACH HIM DIRECTLY IN PAST BECAUSE DID NOT WANT TO DISTURB RELATIONSHIP WITH UNRUMBLE 2. UMRUMBLE 2 VILL NEVERTHELESS BE VITTING UNRUMBLE 6 CURRENT RELATIONSHIP. RAY WAS DRIVEN AIRPORT BY ALBERTO BAEZ. WITH WHOM RAY SPENT MUCH TIME AND WHO SEEMS BE CLOSEST TO RAY AMONG HIS CONTACTS: PARIS.

CABRERA DID NOT PHONE PARIS OVER WEEKEND. CONTINUE MONITOR DEVELOPMENTS THROUGH UNRUMBLE 6.

SECRET
GROUP
EXCLUDING FROM AUTOMATIC
GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
IN 65-1 PAGE 2

RAY BELIEVES CABRERA WILL WORK ON ARCOS BUT SAYS MAN WHO COULD REALLY DO THE JOB IS ARCOS UNCLE WHO IN PUERTO RICO AND KNOWN TO RAY. HE COULD NOT REMEMBER NAME OR EXACT RELATIONSHIP BUT PLANS CONTACT HIM ON RETURN AND GROOM HIM FOR TASK. RAY ASKED BE INFORMED WHEN ARCOS RETURNS BRUS.

4. KUBARK STAFFER (IDEN B) OF CONGRESS OF CULTURAL FREEDOM MET RAY AT LEAST TWICE. EXCELLENT RAPPORT. HE ARRANGED RAY'S PRESS INTERVIEW WITH GUILLON DE MOULINS (INCORRECTLY REPORTED IN PARA FIVE PARI 8947) OF LE MONDE. ALSO ARRANGED DINNER 17 JUNE. WAS NONCOMMITAL BUT ENCOURAGING ABOUT JOB POSSIBILITY FOR FRANQUI SHOULD HE DEFECT. (IN 60159)

5. RAY SEEMS TO BE CONFIDENT FRANQUI WILL JOIN HIS CAMP IN NOT TOO DISTANT FUTURE AND RELYING ON CABRERA TO CONTINUE WORKING ON HIM. STA NOT SO CONVINCED AND PLANS PROCEED ALONG LINES DIR 48158 AND PARI 9867 (NOT SENT SJAN BRUS). (IN 63152)

6. POSSIBLE REFERENCE TO GUEDE TALK WITH FRANQUI IS IN 8 JUNE UNSOX. AMB GRAMATGES MENTIONS TO SINOBAS THAT MARIO (PRESUMABLY THIRD SECY MARIO GRACIA VARELA CALLED FROM THE EXHIBITION SAYING THAT SOME ANTI-CASTRO ELEMENTS WERE ABOUT AND THAT FRANQUI ASKED FOR SOME MORE PEOPLE FROM THE EMBASSY TO BE AROUND THE EXHIBITION.

SO 13 DINE UNSIERRA AFU 12 BONNENTS OSNAFU THAT HOME GUSANDS WERE THE PHOTOGRAPHIC EXHIBITION AND THE FRENCH POLICE WENT BY CUBAN EB 18 HER IF THEY SHOULD GUARD THE EXHIBIT, RENCE TO QUEDEL DITE LATTER PROBABLY.

THIS STA HAS NO INDICATION FRANQUI HAS TALKED ABOUT APPROACH SO HIM.

RAY FEELS TRIP EUROPE WAS VERY PROFITABLE. DESPITE FACT HE HAS NO FIRM COMMITMENT FROM FRANQUI, CABRERA OR ARCOS HE

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
IN 63271 PAGE 3

SEEMS CONFIDENT THEY WILL JOIN HIM EVENTUALLY. HE FEELS HE HAS TIGHTENED UP AND INSPIRED HIS "ORGANIZATION" PARIS. SAYS HAS GAINED IMPRESSION FROM TALKS WITH CUBANS HERE THAT DISILLUSIONMENT AMONG CUBAN EMBASSIES AND OFFICIALS INSIDE CUBA HAS GROWN CONSIDERABLY. RAY CONVINCED IT POSSIBLE TO OVERTHROW CASTRO CLEANLY AND SIMPLY. WANTS DEVOTE OWN APPARATUS TO IDENTIFYING DISAFFECTED ELEMENTS IN CUBA AND BUILDING UP SUPPLY APPARATUS IN AND OUTSIDE CUBA TO SERVE THEM.

8. RAY ASKED FOR FOLLI:

A. UP TO DATE LIST OF PERSONNEL AND ADDRESS OF ALL CUBAN EMBASSIES IN EUROPE TO BE PASSED HIM IN SJAN AND UNRUMBLE 6 IN PARIS. HE WANTS BEGIN MAILING PROPAGANDA AND LETTERS TO STIMULATE FURTHER DISAFFECTION PERSONNEL.

B. TRAINING OF HIMSELF IN SJAN AND UNRUMBLE 6 PARI IN IDENTICAL SW SYSTEM WHICH THEY CAN USE FOR CORRESPONDENCE BETWEEN SJAN AND PARI AND ALSO INTO CUBA. STA FELT BOTH THESE IDEAS SHOULD BE ENCOURAGED AND RAY WAS TOLD COULD BE DONE. WOULD APPRECIATE HQS PROVISION OF ITEM A AND DESIGNATION OF SW SYSTEM.

C. RAY ALSO ASKED WE LINE UP JOB FOR CABRERA AS EUROPE REP SOME PAPER AS DISCUSSED WITH NAUMAN PER PARI 8947. WOULD APPRECIATE HQS FOLLOWUP ON THIS.

FEEL ONE SOLID ACCOMPLISHMENT OF RAY'S TRIP WAS RE-ESTABLISHMENT OF WORKING RELATION WITH RAY. BELIEVE HE HIT IT OFF WELL WITH NAUMAN GROVERY AND JERVAY AND GAINED CONFIDENCE OUR SUPPORT WHICH MAY ALLEVIATE SOMEWHAT SOME PAST PROBLEMS KUBARK RELATIONSHIP.

18. INDEX.
C/S COMMENT: RAY DEPARTING PARI AF 015 ARRIVING NY 1300 HOURS 18 JUNE

SECRET
KHUMALAZA
