14-00000
104-10179-10121 [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

The material contains information affecting the National Defence of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title If, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

SECRET

(When Filled in)
COUNTRY: CUBA Marked [] None required REPORT NO. TDCS -3/490,978.
SUBJECT: STATEMENTS OF MANOLO RAY, EXILE LEADER DATE DISTR. 24 OCTOBER 1961
OF THE PEOPLE'S REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT
REFERENCES : IN 11257 PRECEDENCE ROUTINE
DATE OF INFO. OCTOBER 1961
PLACE & ENGLAND, LONDON (24 OCTOBER 1961) FIELD REPORT NO. OEL 30,995
DATE ACQ. 15
APPRAISAL THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.
SOURCE OFFICIAL BRITISH SERVICE FROM SOURCE WITH GOOD CONTACTS AMONG EXILES
"IN CARACAS".

1. MANOLO RAY, EXILE LEADER OF MOVIMIENTO REVOLUCIONARIO
DEL PUEBLO (MRP - PEOPLE'S REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT) SAID IN
EARLY OCTOBER THAT HE WAS FIRMLY OPPOSED TO ANY INVASION OF CUBA,
INSISTING THAT CASTRO'S OVERTHROW WAS TO BE ACHIEVED BY INTERNAL
RESISTANCE AND THIS HAD ALREADY STARTED.

2. THE MRP WAS ORGANIZED THROUGHOUT THE ISLAND AND SUPPORTED
BY ALL CLASSES OF THE POPULATION. IT HAD MEMBERS IN ALL 33
TRADE UNIONS, THE G-2, MILITIA AND THROUGHOUT THE ADMINISTRATION.
RAY ESTIMATED 80 PERCENT OF POPULATION WERE OPPOSED TO CASTRO,
THOUGH MAJORITY WERE NOT ACTIVELY SO, HE CONSIDERED THE MRP AT
PRESENT ENJOYED MORE SUPPORT THAN THE ORIGINAL REVOLUTION HAD

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

STATE ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC USIA OCI ONE OCR ORR EXO FBI
&NS TREASURY REPCINCLANT

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
