14-00000
104-10217-10196 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

3 AUG 64

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING
1.
2.
3.

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: PARIS

SUBJECT: Richard Gibson

ACTION: WET
DISTRIBUTION: FEL, CA2, CA/PEG, CA/PRIP, FI, OR

INFO: AGGED: 01/10/2, VR

SECRET 02135Z

DIR CITE PARI 5567 BINGHAM ACTING

LOHARVEST

Aug 64 IN 40621

1. VERGES MAGAZINE REVOLUTION COMBINED ISSUES NO'S 10-11 APPEARED ON PARIS NEWS STANDS 30 JULY. STA BUYING UP COPIES FOR STUFFER PSYCH OP. WILL ADVISE.

2. FYI BULLETIN INSIDE FRONT COVER STATES:

"FOLLOWING GRAVE ACCUSATIONS CONVEYED BY COMRADES IN NEW YORK, LONDON AND ACCRA AND CONFIRMED ON INQUIRY, REVOLUTION INFORMS ITS READERS THAT RICHARD GIBSON WHO MISUSED HIS OFFICE AS FORMER SECRETARY OF "FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE” IN ORDER PENETRATE RANKS OF INTERNATIONAL REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT MUST NO LONGER BE CONSIDERED COLLABORATOR OF THIS REVIEW. NO EDITION OF REVIEW MAY BE HELD RESPONSIBLE FOR HIS DOINGS."

3. DURING OUR OWN PREVIOUS CONSIDERATION OF APPROACHING GIBSON (ASO RENDJEVAY) FOR WTRK JERVAY ASKED LOCAL ODENVY IF HE WAS THEIR AGENT AND WAS TOLD NO.

SECRET

PRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

No.

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

B. ANALYST

SECRET
(then filled in)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT: GIBSON, RICHARD

CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE: 201-306052

SEX: M DOB: ? CIT: USA

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

1. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.: 040-006-138/03
2. FILE NO.: NBOA-10084
3. DATE: 12 MAR 64
4. DATE: 1918303
5. SOURCE CRYPTONYM: PAZR
6. DATE PROCESSED: ?
7. DATE OF INFO.: ?
8. EVALUATION: STRONG
9. DISSEMINATED IN: FRANCE
10. EDITOR: OCC EDITOR
11. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF OF THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE EDITION OF REVOLUTION DISPATCH CONTAINS CORRESPONDENCE BETWEEN SUBJ AND PADBAYON/1

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

1. TRANSF TO: ?
2. FILE NO.: ?

PERTINENT INFORMATION: ?

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.: 867 PREVIOUS EDITION

SECRET 1918303
