14-00000
104-10192-10284 [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: LONDON

ACTION: IN 2

INFO: MRP, OCI, D/DCI, DOP, COP, ADOP/A, SA CA/PHO, CA/PRG, CA/PROP, CI, CE/OPS, FI, PI/NT 6, FI/O, BELL 5, VN 16, 7, 89/1(A), 00/1(L), AD/CI, OS, S/C 2.

DATE: 24 OCTOBER 1961 2131Z

ROUTING: ROUTINE

IN 11257

TOCS -3/490,978

DIR INFO CARA CITE LOND 8769

ANDRE ACTING

INTEL DYVOUR.

SUPDATA SOURCE (SMOTH)

TIME FILED 13102

NOFORN CONTINUED CONTROL OEL-30,995 CUBA

SUBJ: STATEMENTS OF MANOLO RAY

001 OCTOBER 1961

PADA ENGLAND LONDON, 24 OCTOBER 1961.

SOURCE (OFFICIAL BRITISH SERVICE) FROM "SOURCE WITH GOOD CONTACTS AMONG EXILES IN CARACAS".

COMMENT:

WN/PACY
WH/REG
WM RE
WH/FI
NO SEPARATE CABLE DISTRIBUTION IS BEING MADE OF THIS TDCS.
15\WN/4/PH
WER
VE 6R
VK PM
WH/4
RELEASING
ME/P
DATE DISTRIBUTED.
PA/PROP
BH Deline
1.J.N.DCLANCY
3/P1
TDCS
PRECEDENCE: ROUTINE
PRIORITY
BASED ONE OEL-30,995
HP/SHOTH 01
24 OCTOBER 2244 Z 61 LIAISON C

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No

---

14-00000

GRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

COUNTRY: CUBA

SUBJECT: STATEMENTS OF MANOLO RAY, EXILE LEADER OF THE PEOPLE'S REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT

DATE OF INFO: OCTOBER 1961

PLACE & DATE ACC: ENGLAND, LONDON (24 OCTOBER 1961)

REPORT NO. TDCS 3/490,978

DATE DISTR: 24 OCTOBER 1961

PRECEDENCE: ROUTINE

REFERENCES: 11257

FIELD REPORT NO: OEL-30,995

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE: OFFICIAL BRITISH SERVICE FROM "SOURCE WITH GOOD CONTACTS AMONG EXILES IN CARACAS".

1.  MANOLO RAY, EXILE LEADER OF MOVIMIENTO REVOLUCIONARIO DEL PUEBLO (MRP - PEOPLE'S REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT) SAID IN EARLY OCTOBER THAT HE WAS FIRMLY OPPOSED TO ANY INVASION OF CUBA, INSISTING THAT CASTRO'S OVERTHROW WAS TO BE ACHIEVED BY INTERNAL RESISTANCE AND THIS HAD ALREADY STARTED.

2.  THE MRP WAS ORGANIZED THROUGHOUT THE ISLAND AND SUPPORTED BY ALL CLASSES OF THE POPULATION. IT HAD MEMBERS IN ALL 33 TRADE UNIONS, THE G-2, MILITIA AND THROUGHOUT THE ADMINISTRATION. RAY ESTIMATED 80 PERCENT OF POPULATION WERE OPPOSED TO CASTRO, THOUGH MAJORITY WERE NOT ACTIVELY SO. HE CONSIDERED THE MRP AT PRESENT ENJOYED MORE SUPPORT THAN THE ORIGINAL REVOLUTION HAD AGAINST BATISTA.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

STATE
ARMY/ACD
NAVY
AIR
JCS
SECDEF MSA NIC USIA
TREASURY
OCI
REPOINCLANS
OCR
ONE
CAR

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

---

14-00000

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION-DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
11257.
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL
TOCS -3/490,978

PAGE 2

3.  THE MRP WAS PRESENTLY SHORT OF ARMS AND EXPLOSIVES BUT THE POSITION WAS IMPROVING. A MILITIA CAPTAIN WAS RECENTLY SENTENCED TO 30 YEARS IN PRISON FOR PASSING ARMS TO THE MRP. NO HELP WHATSOEVER HAD BEEN RECEIVED BY THE INTERNAL RESISTANCE FROM THE "SOURCES" IN THE UNITED STATES, WHO PROVIDED SUPPORT FOR THE INVASION. THESE SOURCES WERE STILL THINKING INEFFECTUALLY IN TERMS OF A FURTHER INVASION.

4.  THE GENERAL ATTITUDE OF THE RESISTANCE IN CUBA TOWARDS THE EXILES WAS ONE OF INDIFFERENCE MOUNTING TO CONTEMPT FOR SPECIFIC MOVES SUCH AS THE PROPOSED PROMOTION OF A CUBAN GOVT IN EXILE. WHAT THE RESISTANCE WANTED WAS FUNDS AND THE RETURN, BY INFILTRATION, OF TRAINED EXILES, PARTICULARLY COMMUNICATION EXPERTS.

5.  ON THE TIMING OF CASTRO'S OVERTHROW, RAY SAID CASTRO WOULD NOT LAST ANOTHER YEAR. HE ADDED THAT THE SITUATION IN CUBA IMMEDIATELY AFTER CASTRO'S DOWNFALL WOULD BE DANGEROUS AND COULD DEVELOP INTO A CIVIL WAR.

6.  FIELD DISSEM: STATE, CINCLANT, CINCARIB.

SECRET

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION-DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL
