14-00000

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 (104-10247-10069)

DISPATCH

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

FROM: Chief of Station, JMWAVE

SUBJECT: TYPIC/Operational
MOC Amendment for Subject of 201-307337

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES:
Action Required: Please Record Amendment

References:
A. UFGA-11381, 27 September 1963
(MOC Amendment)
B. UFGA-15436, 23 April 1964
(MOC Amendment)
C. WAVE-8141, 19 June 1964

1. Transmitted herewith are three (3) copies of an amended MOC for Subject. This amendment has been written to provide Subject a raise in salary from $350.00 net per month to $400.00 net.

2. Per Reference C, the New York funding mechanism was discontinued with the issuance to Subject of check for period 1-15 June 1964. Subject will be paid henceforth at JMWAVE beginning with period 16-30 June 1964.

Attachments:
MOC (3 cys) - H/W
IDEN Sheet (3 cys) - USC

Distribution:
3 - Addressee w/ MOC - H/W
IDEN Sheet - USC

Andrew K. REUTEMAN
DATE TYPED: DATE DISPATCHED
22 June 1964 25 June 1964
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
UFGA-16604
HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER
201-307337

CROSS REFERENCE TO
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET COPY

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

SECRET

MEMORANDUM OF ORAL COMMITMENT

TO: Chief, Special Affairs Staff

FROM: Chief of Station, JMWAVE

SUBJECT: Engagement of IDEN A 201-307337

1. Term and Project Charge. The Subject individual has been engaged under oral contract for use under TYPIC and is to be charged against PK cost center. The effective date of the oral contract is 16 June 1964 and it shall continue until terminated by either party upon fifteen days actual notice.

2. Security Approval. The appropriate security approval to utilize Subject as requested has been obtained. OA Granted 6 February 1963 via DIR-18422, 6 February 1963.

3. Citizenship. The Subject is a Cuban citizen and was born on 14 February 1937 at Matanzas, Cuba and resides at IDEN B.

4. Compensation. Commencing on the effective date of this agreement, Subject will be paid compensation at the rate of $448.14 per month. Such payments to be made following completion of satisfactory service.

5. Taxes. Subject will not be obligated to pay U.S. income tax. Tax is not deducted from the above stated paid compensation. Subject is eligible for Social Security. # IDEN C. Subject is married and has a total of three dependents other than himself. Subject's dependents are residing in the U.S., U.S. possessions, Canada, Mexico, the Canal Zone, or the Republic of Panama.

6. Quarters and/or Subsistence. The Subject will not be furnished quarters and/or subsistence when operationally necessary.

7. Operational Expenses. When properly authorized, Subject will be reimbursed for:
a. Operational travel including mileage claims for official use of his personal automobile.
b. Operational hotel expenses, meals, telephone calls, etc.

8. Other Commitments. Bonus. With prior approval of the Chief of Station a bonus may be authorized for outstanding performance in the line of duty. The amount of the bonus will be commensurate with the risks taken and the results which were achieved; amount not to exceed $100.00 per any single bonus payment. In the event of Subject's death in the line of duty, an amount not to exceed $5,000.00 will be paid to Subject's estate.

9. Contingent Obligations. No commitments other than those stated above have been made to the Subject.

SIGNED:

Field Contracting Officer

Contract Approving Officer

REVISED:

SECRET

201-307337

CS COPY

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

SECRET

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT
TO UFGA-16604

IDEN A - Miguel DIAZ Isalgue
IDEN B - 2328 N.E. 6th Avenue, Miami - Florida
IDEN C - Social Security (#265-72-0741)

SECRET

Encl #2 UFGA 16604

AS COPY

201-307337
