```markdown
14-00000

104-10182-10007

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLID: WHITEHOUSE, EDUARDO JULIUS

201-300614

INCLUSIVE DATES: 1960-1971

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY: THIRD SECURITY DECUMENTS

| DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL |
|---|---|---|---|
| 3/13/78 | 3/13/78 | Imile Wizelman | Imile Wizelman |

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.

LEW PROGRAM 197526

--- Page 2 ---

14-00000

24 June 1971

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Eduardo WHITEHOUSE Insua

1. On 22 June 1971, Mr. Ed Sullivan, WH/Security officer, informed DC/WH/COG that he had been advised by SOD that Mr. WHITEHOUSE was in Miami and had some information which he would like to pass to the Agency. Mr. WHITEHOUSE, a Cuban, was a pilot during the Bay of Pigs Invasion and was under contract with the Agency from November 1964 to April 1965 as a pilot under the WITHRUSH Project in the Congo. He has not worked for the Agency since that time.

2. Mr. Sullivan requested SOD to have Mr. WHITEHOUSE use the Domestic Contact Service channel in Miami for passing his information to us.

3. File: 201-300614.

Chris Hopkins

WH/COG/SA

--- Page 3 ---

14-00000

MESSAGE FORM

ORIG: RICHARD HARRINGTON

UNIT: WH/2/HD&ES

EXT: 7163/1946

DATE: 23 JULY 1969

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

TOTAL COPIES: 1

SECRET

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY

INDEX: ☐ NO INDEX

RETURN TO BRANCH

FILE IN CS FILE NO.

(classification) SECRET

(date and time filed)

CITE DIRECTOR

TO: PRIORITY WH/MIAMI INFO PRIORITY TEGUCIGALPA, SAN SALVADOR

FILE RID: 23287

(reference number)

MORNING 23 JULY 1969, IUSTEER PHONED HQS CASE OFFICER AND STATED TEDDY WHITEHOUSE (201-300614) AND UNIDENTIFIED AMERICAN ATTEMPTING HIRE CUBAN PILOTS MIAMI AREA TO FLY F-51 AIRCRAFT TO EL SALVADOR. IUSTEER SOURCES, WHO WERE FOUR CUBAN PILOTS WHO REFUSED OFFER, SAID WHITEHOUSE AND ASSOCIATE BEGAN RECRUITMENT EFFORT CIRCA 14 JULY 1969. WHITEHOUSE OFFERING DEPOSIT $20,000 IN PILOTS BANK ACCOUNT PRIOR HIS DEPARTURE FOR EL SALVADOR IF PILOT AGREES FLY PLANE TO ELSALVADOR AND IN COMBAT.

2. IUSTEER PHONED INFO TO HQS CASE OFFICER WHEN UNABLE CONTACT WH/MIAMI. HQS ATTEMPTING RECONTACT IUSTEER VIA PHONE ORDER OBTAIN FOLLOWUP INFO INCLUDING IDENTITIES ANY PILOTS WHO HAVE ACCEPTED, NAME OF AMERICAN WHO WORKING WITH WHITEHOUSE, IDENTITY OF THEIR EL SALVADOR CONTACT, LOCATION OF PLANES, ETC. IUSTEER DUE DEPART MIAMI BY END OF WEEK AND NOT AVAILABLE TO WH/MIAMI AFTER 25 JULY 1969.

MICROFILMED SEP 10 1969

DOC. MICRO. SER.

RELEASING OFFICER SECRET

COORDINATING OFFICERS

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

(OVER)

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

COPY NO.

--- Page 4 ---

14-00000

MESSAGE FORM

RIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

DATE:

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

TOTAL COPIES: 1

SECRET

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY

INDEX: ☐ NO INDEX

RETURN TO BRANCH

FILE IN CS FILE NO.

(classification) SECRET

(date and time filed)

CITE DIRECTOR

PAGE TWO

(reference number) 33281

REQUEST WH/MIAMI ADVISE ANY CONFIRMATION THIS REPORT AND ANY FOLLOWUP DATA FROM IUSTEER IF POSSIBLE OR OTHER SOURCES.

FILE: 201-283488 AND 201-300614.

END OF MESSAGE

Robert H. Kiefe

WILLIAM V. BROE

C/WHD

C/SOD/AB Paul Gottke (in draft)

WH/COG

JOHN C. MURRAY

AC/WH/2

RELEASING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

COPY NO.

--- Page 5 ---

14-00000

IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION NAME CHECK

DATE: 7 APRIL 1967

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: WHITEHOUSE, ROGELIO ENRIQUE

--- Page 6 ---

IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION NAME TRACE

DATE: 7 APRIL 1967

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: WHITEHOUSE, EDUARDO ROGELIO

--- Page 7 ---

Miami, Fla. August 23 1965

Mr. Gerald Sounders

P.O. Box 831

Miami, Fla.

Dear Jerry:

Wish to thank you for your personal concern and satisfactory solution obtained in the financial settlement of my case.

I consider it a privilege to have worked with you, cooperating in a small way to preserve Democracy in the Republic of Congo.

If I can ever be of service to the United States - beloved country of my ancestors - I would consider it a high honor.

Do let me hear from you and feel sure that I am your devoted friend.

Sincerely,

Teddy

Eduardo J. Whitehouse

446 N. E. 39th St

Miami, Fla.

MICROFICHE

23 AUG 65

201-300614

--- Page 8 ---

14-00000

20 August 1965

MEMORANDUM TO: Chief/KUCURL/HENGEN

FROM: Edward W. LORENTZ

SUBJECT: Eduardo Whitehouse

REFERENCE: Dir-35418

1. Edward W. LORENTZ met with Eduardo Whitehouse on 17 August 1965, relative to finalizing the Whitehouse claim for monies still due from his previous contract. LORENTZ emphasized that he was authorized to pay monies due per contract through 7 April 1965, plus a four day layover in Rome during Whitehouse's return to the U.S. This layover was due a Panam strike of which Whitehouse was inadvertently delayed through no fault of his own.

2. The aforegoing authority is based on ref and calculated as follows:

A. Base Pay for March - USD 800.

B. Base Pay 7/30 for April - USD 186.66 plus USD equivalent of USD 41.00 for actual expenses while 2 days in Rome.

C. Total USD 1027.66.

3. Whitehouse although feeling that he should be allowed the full amounts due amounting to USD 1950.00 has accepted such adjudication of his claim. LORENTZ feels that possibly he was sufficiently satisfied that he received any funds, that probably in his sense of fair play that the case might be considered closed. For the record, what medical treatment received by Whitehouse amounted to under USD 200. To further complete the record the following attachments are enclosed:

A. Letter from Dr. Elkhoury.

B. Second letter from Whitehouse to Jack Anderson, Leop.

C. Letter from Whitehouse to LORENTZ.

D. Bills of actual charges in Rome.

E. Receipt from Whitehouse for final payment.

F. Station memo concerning newspaper inquiry.

--- Page 9 ---

14-00000

4. Less than 24 hours after facing Whitehouse to advise him that his claim of USD 1950 had been reduced to 1027.66, Whitehouse reacted with the newspaper media in an exemplary manner when he could have reacted with a adverse feeling. The Subject despite difficulties encountered in the field with KUBARK advisors appears to be man of honor and certainly under controlled situations as professional pilot and could be an asset to KUBARK interests.

Edward W. Lorentz

--- Page 10 ---

POLYCLINIQUE DU

DOCTEUR ELKHOURY

Avenue Vandenbeure

LEOPOLDVILLE, KALINA

Telephone 3159

Boite Postale 1775

201-300614

--- Page 11 ---

14-00000

Col.

Miami, Min. June 10th 1965

POOR QUALITY DOCUMENT

--- Page 12 ---

Mr. Jerry Sounders

P.O. Box 831

Int. Airport

Miami, Fla.

Miami, Fla. August 13 1965

Dear Mr. Sounders:

Three months have passed by since my return from Leopoldville and as I explained to you in our last meetings, the amounts corresponding to the basic pay of March, April and up to the 13th of May, when my contract expired- are still unpaid therefore leaving an outstanding balance of $1950.00 in my favor.

Although I appreciate your concern in this case, I wish to informed about certain facts concerning my work in the Congo that will explain how every cent of the mentioned amount was earned.

When pilot Fausto Gomez was shot down near Bunia -Dec. 17th 1964- that Air Base became paralized as two of the pilots resigned and the only one remaining was ready to leave. Every one refused to take charge of the Bunia Base because of the proximity of the rebels, dangerous terrain, living conditions below standards, improper food, etc. Under these adverse circumstances I accepted the position of Chief Pilot and left the comfortable quarters of Stanleyville. Arrived to Bunia Dec. 25th 1964 and next day reasured full air operations against the rebels flying two and three missions per day as squadrom leader with now unexperienced pilots. Those less did not have shooting, combat maneuvering instruction, therefore I instructed then and also in Dead Reckoning, instrument flying, etc. We hit the enemy day by day forcing them to retreat to the very border of Northeast Congo. M. Godofroid Munongo -Minister of the Interior- personally congratulated us for our accomplishments in behalf of the Congo.

When I became ill, due to improper food, parasites, etc., I was ordered back to Leopoldville for medical treatment. Unable to recover and having lost 25 pounds, Dr. Elkhoury suggested is return to Miami for a more adequate treatment. Photostatic copy of certificate are attached. Left Leopoldville April 3 1965 with the understanding that my contract was not being cancelled.

I sincerely believe that my work and dedication throughout the entire campaing in Northeast Congo deserved the full payment of the mentioned contract.

Your consideration to this matter would be appreciated.

Sincerely,

E. J. Whitehouse

CC: R. Telford

--- Page 13 ---

14-00000

VIA XX SETTEMBRE 30

TEL. 463036

Sig. Whitehouse

Duto.

Appartamento.

Arrangiamento

Comostici

Piccola coluzione

Uova Frutta.

Caffetteria

Spremute

Colazione

Pranzo

RISTORANTE

Gelati Pustice. Sandwiches.

Vini

Liquori

Birra

Acqua Minerali

Bibite

Bar

Autobus

Gei

Riscaldamento

Biancheria Stiroria

Telefono.

Totale dal giorno

Riporta

Totale

Pagamenti

Totale

Imposta d'entrata

Hallo di Quietanza

Servizio

TOTALE GENERALE

App. N. K

I Sigg. Chenti sono pregali di pagaro il conto entro il giorno della prosentazione.

--- Page 14 ---

14-00000

A. BERGO REALE - Roma

VIA XX SETTEMBRE, 30

Sig. Whitehouse

D. BORETTI Prop.

Telefono interurbano

Camara N. 1557

Bollo

TOTALE

POOR QUALITY DOCUMENT

201-300614

--- Page 15 ---

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

FILE NO.

RETURN TO BRANCH

FROM

ACTION

INFO

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

TOTAL COPIES 2

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

ADVANCE COPY

FILE, VR, AFT, WHICH,

SECRET

DIR CITE WAVE

CHAPPIE WITHRUSH SECUR PBRUMEN

REF: WAVE 5124

9 Aug 65 IN 35-137

IDENTITIES:

A. JANICE MITAYA, AKA JANICE ROMAN, CLAIMS SECRETARY TO IDEN B.

B. ROBERT ROGERS, NATIONAL BROADCASTING COMPANY.

CFN 5105 5:04 A JANICE MIYAYA AKA JANICE ROMAN 2 B ROBERT ROGERS NATIONAL BROADCASTING COMPANY

SECRET

MICROFICHE

19 AUG 65

201-300614

--- Page 16 ---

14-00000

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

FILE NO.

RETURN TO BRANCH

FROM JMWAVE

ACTION

INFO

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

TOTAL COPIES 2

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

ADVANCE COPY

UNIT

TIME

FILE, VR, AFT, WHICH

LORENTZ MIAMI SENDS

EDUARDO

IDEN REPRESENTING

OBTAINING BACKGROUND AND

19 Aug 65 IN 35139

AS CONTACTED TELEPHONE ON 18 AUG

IDEN REQUESTING AN INTERVIEW PURPOSE

ON HER OWN PROUTS IN CONTENTION WITH

SHIP WHILE LEOP TO

2. IUSTEER RECE

SAME INFO USER ADVISED ALTHOUGH

ATRON ALL PRUM DEN REQUESTING

PMRUMEN FILLES HAD NOT

AUNTED

RECTION AND

SOME

NOTHING FINTH

INDICATI ARE TOEN PROBABLY SAME SUBJ, WAVE 930 (NBA)

NATION PROBAB

JUSTER PUR, ICATE

SERA:

CHENT EARL

ANG OFFICIAL 8 98655

TO INTERVIEW PILOTS

2 ME PERUMEN A TOSTLER

SECRET

MICROFICHE

19 AUG 65

201-300614

--- Page 17 ---

MESSAGE FORM

ORIG: DIRECTOR

UNIT:

EXT: 4478

DATE: 12 AUG 1965

TO: WAVE (FOR LORENTZ)

FROM: DIRECTOR

INDEX: ☐ NO INDEX

FILE IN CS FILE NO. 201-300614

INFO: WAVE (FOR LORENTZ)

CHAPPIE WITHRUSH PBRUMEN

REF: WAVE 4430

CITE DIR 35418

EK REF AND TELECON WITH LORENTZ 5 AUG, RECOMMEND SUBJ (W) BE PAID SALARY THROUGH 7 APR 65 (DATE RETURNED MIAMI) AND ALL MEDICAL EXPENSES DUE ILLNESS RELATED CONGO TOUR.

HQS DES THIS SETTLEMENT GENEROUS IN VIEW W PERFORMANCE IN CONGO, GROUNDED SIX WEEKS, RETURNED PRIOR EXPIRATION CONTRACT, PLUS FIELD EVALUATION AS MARGINAL PILOT AND TROUBLESOME PROBLEM. REALIZE THIS MAKES W SHORT FIVE WEEKS SALARY; ON HAND KUBARK SHORT ELEVEN WEEKS HIS CONTRACTED SERVICES AS PILOT.

2. FI, FROM REVIEW W 201 FILE, BELIEVE W REASONABLE ENOUGH ACCEPT ABOVE SETTLEMENT GRACEFULLY. DESIRE LORENTZ DO UTMOST SETTLE CASE PER ABOVE TERMS. HOWEVER, IF IT APPARENT W UNHAPPY ENOUGH TO CAUSE UNFAVORABLE PUBLICITY, LORENTZ AUTHORIZED NEGOTIATE SETTLEMENT UP TO TOTAL REMAINDER SIX MONTHS SALARY.

END OF MESSAGE

Reqqa decision re subj claims for back pay.

WILLIAM V. BROE

BERNARD J. FINAN, JR.

C/SOD/AB

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

--- Page 18 ---

14-00000

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

REF TO FILE NO.

FILE RID ☐ RET. TO BRANCH

FROM JMWAVE

ACTION

INFO

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

TOTAL COPIES

ADVANCE COPY

UNIT

TIME

FILE VR WHICH, AF7, CI/OA

CIR SITE WAVE 4432

CHAPPIE WITHRUSH PBRUMEN

TOF: DIP 31462

LORENTO MIAMI SENDS:

IF ANY HOS DECISION

WHITE

RELATIVE TO ELAD

AT THOUGH CLAR PACK PAY

LORE TE

SECRET

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

29 JUL 65

201-300614

--- Page 19 ---

14-00000

TO: HENGEN

FROM: Edward W. LORENTZ

SUBJECT: Eduardo Julius Whitehouse

12 July 1965

1. As we both know the Whitehouse case has been kicked around sufficiently that the finalizing of the case should be effected as soon as possible. My trip with Larry Murphy to Dow Leutcher's office, in my estimation didn't produce any effective decision. Mr. Leutcher's point of view was, if the man was due the money, pay him. If he was not due the money, don't pay him. I will give you the facts as I see them and if you feel that it is prudent to seek the advice of Jack Anderson for his opinion I'm sure it will be most helpful.

2. A. LEOP-7030 dated 30 May, indicates receipt of (W) intention to terminate contract effective 13 May. OK Additionally, stipulates (W) incapacitated six weeks and requests authorization for immediate return and treatment.

Your 97928 of 1 April, concurs requests of Leop. Additionally, you stipulate to terminate contract the day the Subject departs Leop.

3. LEOP-8028 of 2 April, stipulates that Leop, "terminating (W) contract and returning first available". Requires medical attention not available Leop. Malady due conditions advance basis complicated lact of proper medical attention and maltreatment.

4. B: Para 2 same message, indicated another medical case (Menedez) would remain Leop dispite fact he finds man want, can contribute nothing".

LEOP-8054 states (W) departed 3 April, via PAA, transferring flight in Rome. (W) presented me with three days Hotel bills in Rome to cover what he considered evacuation flight plus PAA on strike.

5. LEOP-8117 dated 7 April, allowed Perez to depart 8 April and recommended approval to pay full salary till 25 April. (Opinion is this a case of paying a man full salary on one hand while not paying another under the same circumstances)?

6. DIR-99498 of 7 April, requested details of (W) medical case.

7. LEOP-7150 dated 28 May, stipulates (W) returned on violation not "Leop request". Instructed contact Heston to execute voluntary termination of contract not executed. (W) departure 3 April not at Leop request. (Opinion in a contractual relationship it appears

--- Page 20 ---

14-00000

-2-

highly unlikely to "request" someone to leave or terminate written agreement. Wouldn't one direct in lieu of request)?

8. WAVE-0832 dated 16 April, gave medical evaluation which was reviewed by WAVE Medical personnel. (Opinion in debriefing of Subject I was personally convinced this man was sick. Furthermore, (W) advised that he is in possission of medical report by Dr. El Khorury that it was manditory for (W) to be evacuated for adequate medical treatment.

9. WAVE-k457 dated 3 May, indicated (W) still under going continuous medical treatment.

10. On April 19, (W) signed our local Quit Claim Form, but recent conversation with the Subject indicated that he felt that although the Form was signed that the "company would live up to its promises".

11. There is no doubt that (W) was ill and based upon medical opinion, as late as 7 May, in my personal observation that the man was incompatiated from performing a full time job that based upon the fact that no definitive or written agreement was made prior to departure, that the Subject be paid in full for the six months term of his contract. (Opinion there is know doubt in my mind that this man firmly believes that he is entitled to the salary based strictly upon the fact that he was "evacuated" not terminated.

12. I don't feel the man is unscrupulous enough to blackmail to obtain what he feels is truthfully his, but feel positive that he will speak to anyone of influence to assist in obtaining back salaries that he feels is his. Cite the five reasonably important personnel references that he lists on his Job Application Form. We are not dealing with the common type individual using vealied threats, but someone who is an intelligent individual who at one time exerted enough influence on Jack Anderson to appoint a Chief Pilot and further influence Gen. Lewis Walsh into taking action to hire some of his buddys.

Edward W. Lorentz

--- Page 21 ---

SECRET

CANCELLATION TO DIVISION

DATE 15 June 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR: CHIEF, OPS/3/AB/SOD

ATTENTION: David Lamoureux

file 201-300614

The file on WHITEHOUSE Insua, Eduardo Julius is cancelled and closed in CI/OA for the following reason:

Failure to submit PRQ-II as required under CS1 No. 10-5 or to indicate any further interest in obtaining approval for the operational use of Subject.

Prior to any future use of Subject, it will be necessary to furnish a new approval request (Form #772) to CI/OA.

/s/ Edward P. Brown

CHIEF, CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

--- Page 22 ---

ALSIFIED HESCARE

SECRET

REPRODUCTION PROT

LEOP-9150

28 MAY 65 IN 78194

ASIC DETAILS SEATON WHITEHOUSE (W) RETURN EXPLAINED LEOP 7977, W RETURNED OWN VOLITION NOT LEOP REQUEST.

INSTRUCTED CONTACT HESTON EXECUTE VOLUNTARY TERMINATION CONTRACT, HOT EXECUTED. W DEPARTURE 3 APRIL NOT AT LEOP REQUEST.

PREVIOUSLY NOTIFIED STA INTENT TERMINATE CONTRACT END SIX MONTHS.

PROVIDING MEDICAL DIAGNOSIS PBPRIME CONFIRMED. LOCAL

DICAL EXPENSES NO COMMITMENTS

--- Page 23 ---

14-00000

WILLIAM SCOTT PIPER, M. D.

2506 PONCE DE LEON BLVD.

CORAL GABLES, FLORIDA

25 May 1965

Mr. Roberto Medell

P.O. Box 831

Miami International Airport

Miami, Fla. 33148

Re: WHITEHOUSE, EDUARDO J.

Dear Mr. Medell,

Mr. Whitehouse was seen by me 8 April 1965 for a return physical examination. All laboratory and Xray that date was relative the complete physical examination.

The $10.00 charge for treatment included injection, medicine and prostate massage. There was no extra Charge for sinus treatment.

Office visits from April 9th through 28th were primarily for his tenseness and apprehension. The only additional charge, relative his sinus condition, was a $20.00 charge for sinus Xrays on April 9, 1965.

Sincerely yours,

William S. Piper, M.D.

WSP: bk

MICROFICHE

25 MAY 65

201-300614

--- Page 24 ---

14-00000

MESSAGE FORM

ORIG: F. DALY

UNIT: SOD/AB/OPS/3

EXT: 4475

DATE: 20 May 1965

TO: LEOPOLDVILLE

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: SOD 6

INFO: AF 6, WH/C8, CI/OA, PSI, VR, FILE

CITE DIR 12727

CHAPPIE WITHRUSH FORUMEN

REF: LEOP 8028

PLS ADVISE PRECISE DETAILS RE WHITEHOUSE (W) TERMINATION.

REF A. INDICATES TERMINATION BEING ACCOMPLISHED. HOWEVER W NOW STATES HE RETURNED AT LEOP REQUEST WHILE STILL UNDER CONTRACT FOR PURPOSE OF CONTRACT-PROVIDED MEDICAL TREATMENT. THEREFORE HE WANTS PAYMENT COVERING PRESENT MEDICAL BILLS AND BACK SALARY.

END OF MESSAGE

Tom Baskett. (Phone)

E. N. KORN-PATTERSON

BERNARD J. FINAN, JR.

C/SOD/AB

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

Copy No.

--- Page 25 ---

14-00000

mithram required approximately twenty-five hours T-28 instruction Loop prior to field deployment. Mentioned very marginally as Chief Pilot Data and eventually requested transfer to multi-engine. Due to apprehension under himself physically and mentally incapable of tactical flight.

It is my opinion that he should not be considered for any future tactical operations and would not be acceptable for re-contract in Connection with transport pilots.

along with Ave Falcon and Vallicierge, that eventually hampered transport operations. Is too old and not physically capable of enduring sustained field operations. Indicated desire to return to Congo, but do not feel he would contribute anything to flight operations. Limited to co-pilot only duties which not desirable this operation.

18 MAY 65

201-300614

--- Page 26 ---

14-00000

14 May 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, SOD/Air Branch

SUBJECT: WITHRUSH Contract

1. On Wednesday, 12 May 1965, I discussed with Mr. Dow Letcher, OP/CPD, the WITHRUSH contract with which you are familiar and under which Eduardo Whitehouse served in the Congo. This is the standard contract for Cuban and European WITHRUSH pilot employees. Specifically, I was interested in learning from Mr. Letcher if he believed Paragraph 7 D could be applicable to the case of Mr. Whitehouse since Mr. Whitehouse desires assistance in paying medical bills for a physical disability (which may be temporary) which may have been incurred while he was serving with us in the Congo.

2. This memorandum makes record of the fact that, judging from what Mr. Letcher had to say about the WITHRUSH contract, and also in view of Mr. Ben DeFelice's recently expressed concern regarding the benefits aspects of that contract, action should be taken to review and, if necessary, revise the contract at the earliest possible date. This stems from the strong possibility that Cuban pilots who suffer injuries or disabilities while serving with WITHRUSH may wish, as in the case of Whitehouse, to obtain benefits after the termination of the contract, for conditions which originates during the term of the contract.

3. On 12 May 1965 I provided Mr. Letcher with a draft form of a proposed WITHRUSH contract pertaining to rotary wing aircraft pilots only and asked that he review it and judge its adequacy.

Frank Daly

SOD/AB/OPS/3

Distribution:

Attn: Mr. Ben DeFelice

Attn: Mr. P. Letcher

OP/CPD

SOD/PERS

SOD/AB/OPS/3

SOD/RI

Chrono

F.DALY:kas (13 May, Betty

--- Page 27 ---

14-00000

WILLIAM SCOTT PIPER, M. D.

UNIVERSITY CLINIC

106 PONCE DE LEON BLVD.

CORAL GABLES, FLORIDA

7 May 1965

Mr. Roberto Medell

OFFICE PHONE: 6-8474

RESIDENCE PHONE: MI 8-5105

April 1, 1965

--- Page 28 ---

14-00000

WILLIAM SCOTT PIPER, M. D.

2506 PONCE DE LEON BLVD.

CORAL GABLES, FLORIDA

7 May 1965

Mr. Roberto Medell

P.O. Box 831

Miami International Airport

Miami, Fla. 33148

Re: WHITEHOUSE, EDUARDO

Dear Mr. Medell,

Mr. Whitehouse has had sinus trouble off and on for many years. This has been increased recently, probably due to pressure changes in aircraft.

It has been advised that he have a nasal operation for deviated septum. This structural defect is in no way related to his occupation.

Sincerely yours,

William S. Piper, M.D.

WSP:bk

--- Page 29 ---

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES

FROM Jm Wave

ACTION

INFO

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

UNIT

TIME

SECRET

DIR CITE WAVE 1451

CHAPPIE WITHRUSH MEDIC PBRUMEN

REF: WAVE-0832

LORENTZ MIAMI SENDS:

1. LOCAL CLEARED MEDIC TREATING EDUARDO WHITEHOUSE ADVISES SUBJ NOT RESPONDING TREATMENT ACUTE AND CHRONIC SINUSITIS. LOCAL ENT EPECIALIST RECOMMENDS SUBMUCOUS RESECTION FOR CORRECTION DEVIATED SEPTUM.

2. REQUEST HQS OPINION IF SURGERY CAN BE PERFORMED UNDER TERMS OF CONTRACT AND CITE SUBJ WAS MEDICALLY CLEARED PRIOR DEPARTURE FOR CONGO.

3. FORWARDING MEDIC REPORT VIA POUCH.

SECRET

--- Page 30 ---

14-00000

TO Chief, KUCURL

FROM Chief, TUPAGAN

SUBJECT WITHRUSH Crew Training Report

Dispatch No. UAFA-0099

Date:

REFERENCE DIR 85744, paragraph 3 (D).

Forwarded herewith is subject report of training and pilot evaluation conducted by Carlisle B. FORNEGAR as requested per reference.

Attachment:

a/a h/w

s/c (Idens)

Distribution:

0 & 2-XUCURL

2-TUBAGAN

Philip L. MUSHER

Chief, TUPAGAN

--- Page 31 ---

14-00000

Attachment to Dispatch N

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: WITHRUSH Crew, Training Report

1. The object of the crew training was to test each pilot on his knowledge of the aircraft systems and emergency procedures and to check ride each pilot and give him refresher training as required.

2. The following named pilots received ground and flight training as listed below:

| Iden | Ground School and Flight Hours |
|---|---|
| A | 10+00 |
| B | 6+00 |
| C | 8+00 |
| D | 26+00 |
| E | 26+00 |
| F | 1.20+00 |
| G | 7+20 |
| H | Obs. 10+40 Trg. 8+05 |
| I | 6+20 |

3. Evaluation of each pilot as follows:

a. Iden A - Had flown C-46 about 1200 hours before and was picking it up very nicely. I gave several engine out - single engine landing and go-arounds - no flap landing - emergency gear extension. Short field landings several ILS approaches.

b. Iden C - Was the pilot who cracked up the other C-46, plus he was unwilling to fly at night. I gave him 1½ hours of air time and recommended he be used only as a co-pilot on grounds of poor head work.

c. Iden B - He to an older pilot who would bounce the airplane and then sit there waiting for it to hit again, without adding power to let it down easy. He also wanted to feather the wrong engine after one was cut. Recommended he only be used as a co-pilot.

d. Iden D - He had been flying in and around Iden J for several years, however, in his training he was quite sloppy in his flying. he would not come within 200 of assigned heading turns at the begining.

--- Page 32 ---

14-00000

Also he was very rough with the airplane in pitch control. On ILS approaches he would vary the manifold pressure from 12" to 30" to try and stay on the glide slope. On short field landing and take-off after about six of them he started approaching the procedures I was trying to show him, but I was convinced as soon as I left the area he would return to his own style of flying. I recommended that at the end of his six month contract which was about 30 days away he be terminated.

e. Iden E. This man had previous C-46 experience of about 2000 hours. He showed great interest and did a good job from the beginning. I recommended he be used as PIC in C-46's.

f. Iden F - This man was suppose to have had a good deal experience, but his flying left very much to be desired. He had just been convalescening from amebic dysentery. He replied when asked, that he felt up to flying but his performance was very poor. He decided he still didn't feel up to flying and returned to the doctor's care.

g. Iden G - Had previous multi-engine experience and co-pilot time in the B-26's. He progressed satisfactory and with 7+20 hours was released to the field to fly in right seat to observe tactics and gain more experience before moving to left seat as PIC.

h. Iden H - Had limited experience, however, he was very interested and applied himself to the task of checking out in the B-26K. He was very helpful in reproducing power limitations and power setting for the CB-16-17 series engine and also reproduced the Paw pamphlet on the CB-16-17 series engines, which I had brought along as a training aid. This was made required reading material for all B-26 drivers. This man rode along as an observer while Iden G was being trained, which aided him when he started flying. I recommended he also be released to the field and ride the right seat to observe tactics and gain more experience before flying missions in the left seat.

i. Iden I - The Chief, Pilot of the group is a very capable pilot who applies himmelf very well. He appears to be interested in improving the professional standards of his pilots. I had several rides with Him (6+20) until I felt he would be able to instruct the rest of the pilots in the proper procedures to be used in the B-26K's.

4. The training program was quite curtailed by the restrictions to Iden K. Most of the pilots were required to remain out in the field to meet operational needs. Also only one B-26 was available in Iden K which

--- Page 33 ---

14-00000

was in check till 18 March and then was not available two other days because of maintenance.

15. I recommend that Air Operations Officers be checked out in the equipment they are supervisors for in order to keep on top of their pilots proficiency. The pilots that are sent over should be screened better so as not to