14-00000

104-10183-10232

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

CONFIDENTIAL

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

TO:
NAME AND ADDRESS | INITIALS | DATE
1. (Bill Wainwright) | (Bryant)
2.
3.
4.
5.

ACTION
[ ] APPROVAL [ ] DIRECT REPLY [ ] PREPARE REPLY
[ ] COMMENT [ ] DISPATCH [ ] RECOMMENDATION
[ ] FILE [ ] CONCURRENCE [ ] INFORMATION [ ] SIGNATURE [ ] RETURN

Remarks:
RE attached on AMWHIF-1 and (Siegelman)

Please get word to A-1 that if he sees (redacted) to get as much info from him on his current situation in Brazil, who he knows in Cuban community and Cubans he knows in Cuba. Naturally, without exposing his (A-1's) connections with us.

WE/5 will handle contact with Charlie Davis and subsequent contact, if any, with (redacted).

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.
(redacted)

FORM 2-41237 Use previous editions

CONFIDENTIAL

14-00000

Chief, WHO

Chief of Station, Rio de Janeiro

Subject of 201-728615

AR: Paragraph 2. (Quareix Siegel in Siegelman)

Refs: A. HAMM-5816
B. HBRA-11177

1. Subject applied for, and was granted on 29 April 1964, a 15-day tourist visa to the United States. He told the consular officer that he planned to leave on about 10 May for France, where he planned to stay for a month or more before going to the United States. He plans to contact the following friends there:

Mr. and Mrs. Henri Maalish
119-33 72nd Ave.
Forest Hills 75
New York

Mr. and Mrs. John Duys
1 East 66th St.
New York 21, New York

Mr. and Mrs. H. Gilbert Smith
Dockboard
2 Canal St.
New Orleans, La.

2. If Subject also contacts AMWHIP-1, it is requested that the latter debrief him on his PERIMEN contacts here and, if he appears to be operationally useful, that a contact be set up in Rio de Janeiro, as requested in Reference B.

Distribution:
4- WHO
c- Files

30 April 1964

Harry V. WITHERSY
HBRA-10952
