hroa~10308-10044 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: AMBRUSH Organization
Job # 63-345/6
File # 19-5-6
Dated included: Apr 61 - Jan 62.
Volumes: 1

1. Description:
Revolutionary Council Anti-Castro Security and
Counter-Intelligence Team.

2. Findings:
No findings in relation to the terms of reference.
Of possible interest: A document dated 19 August
1961 source: AMPAL-1, hand carried to Hqs. from WAVE
in August 1961. The document mentions "Cuban Communist
penetration agents in all branches of importance of the
U.S. Government"... Mentions a possible "Castro
penetration into the Frente (FRD - Revolutionary
Democratic Front) and U.S. activities".

3. Other Agencies with Knowledge of this Activity:
Apparently, none.

(Barbara Boyle)
Researcher

CDH comment: Check out Eugenio MARTINEZ again.
(SDIPSTREAM-1 said in 1976 that one Eugenio MARTINEZ was working
for the Cubans. A Eugenio MARTINEZ was involved in the Watergate;
a former JMWAVE Station agent.

August 19/61
Enclosed find an approximate list of expenses that (Armando Munero)
gave me for consideration. However, he would like to talk it over
as to the rest of his stay in the U. S.

Armando Munero enclosed a note he asked to have sent over, "La Voz a
las Americas"(onda corta--short wave). This is supposed to be some
sort of signal to his O. P. C. group in Cuba to get behind and
cooperate with information and sabotage.
I did not talk to him as yet since I am awaiting word from you as to
this Monday's meetings with him.

August 19/61
Jacinto Luzarraga, a friend from Cuba and former sugar mill owner,
and father-in-law of Lino Fernandez (MRR, now in jail at the Isle of
Pines), told me that Dr. Antonio Valdes Rodriguez (30th of Noviembre
Movimiento) was taken to jail after returning to Cuba from Miami last time here, and not yet released. Jacinto arrived here with
his wife and 3 grandchildren about 5 days ago. He was formerly a
member of the famous old Cuban ABC Group. It should be remembered
that Dr. (Valdes) received training in S/W, his last trip here.

August 19/61
Ben Volpe, now working at Holiday Tours, Biscayne Blvd., Miami, told
me that his father, having come from Cuba a few days ago, told him
that Federico Claramont, 1100 10th St., Miami Beach (living close to
them), is a suspected member of Castro's G-2 and known as such since
being in Cuba. He arrived in the U. S., Miami, as a political exile
which is a cover for his true mission here, and status.

August 19/61
Jacinto Luzarraga and his relative told me that it is being rumored
that since only men are taken to Opa Locka by Immigration for 48 hours,
Fidel Castro is sending in many G-2 women instead of men for his
clandestine operations here, between here and Cuba. I also heard
rumored that some of these agents are sent to tie in with Communists
in the U. S., various regions of the U. S. I have no other info. on
this as could not find out more since it was told to me as a rumor.

August 19/61
Armando Munero told me that he gets information from his uncle
Guillermo Rojas, a long time Cuban Communist who is presently working
in the Imprenta Nacional at Havana. He helped (supposed to be one of

Cont'd.
the main) organize the library of the Communist throughout Cuba.
His uncle told him that Kruschev promised Fidel Castro that he would
have missles in Cuba (this was a few months ago). Also, his uncle said
that the Russians have spies in the Pentagon that pull for Fidel
Castro, and they have already plenty of agents belonging to the
Communists in all branches of importance of the U. S. Gov't., and
even in the CIA.

He said that all people in Cuba that worked with
the CIA were picked up through their agents and those presently
working with same are being watched closely. (Munero) told me that
he is kind of suspicious of Eugenio, his being Cuban and because of
a sort of sixth sense, as he calls it.

August 19/61
Bart told me last week that Juez Garceran was the one that sent the
letter you received to Carlos Prio as he recognized the handwriting
on both envelopes. The above judge told Bart that some have been
given Salvo Conductos to Mexico and that the Italian Embassy is
emptying out same. This judge is the one that made the list of
people held up in the Italian Embassy, that you received from Bart.
Bart told me that he thought that Alberto Del Junco (MDC), that I am
in touch with, is getting aid from someone from the U. S. Gov't.
Del Junco's sister saw him this past Friday night at his home and
gave him $5,000.00 in U. S. Dollars (money) to send through the Post
to Cuba to be given to her brother down there. She didn't want to
disclose to Bart where and from whom she received the money, and
only said that it was from his group (MDC) here. Bart thinks that
this is not true. He sent the money down already.

Enclosed (marked in pencil, #7) find photostatic copies of letters
sent to Oscar Diaz from former F.Castro Pres. Urrutia and from a
Macaroni that Bart knows. It is self explanatory in Spanish and
Bart says that he knows that the air strips shown on enclosed map
are truly in existence. Bart received these photostatic copies due
to his suggesting same to Oscar Diaz upon delivery. I couldn't bring
this letter to you a few nights ago as he had to deliver same in an
hour of the time I visited him. However, I suggested his trying to
stand by when the letter was opened. Oscar Diaz liked Bart's idea of
making photostatic copies of same and Bart asked for one for himself.

Cont'd.
It seems that Captain Despain wants to break up the Intell. Service
of the Frente due to lack of funds, says Dr. F'dez. However, due to
having tried to find out whether this Captain Despain was Ernesto,
we were not sure. Having been introduced upon our 2nd visit last
Friday, 9:30 A. M.(first visit was 2 days previously at 9:30 A.M.)
we were presented to Ernesto Despain, the person we were looking for
some time now (due to his relations with Ceferino Alvarez (G-2) and
Josefina Socarras (Ceferino's girl friend, of whom I have been writing
about for some time now). We started to get places, with all full
cooperation, the first time there as we spoke only to Dr. Fidez. The
second time, with Despain present, we felt that we should not go into
many details. Dr. F'dez. told us that Despain was planning on sending
him with a delegation to Puerto Rico. I feel, as well as Frank, that
this Dr. Fidez. (around 60 yrs. old) is a person that could very easily
organize his office to be of very valuable service against Castro and
his Communists here in the States, as well as in Latin America where
they already have their own agents operating. It is felt that Despain
is trying to get Dr. F'dez. out of the way because he recognizes the
importance of the planned Intelligence Service the Frente through
F'dez., which could produce a very strong arm against Castro.
Dr. Fidez. says that they are now working on the ABC form as used
against a former president of Cuba known as Machado. Enclosed is
an idea of how this group functions and are placed into many walks of
life of importance to this cause. Their work is mainly of Intell.
Service and in a form of cooperating with the U.S. Gov't. in all ways
possible without trying to get monies, if possible, to function. He is
presently trying to get donations to $300.00 to keep his office going
for a month. Upstairs in the same building, they have radio operators
(very well experienced) continuously monitoring all phases of import-
ance in Cuba (sugar mills, etc.). Frank Asked Despain if the files he
had in his hands was for us. Despain was caught a little off bounds
as he became somewhat unnerved, but soon rallied and opened the file
showing data on boats, but taking great pains to keep us from seeing
the contents. I didn't want to press the point arousing any suspicion.
Dr. F'dez. introduced me as a Joe Anderson, FBI man. I had formerly
cautioned him against referring to me as anything special, which he

Cont'd.
did anyway. I let it go at that to see the developments as it was
no use to refute him again. However, when we parted, I did mention
him again that he should not do so at random as I did not think it
necessary nor what we had agreed upon. Dr. F'dez. did say so as he
introduced us to Despain as his Jefe (chief) and wanted to show his
loyalty at the same time explaining to him that he was cooperating
with us in all ways possible against Castro and Communism, which it was
plainly seen that Despain didn't like at all. Despain sat silent,
no questions asked, hard, eyeing us as if waiting to see how far the
FBI had gotten into matters of the Frente. I did not ask the Dr. the
questions I wanted to and only said that I would like to be in touch
with him at all times. Enclosed you will find photostatic copies of
letters sent by Cubans here to Prague and the answers of same. You
told me to ask him how he got this information. I did not feel that I
should have done so at the moment. However, I will be in touch with
Dr. Fidez. again soon as I said I would. I will not go to the office
of this Intell. again as I was almost seen by a Frank Paez, Pepe
Aguero's friend. Pepe Aguero is Paula Grau's husband, now here. I
turned my head away, I think, in time. Dr. Fdez. says that he has loads
of more information to give me and that loads of stuff reaches him
daily, all of which he can turn over to me for study. He said that he
will get for me CIA files that the Frente has hidden and want to share
with him. I feel, if Despain, is out of the way, I could do much in
getting what is needed of them. I do not feel safe with him around.
I may be wrong, but that is the way I feel about security with him.
I promised to return the enclosed photostatic copies but feel that all
of the files can be taken over for copy for the asking, as Dr. Fl.
said he would cooperate to the fullest.

Dr. Jose Julio Fernandez: Office (9 to 11 A.M.): FR-1-5133
Home (from 8 P.M. to 8 A.M.): HI-4-1853
Frente (from 11:30 A.M. to 1 P.M.):
FR-4-2650-58-59
He holds a Frente Carnet No. 102, Frente Revolucionario Democratico
(F.R.D.), Delegacion de: El Salvador (Rescate) and receives $200.00
monthly as a salary from the Frente.

August 19/61
Frank Arias has given me the following information (about DESPAIN).
Captain (Lieutenant, known formerly as) Ernesto Despain, head of the
Frente Intelligence Service at 158 14th Lane, Miami, with entrance
in back of building at 15th Street, off Brickell Ave., worked for/with Ceferino Alvarez (G-2, known as) in Government Insurance (Seguro del
Gobierno) and formerly in the now non-existent BANSECO (branch of the
National Bank of Cuba). Josefina Socarras worked with them also in
Seguro del Gobierno. I have written of Josefina before through the
findings of Frank, who knew them all in Cuba (not Despain directly,
only his family). This Captain Despain is an intimate friend of
Ceferino and Josefina (planning to go to New York soon). She has been
trying to get something started here, as reported before. It is
strongly urged that this Josefina be surveilled constantly as I,
as well as Frank, think that she is affiliated with Castro's clandestine
activities here in the States. She received monthly checks from the
Centro Refugiado. Captain Despain is planning on going to join the
U. S. Army. He is definitely strongly suspected of giving everything
of Intelligence to Castro and is tied in with the Communist and Castro
groups here. He may even soon plan to disappear from the scene and
should not be allowed to get off easily. He has been keeping Dr.
Jose Julio Fernandez from organizing his anti-Castro and Anti-Communist
files due to lack of funds (says Despain). It seems that this was just
an excuse before and was done to keep the ball functioning as should
be. I think that this Dr. Jose Julio Fernandez is very sincere and
is innocently giving everything into the hands of Despain without
knowing. How Despain got into this position is not known by us yet.
As far as we are concerned he is a Castro penetration into the Frente
and U. S. activities.

The above is the result of being sent to see Dr. Jose Julio Fernandez,
head of Intelligence Service of the Frente (as told us by Former
Cuban Grl. Socallanes, friend of Frank). I went with Frank to try to
find out about a woman whose son (one of two of them) had taken data
and pictures for Castro of all military and naval installations in the
State of Florida.

Enclosed find the groups belonging to the Frente that was written
for me by this Dr. Fidez.
Enclosed find (#8 marked) "Reporte and Informe" (2 sheets) given me by
Dr. F'dez. to show what they are doing now.
Dr. D'dez. informed me of the following:
(a). A Communist militant; Alberto Iglesias, 425 Cedar Lane, East
Meadow, New York (Phones: IV-1-4368 and IV-6-4547). He is a
Resident of the U. S. for more than 20 years. He has his
business, "American Welding and Boiler Works Co.". This is a
man to be watched as he even uses his business as a front.
(b). Mario Garcia, Miami Ventilated Awning Co., Inc. (works at):
presently asking Immigration permission to go to Cuba and is
considered as one of Fidel Castro's heads here with a great
many ties.
Enclosed find a break down of expenses of the Frente Intell. Office
given me by Dr. F'dez., my asking him for same. Frank Arias is
helping the Dr. get funds for the maintenance of this office for at
least another month. I think that this set up should be taken into
study.

August 21/61
Enclosed find marked #9, 2 documents, given me by Emmanuel Carvajal
last night which are self-explanatory in Spanish. One is a list of
exiles in their Costa Rican Embassy in Havana, and the other is a
document (copy) signed and given today to the Minister of Foreign
Relations of Cuba in Havana. It seems that there was very much
discussions concerning same amongst the foreign diplomats in Cuba.
The Egyptian Embassador (RAU: Syria, etc.) went to the first meeting
the diplomats had in Habana concerning the new monetary exchanges.
He first agreed strongly with the rest and promised to sign the
enclosed type document concerning the new exchange in Cuba. The
first meeting was held last Monday, Aug.13th, and they met again
a second time on Thursday in order to sign. He (name not known by
Carvajal) then refused to sign and did not even show up which indicated to the remainder of the diplomats that his money must have been
exchanged in the full amount to keep him off the list of signatures.
The Swiss Charge D'Affairs informed at the same meeting, to the
Diplomats, that he received information from his Government that the
Swiss Gov't. was checking all present Cuban bank accountants existing
in Switzerland and were readying themselves to act accordingly in
case the Cuban Gov't. should not reach any agreement in regards to
the exchange with the Diplomats.

The Japanese Embassador said he informed his Gov't. about these
difficulties as a protest against the behavior of the Cuban Gov't.
This he told at the Diplomatic meeting.

About a week ago, there was a hunger strike at the Brazilian Embassy
by the exiles there. However, they gave up as a gesture to only show
obedience to the Embassador. They protested against not receiving
salvo conductos and other things.

This coming week, Monday or Tuesday, the Diplomats again are getting
together at a meeting to protest before the Cuban Gov't. about the
lax and deceitful designing ways of handling this affair, and to
remind the Gov't. of their obligations in extending the courtesy
according to International agreements.

Carvajal asked me not to mention this, but later said that he
informed us about Embassador Quiros leaving Havana this Thursday
as he was being recalled by the Costa Rican Gov't. for consultation.
Carvajal will be in charge of the Embassy for the time, but said
he didn't expect the Embassador to return as he is taking his family
and house hold items.

He also told me again that Eduardo Odio, Costa Rican Consul in
Havana, was a person not to be trusted by many experiences they
already had with him.

DO NOT MENTION CROWN NOW!
((ARMANDO MORALES) WIFE CALLED LAST NIGHT saying
HE ENTERED Cuba Through Rupert without Any
Mishings. HE TOLD TO INifent
ME OF SAME.
Condition
I have
money for him
gan want to gine if ther
Thurs or Sat-resiprizab up shapin
PPG-MEN-OR- APHME BOD
Jo Copine Hemels
