```markdown
14-00000
104-10164-10099

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

10/09/78
SECRET
FRP:
INTEL
ACTION: LA-13 (287)
INFO: FILE, VR, DDO-4, C/PCS, CI-4, EPS/EG-2, IID,
IP/DMS, LSN/ID, ODPD-D, PCS/INT-5, SIA, SIA/FL, SIA/IC,

78 0366244
PAGE 001 OF 001
TOR: 281740Z FEB 78
SECRET 281715Z FEB 78 INTEL
CITE CARACAS 35621
(37/n)
IN 0366248
CARA 35621
TOFIR DB-315/02855-78
HVC-7858
TO: DIRECTOR INFO LA/MIAMI.
WNINTEL INTEL KMSTONE
SUPDATA: SOURCE: WKDIET/WKDIET-5 DIRECTLY AS DESCRIBED IN
CARACAS 35583. NOT FOR LIAISON. OD OBJECTIVE: J.1.
FILE DEFERRED. CL BY 013533.
FILED: 281715Z
XXXXX.
RECORD COPY

14-00000
DIRECTORATE OF
OPERATIONS
SECRET
Intelligence Information Cable
ROUTINE
IN 0486282
PAGE 001 OF 002
FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

STATE/INR JCS/MC (DIA) CIA/NMCC SS/ID FBI
(SY/TAG) SWS NSA TREAS SDO (HARD COPIES TO: NSC/S
NFAC WHSITRM SECUR DDA DDST OSI D/OMS OCR).
Classified by Recorded Reporting Officer from General Declassification Schedule of E.O. 11652 on
Category 3 (1) Impossible to Determine Date of Automatic Declassification.
THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT. NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE
REPORT CLASS S E C R E T --WNINTEL-NOFORN-NOCONTRACT
CITE TOFIR DB-315/02855-78.
DIST 28 FEB 78
COUNTRY: VENEZUELA/CUBA
SUBJECT: DETERIORATING PHYSICAL CONDITION OF CUBAN EXILE
LEADER ORLANDO BOSCH (DOI: 27 FEBRUARY 1978)
SOURCE: A VENEZUELAN BUSINESSMAN WHO MAINTAINS CONTACTS
WITH CUBAN EXILES. HIS REPORTING IS GENERALLY
RELIABLE.

1. THE PHYSICAL CONDITION OF CUBAN EXILE LEADER
ORLANDO BOSCH IS NOT CRITICAL AND CUBAN EXILE LEADERS AS
WELL AS THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT BELIEVE THAT HIS DEATH
IS NEAR. IN A LAST EFFORT TO GET BOSCH TO SUBMIT TO MEDICAL
TREATMENT AND TO WITHDRAW FROM HIS HUNGER STRIKE, CUBAN
EXILE LEADERS ARE TRYING TO GET FORMER VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT
ROMULO BETANCOURT TO VISIT BOSCH AND REASON WITH
HIM. BOSCH ADMIRES BETANCOURT FOR HIS STAUNCH ANTI-CUBAN
GOVERNMENT STAND AND CUBAN EXILE LEADERS BELIEVE HE IS THE ONLY
ONE WHO MIGHT BE ABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY APPEAL TO BOSCH.
BOSCH'S PHYSICIAN REINALDO MARTIN CANO,
WHO IS IN CLOSE CONTACT WITH GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS, HAS
ADVISED THE AUTHORITIES THAT BOSCH'S VITAL SIGNS ARE
WEAKENING.

14-00000
SECRET
WARNING NOTICE
IN 0366288
TOFIR DB-315/02855-78
PAGE 002 OF 002
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED
FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT

WEAKENING AND THAT HIS GASTRIC CONDITION IS DETERIORATING.
EXILE LEADERS HAVE ASKED GOVERNMENT PERMISSION TO HAVE
BOSCH ADMITTED TO A PRIVATE HOSPITAL AND HAVE INDICATED THEIR
WILLINGNESS TO PAY ALL EXPENSES. THE CUBAN EXILES HAVE ALSO
APPEALED TO PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRES PEREZ TO EITHER
RELEASE BOSCH OR BRING HIM TO TRIAL. PEREZ, HOWEVER, HAS
REPLIED THAT HE CANNOT YIELD TO ANY TYPE OF PRESSURE INCLUDING
THAT OF A HUNGER STRIKE.

3. (FIELD COMMENT: IN HVC-7853, TDFIRDB-315/02582-78,
THE SAME SOURCE REPORTED THAT MINISTER OF INTERIOR OCTAVIO
LEPAGE SAID HE FEARED BOSCH'S DEATH WOULD BRING ABOUT
INCREASED TERRORIST ATTACKS AGAINST THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT
AND, IN TURN, OFFICIAL REPRISALS AGAINST THE CUBAN EXILE
COMMUNITY.)

ACQ: VENEZUELA, CARACAS (28 FEBRUARY 1978)
FIELD NO. HVC-7858.
A. FIELD DISSEM: EMBASSY, FBI AT CARACAS.
REPORT CLASS SECRET WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE
SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED-NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS-
NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS.
CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XGDS-2.
SECRET

14-00000
55/21/69
SECRET
FRP
INTEL
ACTION: LA-13 (111) INFO: FILE, VR, DDD-4, CA-A, EPS/EG-2, IIb, IP/DMS,
ODPD-D, PCS/INT-5, (32/W)
76 0350612
PAGE 001 OF 001
TOR: 231648Z FEB 78
IN 0350612
CARA 35581

SECRET 231621Z FEB 78 INTEL
CITE CARACAS 35581
TO: DIRECTOR INFO LA/MIAMI.
WNINTEL INTEL KMSTONE
BUPDATA: SOURCE: WKDIET/WKDIET-5 DIRECTLY. NOT FOR LIAISON.
OD OBJECTIVE: J.1. NO INDEX. FILE DEFERRED.
CL BY 035133.
FILED: 231621Z
XXXXX
TDFIR DB-315/02582-78
HVC-7853
RECORD COPY

14-00000
DIRECTORATE OF
OPERATIONS
SECRET
Intelligence Information Cable
ROUTINE
IN 0250012
PAGE 001 OF 003
FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

STATE/INR JCS/MC(DIA) CIA/NMCC SS/ID FBI
(ST/TAG) SWS NSA TREAS SDO (HARD COPIES TO:
NSC/S NFAC WHSITRM OCR SECUR ODA).
Classified by Recorded Reporting Officer from General Declassification Schedule of E.O. 11652 on
Category 2011 (2) Impossible to Determine Date of Automatic Declassification.
THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT. NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE
REPORT CLASS SECRET--WNINTEL-NOFORN-NOCONTRACT
CITE TOFIR DB-315/02582-78
DIST 23 FEB 78
COUNTRY: VENEZUELA/CUBA
SUBJECT: FEARS THAT THE DEATH OF ORLANDO BOSCH AS A RESULT
OF A HUNGER STRIKE MAY BRING ABOUT REPRISALS
(DOI: 20-21 FEBRUARY 1978)
SOURCE: A VENEZUELAN BUSINESSMAN WHO MAINTAINS CONTACTS WITH
CUBAN EXILES. HIS REPORTING IS GENERALLY RELIABLE.

1. BOTH THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT AND THE CUBAN EXILE
COMMUNITY IN VENEZUELA ARE CONCERNED THAT CUBAN EXILE LEADER
ORLANDO BOSCH MAY DIE AS A RESULT OF HIS CURRENT HUNGER
STRIKE. FURTHERMORE, THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT FEARS THAT
SHOULD BOSCH DIE, CUBAN EXILE GROUPS WILL STEP UP THEIR ATTACKS
ON VENEZUELAN FACILITIES. THE CUBAN EXILE COMMUNITY, IN TURN,
FEARS THAT EXILE ATTACKS ON THE VENEZUELANS WOULD BRING ABOUT
FURTHER VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT REPRISALS AGAINST THE EXILE COM-
MUNITY. (FIELD COMMENT: BOSCH HAS BEEN IMPRISONED IN VENEZUELA
SINCE OCTOBER 1976 IN CONNECTION WITH THE BOMBING OF A CUBANA
AIRLINER. HE AND THE OTHER INDIVIDUALS ACCUSED OF INVOLVEMENT
IN THE BOMBING, HAVE NOT YET BEEN BROUGHT TO TRIAL. BOSCH,
WHO SUFFERS FROM A HEART AILMENT AND ULCERS, HAS BEEN ON
SECRET

14-00000
SECRET
WARNING NOTICE
IN 0350612
TOFIR DB-315/02582-78
PAGE 002 OF 003
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED
FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT

HUNGER STRIKE FOR APPROXIMATELY THREE WEEKS.)

2. ON 20 FEBRUARY 1978 OCTAVIO LE PAGE, VENEZUELAN
MINISTER OF INTERIOR, DISCUSSED BOSCH'S CONDITION WITH A
CUBAN EXILE LEADER IN VENEZUELA. LEPAGE SAID THAT HE HAD
RECEIVED REPORTS ON BOSCH'S PHYSICAL CONDITION AND THAT HE AND
OTHER GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS WERE CONCERNED THAT BOSCH MIGHT
INDEED DIE. SHOULD THIS OCCUR, LEPAGE SAID HE HAD NO DOUBT
THAT VENEZUELA WOULD BECOME THE TARGET FOR CUBAN EXILE TERRORIST
ATTACKS. LEPAGE EXPLAINED THAT BOSCH'S DEATH WOULD MEAN
PROBLEMS FOR THE GOVERNMENT AND THE EXILE COMMUNITY. THEREFORE,
LEPAGE ASKED THE EXILE LEADER TO TALK WITH BOSCH AND ATTEMPT
TO DISSUADE HIM FROM CONTINUING WITH THE STRIKE.

3. THE CUBAN EXILE LEADER ACCOMPANIED BY REINALDO
MARTIN CANO, A CUBAN EXILE PHYSICIAN, VISITED BOSCH IN
THE HOSPITAL ON 21 FEBRUARY AND FOUND HIM TO BE IN SERIOUS
PHYSICAL CONDITION. BOSCH ALLOWED MARTIN TO GIVE HIM INJECTIONS
TO COMBAT BRAIN DEHYDRATION, BUT REFUSED ANY OTHER TREATMENT.
BOSCH ALSO REFUSED TO GIVE UP HIS HUNGER STRIKE.

4. BOSCH EXPLAINED THAT HE WANTS TO BE BROUGHT TO TRIAL.
BUT ADDED THAT VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRES PEREZ
IS AFRAID TO BRING HIM BEFORE A COURT OF LAW.
BOSCH SAID, BETRAYED HIM AND THE CUBAN EXILES.
PRESIDENT PEREZ,
FURTHERMORE,
PRESIDENT PEREZ WILL BE PERSONALLY RESPONSIBLE FOR HIS DEATH
AND WILL PAY THE PRICE FOR HIS GUILT. (SOURCE COMMENT:

14-00000
SECRET
WARNING NOTICE
IN 0350612
TOFIR DB-315/02582-78
PAGE 003 OF 003
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED
FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

DETAILS OF PEREZ' SUPPOSED BETRAYAL OF BOSCH ARE NOT KNOWN.
THE OPINION OF THE EXILE COMMUNITY IS THAT BOSCH AND PEREZ HAD
SOME SORT OF DEAL WHICH BOSCH FEELS PEREZ BETRAYED.)

5. ACQ: VENEZUELA, CARACAS (22 FEBRUARY 1978)
FIELD NO. HVC-7853.

6. FIELD DISSEM: EMBASSY, FBI AT CARACAS.
REPORT CLASS SECRET WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE
SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED-NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS-
NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS.
CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XGDS-2.
SECRET

14-00000
FRP
INTEL
ACTION: IP/DP-5 (057) INFO: FILE, RF, ODPD-D, (7/0)
76 0335346
PAGE 001
TOR: 172030Z FEB 78
IN 0335346
CARA 35550

SECRET 171943Z FEB 78 DEFERRED TELEPOUCH
CITE CARACAS 35550
TO: WASHINGTON,
FOR: LA/VCE
SUBJECT: POSSIBLE RELEASE OF CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO BOSCH
REFERENCE: WASHINGTON 173605

1. LEGALLY THERE IS LITTLE CHANCE OF CONVICTING BOSCH
AND THE OTHERS BECAUSE THE CRIME WAS NOT COMMITTED IN VENEZUELA
AND THUS VENEZUELA HAS NO JURISDICTION IN THE CASE. SECONDLY,
THERE IS NO EVIDENCE AGAINST BOSCH AND GROUP. THESE ARE THE
OPINIONS OF A NUMBER OF STATION AGENTS AND CONTACTS INCLUDING
VENEZUELAN LEGAL EXPERTS SUCH AS WKALIKE-1, WKDIET-6 AND
WKSCARLET-9.

2. WHILE HERNAN AND LUGO SUPPOSEDLY CONFESSED TO THE
CRIME IN TRINIDAD, THEIR CONFESSIONS ARE NOT ADMISSABLE IN
COURT AND THEY HAVE DECLINED TO REPEAT THEM FOR VENEZUELAN
JUDICIAL AUTHORITIES. THE EVIDENCE LINKING HERNAN AND LUGO
TO POSADA COMES FROM TELEPHONE TAPS, WHICH ARE LIKEWISE
INADMISSABLE. BOSCH'S CONNECTION WITH THE CASE COMES FROM
A TELEPHONE CONVERSATION BETWEEN LUGO AND POSADA IN WHICH
THE NAME "ORLANDO" IS MENTIONED. DEFENSE ATTORNEYS COULD
MAKE A GOOD CASE THAT THE "ORLANDO" WAS DISIP OFFICER ORLANDO
GARCIA AND NOT ORLANDO BOSCH.

3. THE GOV COULD, OF COURSE, PUT PRESSURE ON THE COURT
AND JUGGLE THE EVIDENCE TO GET A CONVICTION, BUT TO DO SO WOULD
LEAVE IT OPEN FOR CRITICISM INTERNALLY AND REPRISALS FROM THE
CUBAN EXILES, AND WOULD MAKE IT MORE LIKELY THAT THE DEFEND-
ANTS WOULD DIVULGE EMBARRASSING INFORMATION CONNECTING
GOVERNMENT FIGURES TO BOSCH AND THE EXILES HE LED.
NO FILE. E2 IMPDET

RECORD COPY

14-00000
LA 33

SECRET
FILE, VR, DDO 4, EPS/EG 2, IP/DMS, IID, PCS/INT 5,
CI 4, CA 4, CA/SOG 4, SIA, SIA/FL, PCS/ITC 4, FR S
T 978598
PAGE 01
TOR: 282148Z JUN 77
IN 328368
CARA 33517
TDFIRDB-315/07585-77
HVC-7690
SECRET 282126Z JUN 77 INTEL
CITE CARACAS 33517 (HACKELING ACTING)
TO: IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR INFO LA/MIAMI, FR/NEW YORK,
WNINTEL INTEL MKSTONE
SUPDATA: SOURCE: WKRAPLER/WKRAPIER-5 FROM SUBJECT OF
CARACAS 33185., WHO SAW THE DECIPHERED NOTE. NOT
FOR LIAISON. OD OBJECTIVE: J.1. NO INDEX.
FILE DEFERRED. (NOTE: INFO SHOULD BE PASSED
TO DUPUTY ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE FOR
SECURITY.) CL BY 035133.
FILED: 28 21 262
XX XX X

14-00000
Intelligence Information Cable
WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED
PRIORITY
IN 328368
STATE: C/C WINCE WE KSA TREAS KOC/S SDO NIO OCR PAGE 1 OF 2 PAGES
(SY/TAG) SS/ID FBI SECUR SITEM MBA 050 OMS
Classified by Recorded Reporting Officer from General Declassification Schedule of E.O. 11652
Section 3 (b) (2). Impossible to Determine Date of Automatic Declassification
FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END CF REPORT.
THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE
CITE TOFIR DB-315/07585-77
DIST 28 JUNE 1977
REPORT CLASS SECRET WARNING NOTICE- SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE
SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED-NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS-:
NOT RELEAS ABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS-DISSEMINATION
AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATOR.
COUNTRY: VENEZUELA
DOI: 24 JUNE 1977
SUBJECT: INTERCEPTION BY VENEZUELAN SECURITY OFFICIALS OF A NOTE
BEING SMUGGLED IN TO THE SAN CARLOS PRISON FOR ORLANDO
BOSCH
ACQ: VENEZUELA, CARACAS (28 JUNE 1977) FIELD NO. HVC-7690
SOURCE: A VENEZUELAN BUSINESSMAN WITH A WIDE-RANGE OF CONTACTS
WITH VENEZUELAN SECURITY OFFICIALS. HIS RELIABILITY HAS
NOT BEEN ESTABLISHED. HE RECEIVED THE INFORMATION FROM
A VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL.
1. ON 24 JUNE 1977 VENEZUELAN SECURITY OFFICIALS INTERCEPTED
A MESSAGE WHICH WAS BEING SMUGGLED INTO THE SAN CARLOS PRISON
FOR CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO BOSCH, WHO IS CURRENTLY UNDER
DETENTION IN VENEZUELA IN CONNECTION WITH THE 6 OCTOBER 1976
BOMBING OF A CUBANA AIRLINER. ALTHOUGH THE MESSAGE WAS INTERCEPTED
VENEZUELAN AUTHORITIES COPIED IT AND THEN ALLOWED IT TO BE DELIVERED
SECRET

14-00000
TORR DB-315/07585-77
WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED. PAGE 2 OF 2 PAGES
SECRET FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

TO BOSCH, WHO PRESUMABLY IS UNAWARE THAT THE MESSAGE WAS INTERCEPTED.
(SOURCE COMMENT: THE IDENTITY OF THE SENDER IS UNKNOWN.)

2. THE NOTE WAS WRITTEN IN THE SAME CODE WHICH VENEZUELAN
AUTHORITIES HAVE BEEN ABLE TO BREAK. THE FOLLOWING IS THE TEXT
OF THE NOTE:
"URBAN GUERRILLAS BEGINNING. SOON YOU WILL BE SET FREE,
APARTMENT RESOLVED. ANITA GAVE ME THE MONEY. MARCOS"

3. (FIELD COMMENT: FOR INFORMATION ON AN EARLIER MESSAGE
WRITTEN IN CODE FROM BOSCH TO AN ANA P. SEE HVC-7680, TDFIRDB-315/
86944-77, OF 14 JUNE, FROM THE SAME SOURCE.)

4. FIELD DISSEM: EMBASSY, FBI AT CARACAS. SENT TO USUN.
REPORT CLASS SECRET--WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE
SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED-NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS
NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS-
DISSEMINATION OR EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY
ORIGINATOR. CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XGDS-2.
ADVANCE COPY TRANSMITTED TO STATE DIA ARMY NAVY AIR SWS NSA JCS CIAOPS CENTER
FBI TREAS

14-00000
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
PERSONNEL UNIT NOTIFIED
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED
SECRET
T 924681
PAGE 01
TOR:1620122 JUN 77
SJO8 20831
SECRET 161941Z JUN 77 STAFF
CITE SAN JOSE 20831
TO: DIRECTOR INFO SANTO DOMINGO.
WNINTEL
REF: DIRECTOR 030287

1. TO DATE, THERE HAS BEEN NO LOCAL COVERAGE OF "NEW
TIMES" ARTICLE MENTIONED REF.

2. 10 JUNE 77 FRONT-PAGE ARTICLE IN SAN JOSE DAILY
"LA REPUBLICA" QUOTES DOMINICAN MAGAZINE "AHORA" AS PUBLISHING
DECLARATIONS BY ORLANDO BOSCH IN WHICH LATTER SAYS:
COSTA RICAN PRESIDENT DANIEL ODUBER GAVE HIM THREE
PASSPORTS, ONE PERUVIAN AND TWO COSTA RICAN, AS
COMPENSATION FOR BOSCH'S ARREST IN COSTA RICA ON
16 FEBRUARY 76. HE WAS EXPELLED FROM COSTA RICA ON
27 MARCH 76.

WILL ADVISE ANY REACTION TO ABOVE.
FILED 201-399292. E2 IMPDET.

14-00000
SECURE STORAGE
ORIGINATOR'S REQUEST FOR HOS. PROCESSING
INDEXING REQUESTED
NO INDEXING
APERTURE CARD REQUESTED
CAUTION --Blank form requires
secure storage in field.
1 June 1977

FROM : Chief of Station, Buenos Aires
SUBJECT : RYBAT/FUDWELL/Orlando BOSCH Avila; LETELIER Assassination
ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

1. The Legal Attache has requested that the Station pouch the
attached memorandum entitled "Orlando BOSCH Avila; LETELIER
Assassination," dated 27 May 1977, and the photograph of Hector
Emilio Ramon DAVANZO CINTOLESI to Santiago Station.

ATTACHMENTS HEREWITH)
2-page memo
One photo

DISTRIBUTION:
Orig & 2 - COS, Santiago w/atts.
1 - O/LAD w/att. & only

14-00000
CONFIDENTIAL
Memorandum
TO: POL/R, SANTIAGO DATE: 5/27/77
FROM: LEGAT ROBERT W. SCHERRER, BUENOS AIRES

SUBJECT: ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA;
LETELIER ASSASSINATION

The Chilean Department of Investigations advised
that the International Police located a record of entry for
PEDRO ANTONIO PENA RODRIGUEZ into Chile on 8/30/75 from Colombia
as a tourist. PENA RODRIGUEZ was carrying Dominican Passport
#086768, which disclosed his date of birth as 1/8/29. PENA
RODRIGUEZ was admitted to Chile as a tourist. No record for
PENA RODRIGUEZ's departure from Chile could be located.

The Chilean Department of Investigations advised that
the Chilean Passport Office located a record for HECTOR EMILIO
RAMON DAVANZO CINTOLESI, who was born on 8/15/27 in Santiago,
the son of HECTOR DAVANZO and AMALIA ENRIQUETA CINTOLESI.
This individual has Chilean Santiago Cedula de Identidad #2.357.4*
and Chilean Passport #27,671, the latter being issued on
10/22/75. Chilean Passport Office records list DAVANZO CINTOLESI's
address in Santiago as Calle Miguel Claro #1129.

Attached is a copy of a photograph of DAVANZO
CINTOLESI, which was copied from his Cedula de Identidad.

The Chilean Department of Investigations advised
that the International Police reported that DAVANZO CINTOLESI
departed Santiago on 12/28/75 enroute to Panama. According to
International Police Records, DAVANZO CINTOLESI was conveying
Chilean Passport #26,583, when he departed Chile on 4/26/75.

The Chilean Department of Investigations reported
that the Chilean Passport Office advised that Chilean Passport
#26,583 actually belongs to RAUL MARTINEZ TORRES, Chilean Cedula
de Identidad 6,020,052. Chilean Passport Office records dis-

Attachment

14-00000
ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA;
LETELIER ASSASSINATION

Closed that MARTINEZ TORRES resides in Santiago at Avenida
Las Soporas 98, Apartment 401.

It is noted that PEDRO ANTONIO PENA RODRIGUEZ
and HECTOR EMILIO RAMON DAVANZO CINTOLESI were false
identities utilized by ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA during travels
throughout South America.

14-00000
CONFIDENTIAL
15 June 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Ray Reardon
OS/SAG
FROM: Maurice A. Sovern
O/SA/DO/O
SUBJECT: Directorate File Holdings on Orlando
Bosch Avila
REFERENCE: FBI Memorandum, 1 June 1977, Subject:
Ralph W. Stavins

1. (C) With regard to reference, and to the Assistant
Attorney General's (criminal) memorandum, dated 20 May 1977,
same subject as reference, this Directorate maintains a
personality (201) file on Orlando Bosch Avila, presently in
six volumes and containing material classified through
"Secret."

2. (U/FOUO) Please keep this office advised if there
is any possibility that the files or a Directorate officer
as custodian of the files will be involved in the possible
prosecution of the subject of reference.

(signed) Maurice A. Sovern
Maurice A. Sovern
O/SA/DO/O:MASovern:kaw (1842)

Distribution
Original & 1 OS/SAG
SA/C/LA
SA/C/LA (201-299292)
OGC
SA/DO/O
B2 IMPDET CL BY 018630

14-00000
15 June 1977
MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Ray Reardon
OS/SAG
FROM: Maurice A. Sovern
O/SA/DO/O
SUBJECT: Directorate File Holdings on Orlando
Bosch Avila
REFERENCE: FBI Memorandum, 1 June 1977, Subject:
Ralph W. Stavins

1. (C) With regard to reference, and to the Assistant
Attorney General's (criminal) memorandum, dated 20 May 1977,
same subject as reference, this Directorate maintains a
personality (201) file on Orlando Bosch Avila, presently in
six volumes and containing material classified through
"Secret."

2. (U/FOUO) Please keep this office advised if there
is any possibility that the files or a Directorate officer
as custodian of the files will be involved in the possible
prosecution of the subject of reference.

(signed) Maurice A. Sovern
Maurice A. Sovern
O/SA/DO/O:MASovern:kaw (1842)

Distribution
Original & 1 OS/SAG
SA/C/LA
SA/C/LA (201-299292)
OGC
SA/DO/O
B2 IMPDET CL BY 018630

14-00000
DISSEN OV
TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
23
J. 1. POET
EIA898
PAGE 01
TOR:141718Z JUN 77
IN 313892
CARA 33397
TDFIRDB-315/06944-77
HVC-7680
SECRET 141633Z JUN 77 INTEL
CITE CARACAS 33397.
TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR INFO LA/MIAMI, FR/NEW YORK,
NNINTEL INTEL KMSTONE
SUPDATA: SOURCE: WKRAPLER/WKRAPIER-5 FROM SUBJECT OF
CARACAS 33185., WHO SAW THE DECIPHERED NOTE. NOT
FOR LIAISON. OD OBJECTIVE: J.1. NO INDEX,
FILE DEFERRED. (AMBASSADOR REQUESTS THAT THIS INFORMATION BE PASSED
PROMPTLY TO DEPUTY ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE
FOR SECURITY IN CONNECTION WITH THE FORTHCOMING
VISIT OF PRESIDENT PEREZ TO THE UNITED STATES.)
CL BY 035133.
FILED: 141633Z XXXXX

14-00000
Intelligence Information Cable
WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED
PRIORITY
IN 31352
STATE: C/C WINCE WE KSA TREAS KOC/S SDO NIO OCR PAGE 1 OF 2 PAGES
(SY/TAG) SS/ID FBI SECUR WHSITRM MBA 050 OMS
Classified by Recorded Reporting Officer from General Declassification Schedule of E.O. 11652
Section 3 (b) (2). Impossible to Determine Date of Automatic Declassification
FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.
THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE
CITE TOFIR DB-315/06944-77
DIST 14 JUNE 1977
REPORT CLASS SECRET --WARNING NOTICE- SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE
SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED-NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS-
NOT RELEAS ABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS-DISSEMINATION
AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATOR.
COUNTRY: VENEZUELA
DOI: EARLY JUNE 1977
SUBJECT: INTERCEPTION BY VENEZUELAN SECURITY OFFICIALS OF A NOTE
FROM ORLANDO BOSCH THREATENING VENEZUELAN OFFICIALS
ACQ: VENEZUELA, CARACAS (13 JUNE 1977) FIELD NO. HVC-7688
SOURCE: A VENEZUELAN BUSINESSMAN WITH A WIDE-RANGE OF CONTACTS
WITH VENEZUELAN SECURITY OFFICIALS. HIS RELIABILITY
HAS NOT BEEN ESTABLISHED. HE RECEIVED THE INFORMATION
FROM A VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL.
1. VENEZUELAN SECURITY OFFICIALS RECENTLY INTERCEPTED A
MESSAGE WHICH CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO BOSCH, WHO IS CUR-
RENTLY UNDER DETENTION IN VENEZUELA IN CONNECTION WITH THE
6 OCTOBER 1976 BOMBING OF A CUBANA AIRLINER, WAS ATTEMPTING TO
SMUGGLE OUT OF THE PRISON WHERE HE IS BEING HELD. (SOURCE
COMMENT: IT IS NOT KNOWN HOW BOSCH'S NOTE WAS BEING SMUGGLED
OUT OF THE PRISON OR WHETHER BOSCH IS AWARE THAT THE NOTE HAS
BEEN FOUND BY VENEZUELAN AUTHORITIES. THE IDENTITY OF THE ADDRESSEE

14-00000
TORR DB-315/06944-77
WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED. PAGE 2 OF 2 PAGES
SECRET FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

IS ALSO UNKNOWN.)

2. THE NOTE WAS WRITTEN IN A CODE WHICH VENEZUELAN AUTHOR-
ITIES WERE SUCCESSFUL IN BREAKING. THE FOLLOWING IS THE TEXT OF
BOSCH'S NOTE:
"ANA P.
OTHER MESSAGES WILL FOLLOW. ATTEMPTS TO KIDNAP
VENEZUELAN DIPLOMATS ARE GOING TO OCCUR. VENEZUELAN
AMBASSADOR TO THE UNITED NATIONS. THIS INVOLVES A
TREMENDOUS RISK FOR ME AS I AM STILL IN JAIL. WE
HAVE TO ATTACK EVERYTHING, EXCEPT THEIR PLANES IN
THE AIR. THEIR OFFICES ON THE GROUND, YES. I HOPE
TO BE FREE SOON. THERE IS NO PROOF. O.B."

3. FIELD DISSEM: EMBASSY, FBI AT CARACAS, USUN.
REPORT CLASS SECRET-WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE
SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED-NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS
NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS.
CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XGDS-2.
ADVANCE COPY TRANSMITTED TO STATE, DIA, ARMY, NAVY, AIR, JCS, NSA, SWS,
CIA/OPSCEN FBI, SS/ID, TREASURY.

14-00000
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
PERSONNEL UNIT NOTIFIED
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED
SECRET
T 924681
PAGE 01
TOR:1620122 JUN 77
SJO8 20831
SECRET 161941Z JUN 77 STAFF
CITE SAN JOSE 20831
TO: DIRECTOR INFO SANTO DOMINGO.
WNINTEL
REF: DIRECTOR 030287

1. TO DATE, THERE HAS BEEN NO LOCAL COVERAGE OF "NEW
TIMES" ARTICLE MENTIONED REF.

2. 10 JUNE 77 FRONT-PAGE ARTICLE IN SAN JOSE DAILY
"LA REPUBLICA" QUOTES DOMINICAN MAGAZINE "AHORA" AS PUBLISHING
DECLARATIONS BY ORLANDO BOSCH IN WHICH LATTER SAYS:
COSTA RICAN PRESIDENT DANIEL ODUBER GAVE HIM THREE
PASSPORTS, ONE PERUVIAN AND TWO COSTA RICAN, AS
COMPENSATION FOR BOSCH'S ARREST IN COSTA RICA ON
16 FEBRUARY 76. HE WAS EXPELLED FROM COSTA RICA ON
27 MARCH 76.

WILL ADVISE ANY REACTION TO ABOVE.
FILED 201-299292. E2 IMPDET.

14-00000
SECURE STORAGE
ORIGINATOR'S REQUEST FOR HOS. PROCESSING
INDEXING REQUESTED
NO INDEXING
APERTURE CARD REQUESTED
CAUTION --Blank form requires
secure storage in field.
DATE 1 June 1977

FROM : Chief of Station, Buenos Aires
SUBJECT : RYBAT/F