at eos . . rr

a:
+e, a *

104-10063-10152 [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

SECRET 310633Z JAN 73 RESTRICTED HANDLING

17-34

CITE (DAR ES SALAAM) 1144

TO: HEADQUARTERS INFO (NAIROBI) (EYES ONLY MASTROME).

MHCURB RYBAT MHCHAOS

REFS: A. (DAR ES SALAAM 1142 19 Jan 73)
B. HEADQUARTERS 9343 6 Jun 72
C. (NAIROBI 1268 13 Apr 73)
D. HEADQUARTERS 8175 17 Jan 71
E. (NAIROBI) 1233 18 May 72
F. (AJDA) 03452 (NOT SENT (NAIROBI) 23 Mar 72)
L. HEADQUARTERS 3001 (NOT SENT (NAIROBI)) 19 Jan 73
H. HEADQUARTERS 3250

1. OPOWL/1 DEPARTED DAR FOR NAIROBI 30 JANUARY. IN THREE
MEETINGS DURING 9-DAY TDY (OPOWL/1 PROVIDED FOLLOWING NEW DATA:

2. PETE O'NEAL, BPP LEADER, CONTINUES VERY LOW PROFILE.
HAS BEEN VISITED ON SEVERAL OCCASIONS BY FRED JOHNSON, ONCE
EXCHANGED VISITS WITH SHOO-BE-DOO. FROM JOHN MANNING (OBOWL/1
LEARNED O'NEAL NOW RESIDING IN FIRST FLOOR REAR FLAT OF BLDG G
IN NEW APARTMENT COMPLEX IN SOUTH DAR ES SALAAM. (APPROX LOCATION
COORDINATES 30/43 ON SERIES Y941 EDITION 3 AMS MAP "DAR ES
SALAAM-SOUTH"). LIVES WITH WIFE CHARLOTTE AND TWO UNIDENTIFIED
BPP MEMBERS IN APARTMENTS ALLOCATED MAINLY TO UNIDENTIFIED
CHINESE ADVISORS. MANNING STATED THAT O'NEAL ORIGINALLY OBTAINED
FLAT #7 IN BLDG F ADJACENT TO PRESENT RESIDENCE, FROM SUBJ.

REF B., LEONARD DILLON RECENTLY DEPARTED, WITH ONLY
$26 IN HIS POSSESSION, FOR ZAMBIA.

3. JOHN MANNING WAS UNABLE TO CARRY OUT REF C TRIP TO
UGANDA. APPARENTLY WAS STOPPED AT UGANDAN BORDER BY MILITARY
GUARDS AND ADVISED HE WOULD NEED LNFALL DOCUMENT REQUESTING
ENTRY (THE ULTIMATE HUMILIATION--ACCORDING TO MANNING). MANNING'S
INTENTION WAS TO SEE IDI AMIN AND SUGGEST ECONOMIC LIAISON WITH
BLACK MUSLIMS IN U.S. HIS MOST RECENT ATTEMPT TO CONTACT
UGANDAN LEADER WAS LETTER WRITTEN DURING WEEK OF 22 JANUARY TO
AMIN RECOMMENDING THE CHARACTER OF HIS FRIEND JOSEPH "FATMAN"
BROWN IN SUPPORT OF BROWN'S FORTHCOMING RESIDENCE REQUEST. CIT
ISN'T CLEAR WHETHER THIS IS DIRECT RESULT OF NOTIFICATION OF
TANZANIAN AUTHORITIES AND BROWN OF REVOCATION OF BROWN'S U.S.
PASSPORT SEVERAL DAYS EARLIER OR SOME OTHER REASON. HOWEVER,
IN ALL (OPOWL/1 ELICITATION OF INFO ON UGANDAN CONTACTS OF DAR
MHCHAOS COMMUNITY THERE NO INDICATION ANY CONNECTION WITH PLO

PAGE 3 (DAR ES SALAAM) 1144 SECRET

INTENTIONS TO CONTACT BLACK AMERICAN RADICALS REPORTED IN (AUX)
2393, KAMPALA 19308.

4. OPOWL/1 CONTACTED ROOSEVELT BROWN SUBJECT REF D. TN 24
JANUARY FOR SHORT CONVERSATION IN WHICH BROWN STATED HE HAD JUST
COME DOWN FROM NAIROBI. ACCORDING TO CIA HEARTY/1 ROOSEVELT BROWN
ATTEMPTED RENEW OUTDATED EXCURSION AIR TICKET THAT SAME DAY BUT
WHEN RENEWAL WAS APPROVED WAS INFORMED BROWN HAD RETURNED NAIROBI
26 JAN.

5. ON WAY TO RALLY PROTESTING PAIGC LEADER CABRAL'S
ASSASSINATION (OPOWL SPOTTED LYNN (PRINCE HENRY) EVANS AKA FREDRIK
ROLLINS, SUBJECT REF E. (EVANS CURRENTLY SUBJECT OF NVIDEA-
REGIONAL SECURITY OFFICER INVESTIGATION DURING DAR TDY)

6. ON VISIT TO PAN AFRICAN SKILLS (PAS) OFFICE, OPOWL/1 MET
FRED BROOKS, AND MALIK CHAKA, SUBJECT REF F, LATTER WAS IN MIDST
FRENETIC ACTIVITY PRODUCING "STATEMENT" FROM PAS FOR DEMONSTRATION
AT TANU HQS DENOUNCING CABRAL'S ASSASSINATION.

7. DURING VISITS TO PAS OFFICE, OPOWL/1 PERFORMED INITIAL
TECHNICAL SURVEY. (FLOOR PLAN AND NOTES BEING FORWARDED BY
DISPATCH). EXEMPLAR ELECTRIC OUTLETS NO LONGER OBTAINABLE
LOCALLY, HOWEVER (OPOWL/1 BELIEVES HE CAN GET THEM IN NAIROBI FOR
FORWARDING WOLOCK.

PAGE 4 (DAR ES SALAAM) 1144 SECRET

8. OPOWL/1 DETERMINED THAT GEORGE RICE AKA GEORGE MATHEWS,
SUBJECT REF G. WAS RELEASED BY TANZANIAN AUTHORITIES SEVERAL
WEEKS AGO (DESPITE LNFALL IMPRESSION GOVT. STILL PURSUING INITIAL
EXTRADITION OFFER). EXPLANATION GIVEN TO (OPOWL/1 BY MANNING AND
BROOKS FOR ORIGINAL DETENTION OF RICE WAS THAT TANZANIANS HAD
MISTAKEN RICE FOR HIJACKER GEORGE EDWARD WRIGHT. MFA HAD
INDICATED TO LNFALL WHEN SUGGESTING EXTRADITION THAT THEY
BELIEVED RICE TO BE HIJACKER WRIGHT BASED ON NEWSPAPER PHOTOS OF
DELTA HIJACKERS. IRONY OF WHOLE SITUATION IS THAT WRIGHT, AKA
LARRY DARNELL BURGESS, WAS IN DAR ES SALAAM AT TIME OF RICE
DETENTION, ACCORDING TO SEVERAL (OBOWL/1 SOURCES.

9. CURTIS POWELL, SUBJECT REF H, CURRENTLY RESIDES IN SAME
AREA BUT NOT SAME BUILDING AS PETE O'NEAL. OPOWL/1 AND MANNING
DROVE POWELL TO AIRPORT ON WEEKEND 27 JANUARY FOR TRIP TO NAIROBI.
BOTH OPOWL/1 AND MANNING HAD TO (PORTION GARBLED) TO PAY
AIRPORT TAX.

10. NO FILE E2, IMPDET WN-SISM.
SECRET
