```markdown
File #:
62-116395
Serial Scope:
NW 88296 Docld:32989624 Page 1
441 THRU 5th NR 474
475
Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case #:NW
88296 Date: 10/23/00

STATE LAW DEPARTMENT
1208 Munsey Building
Baltimore 2, Maryland
July 5, 1956
Federal Bureau of Investigation
U.S. Department of Justice
Post Office Box 2015
Baltimore 3, Maryland

Gentlemen:
Enclosing for your information copy of a
letter dated June 8, 1956 from the Industrial Employment
Review Board to Mr. Gurney; also copy of Mrs. Gurney's
letter to Dr. Byrd, President of University of Maryland.
I know that you will be interested in Mr. Gurney's
letter.

If you have any further information regarding Mr.
Gurney I would certainly appreciate same. I am also
interested to know something more about the Industrial
Employment Review Board, especially whether or not your
records are available to it and the importance of its
findings.

Thanking you for your kindness and cooperation,
Very truly yours,

O. BOWIE DOCKETT,
Special Assistant Attorney General
OBD:lt
Encs.
NW 88296 Docld:32989624 Page 2
ENCLOSURE
151441-

62-116395
1 - Mr. J. B. Adams
1 - Mr. J. A. Mintz
1 - Mr. J. B. Hotis
1 - Mr. W. O. Cregar
1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall
1 - Mr. T. E. Burns
July 25, 1975

UNITED STATES SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE
TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS
WITH RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

RE: FURTHER DOCUMENTS PERTAINING TO
THE FBI AND DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
POLICIES AND PROCEDURES

Reference is made to SSC letter dated May 14, 1975,
with attached appendices, requesting certain documents and
other information from the FBI.

Item number 1. b., of Part I, Appendix B of refer-
enced communication requested Committee Staff access to all
indices and control files pertaining to all programs operated
by the Intelligence Division for 1960 to the present.

Attached to this memorandum is a list of all
retrievable programs, projects, surveys and procedures
employed in connection with domestic intelligence operations
of the FBI which may be of interest to you. There were a
number of other programs, projects, surveys and procedures
employed in connection with foreign counterintelligence
operations of the FBI which are not included. In the event
you desire information concerning these latter items, which
include extremely sensitive matters, we would be pleased to
discuss them with SSC Staff Members at FBI Headquarters.

Enclosure
TEB:lek/lhb
(8)
ORIGINAL AND ONE COPY TO AG
SEE NOTE PAGE 2
Assoc. Dir.
Dep. AD Adm.
Dep. AD Inv.
Asst. Dir.:
Admin.
Comp. Syst.
Ext. Affairs
Files & Com.
Gen. Inv.
Ident.
Inspection
Intell.
Laboratory
Plan. & Eval.
Spec. Inv.
Training
Legal Coun.
Telephone Rm.
Director Sec'y
MAIL ROOM
TELETYPE UNIT
NW 88296 Docld:32989624 Page 3
62-111-395-442X
GPO 954-545
ENCLOSURE

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 10/23/00 BY SP-2 ALM/JTG

Further Documents Pertaining
to the FBI and Department of Justice
Policies and Procedures

DECLASSIFICATION:
I HAVE MOST FILES AT
MY DESK ON THESE
CODENAMES/CODEWORDS
For RESEARCH NEEDS.

NOTE: TOP SECRET
The Programs, Projects, Surveys and Procedures List
(PPSPL), enclosed, and the Counterintelligence PPSPL, infra,
were generated by SA Thomas E. Burns, Jr. from a review of
available INTD inspection reports and files.

COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PPSPL

1. Intelligence Coverage of Friendly Foreign Countries - Developing
positive intelligence information regarding personnel in the
United States from non-Soviet-bloc countries.

2. International Organization - Dangerous Aliens of Nations Outside
the Soviet-bloc - Centralized compilation of potentially danger-
ous aliens with diplomatic immunity against whom the U. S. State
Department could initiate steps to deport or to lift
diplomatic immunity in the event of a war emergency.

3. Name Checks of Aliens Holding Diplomatic and International
Organization Visas - FBI maintaining results of name checks
conducted by various members of U. S. intelligence community
based on information provided to such intelligence organizations
by INS regarding aliens meeting established criteria.

4. Special Support Group (Use of non-Agent surveillance personnel). (U)
5. Alem - Uncovering of Soviet illegals entering the United States. (S)

6. Anagram - Penetration of foreign diplomatic establishments in
the United States for procurement of cryptographic materials. (S)
(Mr. Buchen, Counsel to the President, has advised that sensi-
tive information such as that regarding Anagram and electronic
surveillances is to be handled in an oral briefing to be given
to Senators Church and Tower).

NW 88296 Docld:32989624 Page 4
TOP SECRET
- 2 -
NOTE CONTINUED PAGE 3

Further Documents Pertaining
to the FBI and Department of Justice
Policies and Procedures

NOTE CONTINUED: TOP SECRET

7. Banpop - Identification of Soviet illegals through the transfer
of funds through Swiss banks.

8. Chinese Aliens Entering the United States - Identification
of ethnic Chinese legally entering the U.S. with
intelligence assignments.

9. Chinese Communist Contacts with Scientists in the United States -
Development of selected scientists of ethnic Chinese
background as foreign counterintelligence assets to be
targeted against People's Republic of China (PRC)
personnel and establishments in the U.S. and Canada.

10. Chinese Entering the United States Claiming Citizenship -
Identification of Chinese legally entering the U.S. with
intelligence assignments.

11. Chinese University and Graduate School Index - List of
Chinese aliens in the U.S. who have attended colleges or
graduate schools on the Chinese mainland and who are
considered potential candidates for development as U.S.
assets.

12. Cokma - Specialized physical surveillance directed against
foreign intelligence officers. (S) FILE 65-73750

13. Canil - Identification of Soviet illegals arriving in the
United States from Europe through Canada. (S)

14. Chicoin - Counterintelligence activities to thwart DRC
efforts of Chinese intelligence in this country. (U)

15. Forest - Screening of records of foreign students at New York
University, other than those in authorized programs, to uncover
Soviet illegals. (S)

NW 88296 Docld:32989624 Page 5
TOP SECRET
- 3 -
NOTE CONTINUED PAGE 4

Further Documents Pertaining
to the FBI and Department of Justice
Policies and Procedures

NOTE CONTINUED: TOP SECRET

16. Proho - [Program to detect homosexuals who have been compromised
or recruited by Soviet intelligence] (S) File 105-140972

17. Visitors to Communist China and Contacts by U. S. Residents
with Chinese Diplomatic Establishments - Investigations
conducted regarding certain individuals meeting established
criteria.

18. Visitors to Iron Curtain Countries - Interviews of selected
U. S. tourists to determine possible contact by Soviet-bloc
intelligence. (U)

19. Orkid - Technical penetration of Soviet establishments in the
United States. (S) File 105-189368

20. Cloverleaf - Technical penetration of new Soviet residential
complex, Riverdale, New York City. (S) File 105-231856

21. Sam Survey - Screening of mail to selected European cities. (U)

22. Gus Survey - Screening of mail originating in New York,
New York, destined for specific postal zones. (U)

23. Radio and Technical Equipment Purchased by the Soviets -
Recording of Soviet purchases in such areas--intelligence
and counterintelligence purposes.

24. Rega - Identification of Soviet illegals entering the U.S.
as aliens during certain years. (S) 65-73094

25. Secomex - Expanded Mexican border coverage to include
development of sources against the Soviet Embassy in
Mexico. (S) File 105-148076

NW 88296 Docld:32989624 Page 6
TOP SECRET
- 4 -
NOTE CONTINUED PAGE 5

Further Documents Pertaining
to the FBI and Department of Justice
Policies and Procedures

NOTE CONTINUED: TOP SECRET

26. Sobir - [Investigation of certain Soviet-bloc immigrants and
repatriates in an attempt to identify those previously
recruited by Soviet-bloc intelligence] (S)

27. Socap - Review of certain records to identify Soviet
illegals who have applied for documentation as U.S.
residents as part of their effort to establish a bona fide
cover identity. File 65-66114

28. Vietnamese Refugee - Efforts to uncover possible
infiltration of North Vietnamese agents in the refugee flow
to the United States.

29. Walklok - Screening of requests for birth certificates under
an established criteria to identify such requests which
may have originated with Soviet intelligence] (S) File 65-75130

30. Technical and Microphone Surveillance - Survey of telephone
and microphone installations functioning at certain times. (U)

31. Al Fatah Automatic Data Processing Project - means of identifying
Al Fatah members and their contacts through use of ADP
equipment. (S)

32. Cuban Refugee - Detection of Cuban intelligence agents
who might infiltrate into the U.S. through refugee
channels. (S)

33. Deseco - Development of selected contacts to be directed
against Soviet-bloc officials. (U)

34. East-West Exchange - Provided internal security safeguards
regarding admission to the U.S. of Soviet and satellite
nationals. (U)

35. Z Coverage - Screening of mail destined for the Soviet Mission
to the United Nations. (U)

NW 88296 Docld:32989624 Page 7
TOP SECRET
- 5 -
NOTE CONTINUED PAGE 6

Further Documents Pertaining
to the FBI and Department of Justice
Policies and Procedures

NOTE CONTINUED: TOP SECRET

36. Chiprop - Screening of mail to the United States from Hong Kong
and the People's Republic of China (PRC). (U)

37. Chiclet - Screening of mail from the United States to Hong Kong
and the PRC. (U)

38. Alchemy - "notional" Pro-Marxist - Leninist - Maoist domestic
revolutionary organization staffed by Bureau assets directed at
uncovering PRC intelligence activities in the United States. (S)

39. Geology - Verification of individuals entering selected
foreign countries claiming U.S. citizenship--to identify
Soviet illegals. (S) File 65-72903

40. Hilev - Collection of high level foreign political
intelligence by FBI Legal Attaches abroad for the
information of the White House. (U) File 64-41404 REF

41. Orbit - Checking of U.S. Post Office Boxes utilized by U.S.
military personnel in the vicinity of selected U.S.
Military bases--to uncover possible Soviet agents. (S) 65-75385

42. Phrenology - Efforts to identify Soviet illegals who formerly
resided in a specific foreign country and whose present
whereabouts are unknown. (S) File 65-75008

Classified by 6283, XGDS 1, 2 and 3, Indefinite.

NW 88296 Docld:32989624 Page 8
TOP SECRET
- 6 -

PROGRAMS, PROJECTS, SURVEYS and PROCEDURES

1. Administrative Index (Adex) - List of individuals who posed
a realistic direct, and current danger to the national
security of the United States.

2. Agitator Index - List of individuals who have demonstrated
by their actions that they have a propensity for fomenting
racial discord.

3. American Repatriate - Specific procedure to be followed
concerning United States (U.S.) citizens who were issued
Swiss protection passports to return to the U.S. from
Cuba.

4. Black Extremist Section of the Single Fingerprint File - Covers
black extremists who have propensity for violence or who could
be considered logical suspects in various crimes in which
Bureau might have an interest.

5. Black Student Groups on College Campuses - Discreet preliminary
inquiries, limited to established sources, on black student
organizations and their leaders.

6. Bocov - Communist coverage along the Mexican border.

7. Characterization - Descriptive statements concerning
certain organizations which have been subject to
investigation.

8. Cointelpro - Counterintelligence programs directed against
domestic subversive activities.

9. Communist Influence in Black Extremist Groups - Periodic
reports relative to communist influence in black extremist groups.

10. Communist Influence in Racial Matters - Periodic reports
relative to communist influence in racial matters.

11. Computerized Telephone Number File - Computerized programing
of telephone numbers utilized by extremists and
revolutionaries and other individuals suspected of
involvement in interstate gambling activities.

12. Emergency Detention - Provided for apprehension and detention
of persons considered potentially injurious to the national
defense and public safety of the U.S. in time of national
emergency.

NW 88296 Docld:32989624 Page 9
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 10/2/00 BY SP-2 ALM/JTG

13. Extremist Informant - Development of sources to provide
intelligence and evidentiary information concerning extremist
individuals and organizations.

14. Ghetto Informant - Development of individuals living or working
in Ghetto areas who can furnish information with particular
emphasis on situations which may create civil unrest.

15. Intensification of Investigation of Weatherman and Other
Similar Terrorist Groups - Use of full resources of FBI and
use of innovative methods to achieve a more comprehensive
coverage of such groups.

16. Key Activist - Investigation of individuals who were extremely
active and vocal in their statements denouncing the U.S.
and calling for civil disobedience and other forms of
unlawful and disruptive acts.

17. Key Extremist - Provided intensified coverage of selected
extremists who were known to be active and who had
previously evidenced the potential for fomenting violence
or revolutionary activities.

18. Location of Non-Fugitive Weatherman Members - Intensified
efforts to locate non-fugitive Weatherman members.

19. New Left Extremist - False Identity - Attempt to provide
effective dissemination of voluminous data concerning
false identities used by Weatherman personnel and other
New Left extremists.

20. New Left Movement - Finances - Periodic information made
available to the USDJ and the White House regarding income
source of various revolutionary groups.

21. New Left Movement - Publications - Coverage of Publications being
circulated by New Left Movement.

22. Potential for Racial Violence - Survey of localities having
potential for racial violence based on current social conditions.

23. Potential for Violence and Civil Unrest - Periodic assessment
of potential for violence and civil unrest throughout the
U.S. with emphasis on situations involving racial factors.

24. Prisacts - Extremist, revolutionary, terrorist, and
subversive activities in penal institutions.

NW 88296 Docld:32989624 Page 10

25. Prosab - Protection of Strategic Air Command and inter-
continental ballistic missile bases of the U.S. Air Force.

26. Revolutionary Activities - Violence - Periodic reports
appraising potential dangerousness of the various
revolutionary groups.

27. Security Index - List of individuals who were believed to be
dangerous to the internal security of the U.S. during
times of emergency.

28. Security Informant - Development of sources to provide intelli-
gence and evidentiary information concerning security matters.

29. Security of Special Agent Personnel - Communication to all offices
dated September 17, 1973, alerting field to information that
revolutionary and extremist activists and organizations have
instituted a program of collecting intelligence data against law
enforcement personnel and agencies. It directed field to
advise FBI Headquarters if information developed that such organ-
izations and individuals are actively engaged in confrontation
and harassment of FBI personnel.

30. Spectar - (Special Target for Informant Development) -
Development of quality informants to penetrate revolutionary
underground.

31. Stop Index Program on Administrative Index Subjects -
Placing Adex Category 1 individuals in the "stop index"
operated by the Computer Systems Division in order to promptly
determine inquiries received from local police concerning such
subjects.

32. Underground Newspapers - Collection of copies of various
revolutionary newspapers.

33. Venceremos Brigade - Individuals subjected to background
investigation with view toward determining possible Adex
inclusion and analysis to determine whether or not subject
could be targeted against hostile intelligence agencies.

34. Weatherman Fugitive (Weatherfug) Investigations - Efforts to
locate Weatherfugs.

35. Weatherman Automobile Hot Sheet - Compilation of Weatherman
vehicles for use by surveillance personnel.

NW 88296 Docld:32989624 Page 11

TO: Intelligence Community Staff
ATTN: Central Index
SUBJECT: Abstract of Information Provided to Select Committees

1. HOW PROVIDED (check appropriate term. If a document was made available 2. DATE PROVIDED
for review but not transmitted, so note.)
DOCUMENT BRIEFING INTERVIEW TESTIMONY OTHER 7/25/75
For Review
3. TO WHOM PROVIDED (check appropriate term; add specific names if appropriate)
SSC
4. HSC
IDENTIFICATION (provide descriptive data for documents; give name or identification number of briefer,
interviewee, testifier and subject)
5. Memorandum
IN RESPONSE TO (list date and item number if in response to formal request, other- 6. CLASSIFICATION OF
wise state verbal request of (name), initiative, subpoena, etc.) INFORMATION (enter
U, C, S, TS or
SSC request 5/14/75, Part I, Appendix B, Item 1b Codeword)
U
7. KEY WORDS (enter the appropriate key words from the list provided separately; if key words not listed are
used underline for emphasis)
Operating procedures
8. SUMMARY (See reverse side before completing this item)
Access to all available indices and control files
regarding all programs operated by the Intelligence Division
from 1960 to present.
62-116395
AJD:lhb
(4) ORIGINAL VIA LIAISON TO CENTRAL COMMUNITY INDEX
IN CONNECTION WITH SENSTUDY 75
TREAT AS YELLOW
CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE
3791 (6-75)
NW 88296 Docld:32989624 Page 9
#MDR16
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 10/2/00 BY SP-2 ALM/JTG
62-116395-442X

INSTRUCTIONS

• Type or print clearly in ink.
• Indicate classification of the abstract top and bottom.
• Date the abstract and put on any internal control numbers required.
• "FROM" entry should clearly identify the organization providing the
information.
• If additions (as when a copy of document sent to SSC is later sent to
HSC) or changes to a previously submitted form are necessary, submit a
copy of the original abstract, with the change indicated.

SPECIFIC ITEM NO. 8. SUMMARY - enter brief narrative statement describing
substance of information and showing relationship to Intelligence Community
matters if appropriate. Any feedback or evidence of investigatory interests
should be noted. Commitments made to supply additional information should be
noted. Additionally, certain administrative information may be entered here,
e.g., restrictions on review of a document, if document was paraphrased, whether
interviewee is current or former employee, etc. If actual document or transcript
is provided, that fact should be noted and no summary is required. Additional
pages may be attached if necessary.

FROM
SUBJECT:
UNITED STATES
Memorandum
-
Mr. J. B. Adams
Mr. J. A. Mintz
Mr. W. R. Wannall
W. 0. Cregar
WOC
SENSTUDY 75
DATE:
7/25/75
1 - Mr. W. 0. Cregar
Assoc. Dir.
Dep. AD Adm.
Dep. AD Inv.
Asst. Dir.:
Admin.
Comp. Syst.
Ext. Affairs
Files & Com.
Gen. Inv.
Ident.
Inspection
Laboratory
Legal Coun.
Plan. & Eval.
Spec. Inv.
Training
Telephone Rm.
Director Sec'y
This memorandum records for the record my efforts
to meet with Mr. Thomas K. Latimer, Special Assistant to the
Secretary and Deputy Secretary of Defense, on 6/25/75.
On the late afternoon of 7/24/75, Mr. Benson
Buffham, Deputy Director, National Security Agency (NSA),
made available to Liaison Agent Brian Murphy a copy of a
"Top Secret" memorandum dated 4/20/71, written by Louis W.
Tordella, who was the then Deputy Director of NSA. This
Memorandum for the Record, Subject: Shamrock, copy of which
is attached, makes reference to a file entitled Shamrock
available in the office of the Assistant Chief of Staff for
Intelligence, United States Army.
Pursuant to your instructions on the evening of
7/24/75, I personally contacted Mr. Latimer at approximately
8:00 a.m., 7/25/75. In my conversation with Mr. Latimer, I
noted that it was imperative that I see him as soon as
possible regarding the contents of the Shamrock file.
Mr. Latimer was informed that the Bureau was attempting to
establish the line of authority relative to the Bureau's
procurement of foreign government's cable traffic sent
through international cable companies in the United States.
REC-88 62-1163-95-442
Mr. Latimer indicated that he had received a call
from Mr. Buffham on the late afternoon of 7/24/75 and was
aware of the Bureau's interest in reviewing certain memoranda
in the Shamrock file. Mr. Latimer indicated that this was
a matter of interest to the General Counsel of the Department
of Defense and that he would have to consult with them.
3 JUL 31 1975
Enclosure
TOP SECRET MATERIAL ATTACHED
-PARU TE AL
62-116395
WOC:1hb 1hb
(5)
84 JUL 3 1 1975
NW 88296 Docld:32989624 Page 11
CONTINUED - OVER

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall
Re: Senstudy 75
62-116395

He advised me he would have somebody from the General Counsel's
office, Department of Defense, promptly contact me regarding
a review of this file by FBI personnel.

Not hearing from Mr. Latimer by the late morning
of 7/25/75, I telephonically contacted his office. He was
not available and I asked his secretary to have him return
my call. Shortly before noon, Mr. Latimer returned my call
and explained that he had discussed my request with
Mr. "Marty" Hoffman (phonetic) of the Department of Defense.
It was Latimer's understanding that Mr. Hoffman had gone to
the White House to discuss my request with Mr. Philip Buchen,
Counsel to the President. Latimer promised that he would
telephonically recontact me as soon as he could establish
contact with Hoffman. I again reiterated to Latimer that it
was imperative the Bureau have access to the Shamrock file
in order that we could advise the Attorney General as to
its contents hoping to clearly demonstrate that both the
then Attorney General Thomas Clark and, in fact, President
Truman himself were aware of certain information contained
in the Shamrock file. Mr. Latimer said he understood clearly
what was at issue here and that he would get back to me as
soon as possible.

At 1:50 p.m., 7/25/75, I again called Mr. Latimer's
office and his secretary informed me that Mr. Latimer had
stepped out of his office and that she would give him a
message to call me as soon as he returned. As of 4:00 p.m.,
7/25/75, I had not received a return call from Mr. Latimer.

ACTION:

For information and record purposes.

NW 88296 Docld:32989624 Page 12

TOP SECRET/LIMITED DISTRIBUTION

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD 20 April 1971

SUBJECT: SHAMROCK

Mr. Buffham and I had an opportunity this morning to read
the SHAMROCK file in ACSI. Major General Joel McChristian gave
us permission to view it but once we had read it, after careful con-
sideration he decided that he would not feel free to give NSA either
the file or a duplicate copy without personal permission from SecDef
inasmuch as SecDef had entrusted the file to ACSI in 1949. All of
us agreed that an approach to the Secretary would be unnecessary
and perhaps would generate too many questions. He did agree
after sealing the file again to limit access to the Secretary of Defense
on demand, the Director or the Deputy Director, NSA, on demand,
Chief of ACSI, and the Chief of the SSO, ACSI. This would be noted in
the outside inst
The file contained memoranda for record, one prepared after
a meeting in Forrestal's office attended by senior officials from ITT,
Western Union, and RCA plus Marks Leva (then Defense General
Counsel), Secretary Forrestal, and a representative from the Attorney
General's office. Colonel Carter Clark from ACSI, who was present,
prepared this memorandum. A subsequent meeting was held in Secre-
tary Louis Johnson's office attended by representatives of the same
three companies and I believe the Attorney General himself. In Mr.
Johnson's own handwriting is a note to the effect that he showed the
memorandum for record to President Truman and a note that TCC, ap-
parently Attorney General Thomas Clark, either was present or had
also discussed the matter with the President. Both memoranda indi-
cated that the companies were informed that the work they were doing
was of very great importance to the U.S. and every effort would be
made to protect knowledge of its existence as well as to protect the
companies in the event of exposure.

The material is filed under TS Control No. 516652-3-5 in the
SSO ACSI files.

LOUIS W. TORDELLA
Deputy Director

NW 88296 Docld:32989624 Page 13
TOP SECRET
ENCLOSURE

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY 1962 EDITION
GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27
5010-106
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum
TO
:
Mr. J. Cochran, Jr.
Mr. R. J. Gallagher
Mr. W. R. Wannall
Mr. W. O. Cregar
FROM
:
W. O. Cregar
WOC
SUBJECT:
SENSTUDY 75
DATE:
July 24, 1975
Assoc. Dir.
Asst. Dir.:
Admin.
Files & Com.
Gen. Inv.
Ident.
Inspection
Laboratory
Legal Coun.
Spec. Inv.
Training
Telephone Rm.
Director Sec'y
My memorandum dated 7/23/75 captioned as above advised
you that this Bureau had received from Central Intelligence Agency
(CIA) 190 pages extracted from a 693-page document prepared by
CIA citing instances wherein CIA believed some of its activities
may have exceeded its legal mandate. Some of the CIA activities
cited in this document include references to Bureau operations of
an extremely sensitive nature, and it was also noted that the Senate
Select Committee has had access to this document. It was recommended
that pertinent pages extracted from the CIA document be routed to
the respective Bureau Division and/or Intelligence Division Section
believed to have an interest in the material contained therein for
the purpose of fully identifying the subject matter and making an
assessment as to whether any compromise to this Bureau's operation
is involved.

This is to advise that the following pages from the docu-
ment were furnished to the following Divisions and/or Sections of
the Intelligence Division on the morning of 7/24/75 for the purpose
of review, assessment, and recommendations, if any:

General Investigative Division - Pages 107, 108, 111, 149-151,
155, 156, 158-161, 178, 180,
181, 296, 298, 301, 353 and 354

Laboratory Division - Pages 65-67, 113, 118, 119, 182, 202, 221,
222, and 234, (pages 238-240 and 248 were
furnished for information purposes as these
pages contained information concerning
techniques used and/or developed by CIA
which may be of interest).

Intelligence Division
Section CI-1
Pages 23, 24, 28, 29, 70, 72, 73, 77, 136, 140-142,
298, 329, 582, 615, and 628.

NW 88296 Docld:32989624 Page 14
REC-88
62-116395
TJM:ekw (12)
CONTINUED - OVER

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall
RE: SENSTUDY 75
62-116395

Section CI-2
Pages 30 and 329

Section CI-3
Pages 26, 59-61, 282, 290, 292, 295, 310, 334, 361-363,
368, 371, 373, 376-379, 384, 385, 458, 468-470, 591-593,
and 615.

Section IS-1
Pages 188, 189, 283, 330

Section IS-2
Pages 29, 30, 171, 190, 191, 193, 194, 197, 198, 203,
330, and 482.

Section IS-3
Pages 521 and 549

Recipients of above pages were requested to respond to
above request by memorandum captioned as above to reach the
Senstudy Project, Room 4063 JEH by the afternoon of 7/28/75.

ACTION: None. You will be advised of results of above requested
assessment.

Existence of the 693-page CIA document and the
information contained therein should be closely
guarded and disclosed only on a need-to-know
basis.

NW 88296 Docld:32989624 Page 15

PROJECT MOCKINGBIRD

Project Mockingbird, a telephone intercept activity, was conducted
between 12 March 1963 and 15 June 1963, and targeted two Washington-
based newsmen who, at the time, had been publishing news articles
based on, and frequently quoting, classified materials of this Agency
and others, including Top Secret and Special Intelligence.

Telephone intercept connections were installed at the newsmen's
office and at each of their homes, for a total of 3. The connections
were established with the assistance of a telephone company official
who responded to a personal request by the Director of Security, Col.
Sheffield Edwards. Col. Edwards' authority for the activity was Mr.
John A. McCone, Director of Central Intelligence. The latter conducted
the activity in coordination with the Attorney General (Mr. Robert Kennedy),
the Secretary of Defense (Mr. Robert McNamara), and the Director of
the Defense Intelligence Agency (Gen. Joseph Carroll). In addition to
Office of Security personnel directly involved in the intercepts and
research of materials acquired therefrom, only 3 other Agency
officials are on record as witting of the activity: the Deputy Director
of Central Intelligence (General Marshall S. Carter), the Inspector
General (Lyman Kirkpatrick) and the General Counsel (Mr. Lawrence
Houston).

The intercept activity was particularly productive in identifying con-
tacts of the newsmen, their method of operation and many of their sources
of information. For example, it was determined that during the period they
received data from 13 newsmen, 12 of whom were identified; 12 senators
and 6 members of Congress, all identified; 21 Congressional staff members,
of whom 11 were identified; 16 government employees, including a staff
member of the White House, members of the Vice President's office, an
Assistant Attorney General, and other well-placed individuals. A number
of other sources were partially or tentatively identified, but the short span
of the activity precluded positive identification. It was observed that through
these contacts the newsmen actually received more classified and official
data than they could use, and passed some of the stories to other newsmen
for release, establishing that many "leaks" appearing under other by-lines
were actually from the sources of the target newsmen.

Since the termination of Project Mockingbird, those materials related
to it which were retained, have been maintained under strict security access
of two Office of Security professionals.

NW 88296 Docld:32989624 Page 16
62-116375-47500021
ENCLOSURE
SECRET EYES ONLY
WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES
AND METHODS INVOLVED

SECRET
EYES ONLY

SUBJECT: Soviet Defector

A Soviet defector,
defected to a representative of this Agency in
1964. The responsibility for
his exploitation was assigned to the then SR Division of
the Clandestine Service and he was brought to this country

After initial interrogation by
representatives of the SR Division, he was moved to a safe-
house in Maryland, where he
was confined and interrogated until 13 August 1965 when
he was moved to a specially constructed "jail" in a remote
wooded area at ISOLATION. The SR Division was convinced
that he was a dispatched agent but even after a long
period of hostile interrogation