[2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

JFK Assassination System Date: 4/17/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90139-10050
RECORD SERIES: HQ rc
AGENCY FILENUMBER: CR SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: PAPICH
TO: LALLIER
TITLE: [Restricted]
DATE: 08/17/1961
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS: CIA LIAISON MATERIAL
[Restricted]
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1
HW 50953
DocId:32337923 Page 1

---

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum

TO: MR. L'ALLIER
FROM: S.J. PAPICH
SUBJECT: ISMAEL RODRIGUEZ
INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA
(134-9775)

DATE: August 17, 1961

Tolson
Belmont
Mohr
Callahan
Conrad
DeLoach
Evans
Malone
Rosen
Sullivan
Tavel
Trotter
Tele. Room
Ingram
Gandy

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION,
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT EXCEPT
BRACKETS

The captioned individual is the comptroller of Cubana Airlines, New York City, and has been utilized as a source of information by the Bureau. On 8-16-61, David Hanlon, Office of Security, Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), advised the Liaison Agent that on occasion his Agency has utilized Rodriguez as a courier for transmitting material between the U.S. and Cuba. This material has dealt with CIA operations in Cuba.

ACTION:

The above information is being directed to the attention of the Nationalities Intelligence Section.

SJP: jad (5)

1-Donahoe
1-Nasca
1-Liaison
1-Papich

LET TO NY
THNider
8-22-61

Classified
Declassify on: QADR (JFK)
Classified by 2813.Bolet
Declassify Ch; QADR
Bound
134-9775-6
REC. 87-14-98
CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD/X546
DECLACE
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE

AUG 25 1961

COPIES MADE, DATE 7:18 BY
R RE Papich.
FOR REVIEW AT PING A DELIVERY
TO NSCA NE HEM
(SEE BUTTER)

HW 50953 DocId:32337923 Page 2
SECRET
