[124-10279-10020 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

JFK Assassination System Date: 5/7/2015
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10279-10020
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: CR 109-12-221-1792

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: CIA
TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 08/30/1967
PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS:
EGD, CLASH, RIVAL FACTIONS, COPRA GROWERS UNION, ACAPULCO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Confidential
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/30/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

NW 50953 DocId: 32301685 Page 1

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY ROUTINE
Intelligence Information Cable IN-41475
PAGE 1 OF 2 PAGES

STATE/INR DIA NMCC/MC (SECDEF JCS ARMY NAVY AIR) CIA/NMCC NIC NSA OCR AID
USIA FBI ONE ORR SDO DCS CGS

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C.
Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

NO FOREIGN DISSEM
THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE.

CITE TDCS-314/13013-67
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L 300659Z

REC 18 DIST 30 AUGUST 1967
Political matters
GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification

COUNTRY: MEXICO
DOI: 28 AUGUST 1967

SUBJECT: ARREST OF FEDERAL DEPUTY CESAR DEL ANGEL FUENTES FOR AGITATIONAL ACTIVITIES IN GUERRERO

ACQ: MEXICO, MEXICO CITY (29 AUGUST 1967) FIELD REPORT
NO. HMM-11,295
KP 1-14-98
GMB-3/14/97 (JFK)
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION
TO DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF CAINFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENTAS SANITIZED

SOURCE: [MEXICAN SECURITY OFFICER WITH ACCESS TO INFORMATION (C) DERIVED FROM INVESTIGATIVE ACTIVITIES.] HIS REPORTING HAS BEEN RELIABLE SINCE EARLY 1966.
ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 9-18-95 BY 5668510
(JEKJES LO/KSR
ST-125
REC 18 N9-12-22

FIELD COMMENT: THE ROLE OF FEDERAL DEPUTY FROM THE STATE OF VERACRUZ, CESAR DEL ANGEL FUENTES, IN THE CLASH BETWEEN RIVAL FACTIONS OF THE COPRA GROWERS' UNION IN ACAPULCO, GUERRERO, OVER THE WEEKEND OF 19-20 AUGUST 1967, RESULTING IN THE DEATH OF ABOUT THIRTY PERSONS AND THE WOUNDING OF ABOUT ONE HUNDRED, HAS BEEN WIDELY PUBLICIZED IN THE MEXICAN "PRESS."
THERE HAS BEEN SPECULATION THAT HE WOULD BE ARRESTED, BUT FOR HIS CONGRESSIONAL IMMUNITY. HIS IMMUNITY, HOWEVER, EXPIRES 1 SEPTEMBER 1967.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L NO FOREIGN DISSEM 109-12-22

NW 50953 DocId: 32301685 Page 2

279-10020
AUG 31 11 45 AM ’67
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
LIAISON SECTION FBI.
NO FOREIGN
(classification,
(dissem controls)
DISSEM
IN-41475
TDCS-314/13013-67
PAGE 2 OF 2 PAGES

WITH HIS TERM ON 1 SEPTEMBER.
ON 28 AUGUST 1967, AGENTS OF THE MINISTRY OF GOVERNMENT (GOBERNACION) ARRESTED FEDERAL DEPUTY CESAR DEL ANGEL AS HE WAS LEAVING THE HOME OF ELENA GARRO DE PAZ, LEFTIST MEXICAN PLAYWRIGHT. HE IS BEING INTERROGATED ABOUT HIS ROLE IN THE "ACAPULCO MURDERS."

FIELD DISSEM: STATE ARMY NAVY AIR FBI CINCSO
REPORT CLASS: CONFIDENTIAL NO FOREIGN DISSEM

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

NW 50953 DocId: 32301685 Page 3
