124-10284-10155

[2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 6/8/2015

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10284-10155
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-12-210-2088

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: LEG, PA
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 07/29/1960
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS: EPE, BAYO, ALBERTO, POLIT, REVOLUTIONARY ACT
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/03/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: v9.1

NW 50953 DocId: 32303643 Page 1

THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

American Embassy
Paris 8, France
July 29, 1960

To: Director, FBI
From: Legat, Paris (109-24)
Subject: CUBAN POLITICAL ACTIVITIES
Re Paris letter 7/21/60.

During a visit to Bern, Switzerland, the captioned matter was discussed with BURTON LIFSCHULTZ, Chief of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), Switzerland. He advised that the Cuban Ambassador, SALAZAR-SANCHEZ, had been dismissed by the Cuban Government and his replacement has not yet arrived. LIFSCHULTZ advised that it has been rumored that he will be replaced by one BAYO. He stated that this individual has not as yet been definitely identified and no background information is available regarding him. He stated, however, that he may be identical with the son of "General" ALBERTO BAYO who has previously been reported as a Spaniard who assisted in the CASTRO revolution and who has reportedly been active in revolutionary activities in Spain.

This is furnished for the information of the Bureau. In the event further specific information is received, the Bureau will be advised.

Bureau (1 - Havana).
Madrid (sent direct)
Paris

NWP:mas

Copy to Havana
by routing slip for
action

NW 50953 DocId: 32303643 Page 2

Copies made
On 10/31/77
For review at FDIAQ by.
HSCA per nez. 9/7/77

DJC: mer

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
RELEASE OF SULFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT, EXCEPT
the brackets

109-12-210, 2088
