124-90140-10004
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90140-10004
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 100-398547-60
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: HQ
TO: CIA
TITLE: ANGELA PRINCE MOUTSOS
DATE: 03/13/1963
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS: CIA LIAISON MATERIAL
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: MEMO
Date: 4/21/201

NW 50953 DocId: 32338047 Page 1

(SC) 100-398547-60
Date: March 13, 1963
COPIES MADE, DATE 6-9-78 BY:
FOR REVIEW AT FBIHO AND/OR DELIVERY TO HSCA RE REQUEST DATED 4/28
(SEE BUFILE 62-117291) - Liaison

To: Director, Central Intelligence Agency
Attention: Deputy Director, Plans
From: John Edgar Hoover, Director
Subject: ANGELA PRINCE MOUTSOS
SECURITY MATTER

Reference is made to prior communications concerning the captioned individual.

It would be appreciated if you would advise this Bureau of any information which has come to your attention indicating continued residence by the captioned individual in Cuba. Any additional information which you may have received concerning her activities in that country would also be appreciated.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT
WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD/1052
DECLASSIFY ON: 25X 1

You will be advised concerning the results of the above inquiry.

NOTE ON YELLOW:
Subject is in SI. She traveled to Cuba in December, 1960 to join her husband, Pedros Moutsos, who, in the past, has acted as CIA informant. New York requested contact with CIA for information of subject's current residence in Cuba and her activities.

Tolson
Belmont
Mohr
Casper
Callahan
Conrad
DeLoach
Evans
Gale
Rosen
Sullivan
Tavel
Trotter
Tele. Room
Holmes
Gandy

ATTENTION SAC, NEW YORK:
Reurlet 3/1/63.

New York (100-112920) (See note)
BY COURIER SVG.

WHF: cad

MAIL ROOM
TELETYPE UNIT

SECRET

NW 50953 DocId:32338047 Page 2
