[24-10213-10483] 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System Date: 6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10213-10483
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: CR 105-121229-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: CIA
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 05/27/1963
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS: LCA, ASSOC, CUBA IN ARMS
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/19/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS:

v9.1
NW 50953 DocId: 32294707 Page 1

INFORMATION REPORT
CENTRAL INTELIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

COUNTRY Cuba
SUBJECT Frente Interno de Unidad Revolucionaria (FIUR)
REPORT NO. K-3,262,509
DATE DISTR. 27 May 63
NO. PAGES 2
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR REFERENCES RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION Guide 303-BR
DATE OF INFO. 25 Apr 63 and earlier IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT THE BRACKETS
PLACE & DATE ACQ. ---/25 Apr 63 and earlier
SOURCE: Cuban national presently residing in the United States.

1. Source was a prominent sports writer and a very active member of the Havana Yacht Club. He is presently employed as a reporter on a large newspaper and is in close contact with Cuban exile leaders.

[This report was developed by an AFNIN Air Force representative assigned to the office of preparation.]

[ON FILE IN THE CIA LIBRARY is a copy, in Spanish, of the Frente Interno de Unidad Revolucionaria FIUR.]

2. A Cuban exile, Julio Leal, residing at 4823 East 8th Court, Hialeah, Florida, claims to be the US Delegate of the "Cuban Government in Arms". He also claims that he received a copy of a proclamation prepared by members of the FIUR, in Cuba, and was authorized to release it to publicity sources. He provided me with a copy of the FIUR declaration. [See On File Material.]

On 25 Apr 63 Leal furnished me with a copy of a document, in Spanish, which showed the appointments to executive and cabinet posts of the Provisional Government of the Republic of Cuba in Arms. The names are:

President - To be announced at a later date for reasons of security.
Vice-President - Dr. Gustavo Cuervo Rubio
Premier - Dr. Jose Manuel Gutierrez
Secretary to the President - To be announced at a later date.
Minister of State - Dr. Carlos Prio Socarras
Minister of Communications - Luis Conte Aguero
Minister of Transportation - Dr. Aureliano Sanchez Arar
Minister of Commerce - Abel Mestre
Minister of Justice - Dr. Ricardo Rafael Sar
Minister of Interior - Dr. Manuel Antonio de Varona
Minister of Education - Dr. Jose Ignacio Lazaga
Minister of Public Works - Ing. Manuel Ray
Minister of Health - Now in Cuba, name not revealed for security reasons.
Minister of Defense - Now in Cuba, name not revealed for security reasons.
Minister of Labor - Now in Cuba, name not revealed for security reasons.
Minister of Agriculture - Now in Cuba, name not revealed for security reasons.
Minister of Public Housing - To be announced at a later date.

Copy to MM/V4/WFO/S.J.
by routing slip for info
date 6-5-63
action
by unr/St
copies made

JUN 4 1963

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification
HSCA re 3-14

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

The following individuals have been named Ministers without portfolio and subsecretaries:

Jose Ignacio Rivero
Manuel Reyes
Jorge Castellanos
Lauraeano Batista Falla
Agusto Fernandez Conde
Humberto Medrano
Fermin Peinado
Melchor Gaston
Manuel Fernandez
Enrique Huertas
Manuel Salvat
Designated Ambassador to Washington - Dr. Guillermo Belt
OAS Delegate - Dr. Herminio Portell Vila

3. I doubt that Leal has been designated as the US representative for FIUR, and do not believe that the documents he gave me originated in Cuba. I suspect that another group of exiled Cuban politicians wrote the document in the US, and are trying to get national publicity in order to get support. I have recently heard that Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo has been added to the list of Cabinet appointments. I doubt very much that Gutierrez and Ray would be fully accepted by the majority of Cubans in exile.

-end-

NW 50953 DocId: 32294707 Page 3
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
