124-90137-10488 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY : FBI
RECORD NUMBER : 124-90137-10488
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR : CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
FROM: CIA
TO: HQ
TITLE: [Restricted]
DATE: 07/27/1961
PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS : CIA LIAISON MATERIAL
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Secret
RESTRICTIONS : 1B; 1C
CURRENT STATUS : Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/28/1998
OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS : MEMO

v9.1
HW 50953 DocId:32337722 Page 1

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

TO: Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation (JFK)
Attention: Mr. S. J. Papich
FROM: Deputy Director, Plans
SUBJECT: Eduardo Espinosa y Prieto, born 24 January 1909, Mexico City, Mexico

1. This Agency was queried recently by the BfV (Bundesamt fuer Verfassungsschutz - Federal Agency for the Protection of the Constitution), Germany for information on Subject. A German citizen in Bremen, suspected of Polish Intelligence Service activities, received a $1,000.00 deposit in his account from Espinosa.

2. Your permission is requested to pass the following information, some of which was obtained from your files, to the German authorities:

[Eduardo Espinosa] (S)
[born 24 January 1909, Mexico City, Mexico, appointed Mexican Ambassador to Warsaw] during the summer of 1960. August 1957 to summer 1960 [accredited to the United Nations Headquarters] in New York City with the rank of Ambassador as an Alternate Permanent Delegate. [During his New York City tenure, he was known to write bank drafts to persons known to be active Communist workers. It was suggested that he was used as a means of financing Communist Party activities,] appears to be a Soviet contact, and that his wife, one

[Tamara Espinosa, nee Pechkurova, native Russian] (S)
was reported to have been an agent of the Soviet security services. She was admitted to Mexico in September 1947. When [Espinosa y Prieto] was in Mexico, he was in close touch with the Soviet Embassy and expedited visas for Soviet delegations. The couple were particularly friendly with Soviet Ambassador Kapustin during 1953. [Mrs. Espinosa's] brother died in a Soviet prison in 1953, and her mother still resides in the USSR.

These facts might indicate a Soviet hold over [Espinosa.] Various opinions collected from persons who knew [Espinosa,] when he served in Shanghai, Bogota, Mexico, Caracas, Togoland, and the U. S., vary from "basically friendly to the U.S." to the following: That he had been a penetration agent in the Axis group (in Shanghai) on behalf of the

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
REC-52
IN THIS DOCUMENT, EXCEPT FOR BRACKETS

HW 50953 DocId:32337722 Page 2

SECRET

-2-

Mexico for several years, and so on. The bulk of opinions are derogatory in nature: Petrov identified [Mrs. Espinosa] as an MVD agent.

CSCI-3/766, 521

HW 50953 DocId:32337722 Page 3
