fi24-10274-10029 [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]
5-113 (Rev. 3-21-73)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE
SECRET

10/10/00 FMDR/6
CLASSIFIED BY SP-2 ALM/2/6
DECLASSIFY ON: 25

Intelligence Division

INFORMATIVE NOTE

Date 8/4/75

In connection with our responses to the Senate Select Committee (SSC), the White House has instructed that the Intelligence Community prepare a briefing for Senators Church and Tower of the SSC regarding warrantless electronic surveillances and surreptitious entries. During meetings of the Intelligence Community, it was agreed that NSA, FBI and CIA would give the briefings. No date has been scheduled for the briefings, although it is anticipated representatives of the White House will monitor a preview of the actual briefing to be given Senators Church and Tower.

During meetings of the Intelligence Community representatives, to discuss the contents of such a briefing, it was agreed among representatives of NSA, CIA and FBI that efforts would be made to avoid identifying specific foreign targets of surreptitious entries or warrantless electronic surveillances.

Attached is a memorandum from CIA advising that CIA has already disseminated to the SSC information concerning sensitive technical operations against certain Embassies and diplomatic establishments in the U.S.

ACTION: For information and record purposes.

SECRET
Classified by
Exempt from GDS, Category
Date of Declassification Indefinite

---

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY 1962 EDITION
GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO: Mr. J. B. Adams
FROM: Legal Counsel
SUBJECT: SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

DATE: 8/6/75

Assoc. Dir.
Dep. AD Adm.
Dep. AD Inv.
Asst. Dir.:
Admin.
Comp. Syst.
Ext. Affairs
Files & Com.
Gen. Inv.
Ident.
Inspection
Intell.
Laboratory
Legal Coun.
Plan. & Eval.
Spec. Inv.
Training
Telephone Rm.
Director Sec'y

On 8/6/75, Daniel M. (Mac) Armstrong, III, who was on the personal staff of former Acting Director Gray, called to advise that he had been contacted by John Elliff. He had known Elliff casually during the confirmation hearings regarding Mr. Gray. Elliff told him that he was personally interested in determining background on two matters which were: (1) the decision to abolish the Crime Records Division; and (2) the Legal Attache program.

Armstrong told him that he had no knowledge concerning the Crime Records Division and had not even learned of its abolishment until after the fact. Armstrong referred Elliff to Dave Kinley regarding that topic. Armstrong said that Elliff did not want to talk to him concerning the Legal Attache program over the phone and said he would contact him in the near future for an appointment to see him personally.

Armstrong said he was passing this information along to us in order to keep us advised of his contacts with the Senate Select Committee concerning his Bureau information which came to him as a result of his Bureau employment.

RECOMMENDATION:

EX-101

For information.

Mr. Wannall
Mr. Hotis
Mr. Mintz
Mr. Herington

JH:mfd

AUG 15 1975

AUG 26 1975 Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

---

SENSITIVE
SECRET

MEMORANDUM

DivD-75/327
4 August 1975

SUBJECT: Senate Select Committee Staff Knowledge of CIA Domestic Electronic Surveillance Against Foreign Targets

Assoc. Dir.
Dep. AD Adm
Dep. AD
Asst. Dir.:
Admin.
Comp. Syst.
Ext. Affairs
Files & Com.
Gen. Inv.
Ident.
Inspection
Intell.
Laboratory
Legal Coun.
Plan. & Eval.
Spec. Inv.
Training
Telephone Rm.
Director Sec'y

1. In our discussions preparatory to the briefing to be given to Senators Church and Tower, we have agreed to try to avoid identifying specific foreign targets of the various types of operations which will be discussed, although it was generally recognized that it would be impossible to avoid discussing the Soviet target specifically. I have recently learned that the SSC Staff is aware of the fact (from material turned over to them by CIA) that CIA "participated in a series of electronic surveillance operations in the U.S." The information is contained in a single paragraph, which goes on to say:

"Included among them are operations against the Czech Embassy, the UAR Embassy, the Chilean Embassy, the Soviet Consulate in San Francisco, the present Soviet Embassy, the planned Soviet Embassy, and the quarters occupied by the Chinese Communists in New York City."

2. This being so, it can be expected that the Staff will have brought this information to the senators' attention, and I will be prepared to respond factually to questions with respect to these operations, which of course were carried out in pursuit of NSA requirements, and with FBI coordination and/or support.

3. Notwithstanding this regrettable breach in the principle we have agreed to try to maintain, I believe we should resist pressures to expand on the number of identified targets.

Edward Ryan
Chief, Division

CC: NSA (Mr. Richard Kern)
FBI (Mr. William Cregar)
IC Staff (Adm. Showers)

AUG 18 1975

SECRET
SENSITIVE
