2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 4/9/2015

**Agency Information**
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10326-10149
RECORD SERIES: NY
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-35253-991

**Document Information**
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: NY
TO: HQ
TITLE: ANTI CASTRO ACTIVITIES IS-CUBA
DATE: 04/05/1962
PAGES: 5
SUBJECTS: ANTI CASTRO ACTIVITIES IS-CUBA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/09/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS:

NW 50953 DocId: 32313221 Page 1

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO DECLASSIFYING AND/OR RELEASING INFORMATION IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT COPY BRACKETS. ALL INFORMATION IS UNCLASSIFIED.

SAC, FBI (109-584) APR 5 1962
SAC, NEW YORK (105-35253)

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES
IS-CUBA

ReNYlet to Bureau dated 3/29/62.

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SUD/152
DECLASSIFY ON: 25X1 (JFK)

MICHAEL J. P. MALONE, Vice-President, Czarnikow-Rionda Company, 106 Wall St., NYC, who is also employed by ROBERT KLEBERG of the King Ranch, Kingsville, Texas, advised on 3/30/62, that he had memoranda of his recent conversations in Washington, D.C., which he furnished the NYO. The memoranda of MALONE were written for ROBERT KLEBERG as a result of KLEBERG's meeting with Vice President LYNDON B. JOHNSON on 3/15/62.

In connection with MALONE's conversation with HERBERT of the CIA, who was described as an assistant to Colonel KING, MALONE wrote that HERBERT had informed him that CIA separated the section in CIA which deals solely with Cuba.

MALONE wrote in his memorandum that HERBERT told him that he, HERBERT, did not agree with the general opinion of Vice President LYNDON JOHNSON relative to the lack of plans by President KENNEDY relative to Cuba. HERBERT told MALONE that he believed that President JOHN F. KENNEDY would act in the event of a crisis in Cuba and he believed that the opinion expressed by LYNDON B. JOHNSON with ROBERT KLEBERG on 3/15/62, was true as of many months ago.

MALONE wrote in his memorandum to KLEBERG that HERBERT was of the opinion that within the next two to three months, a favorable and appropriate climate will be created inside Cuba which would be favorable to some type of activity to overthrow the CASTRO Government.

MALONE in the same memorandum wrote that HERBERT expressed the opinion that the US Government should not loan Chile 385 million dollars as proposed by TEODORO MOSCOSO of the Alliance For Progress Program. HERBERT stated that he is very familiar with Chile and did not believe that they were in a position to intelligently utilize such a large sum of money and expressed an opinion that at the Foreign Ministers meeting at Punta del Este, Uruguay, in January, 1962, Chile was against the US's position. HERBERT expressed the opinion that the US should give more encouragement to Colombia and Argentina, who have already drawn up programs for social reform within the countries.

Bureau (109-584)
New York (105-35253)

NW 50953 DocId: 32313221 Page 2

SECRET

NY 105-35253

MALONE also wrote in his memorandum that HERBERT expressed the opinion that MALONE and his associates should attempt to discuss the Cuban question with Attorney General ROBERT F. KENNEDY as he believes the Attorney General was a very strong minded individual and if he made a decision, would carry it out. HERBERT also stated that he believed MALONE and his associates should also talk with Senators HUMPHREY and MC CARTHY, both members of the "New Frontier", who are also individuals who can make a tremendous impression on President KENNEDY. HERBERT stated that he would furnish MALONE some ideas relative to contacting Senator HUMPHREY.

MALONE, on 3/30/62, furnished a second memo which he had written to ROBERT KLEBERG relative to his conversation with a CIA contact, CHARLES MAECHIN.

MALONE wrote that MAECHIN had informed him that the section within CIA handling Cuba has been separated from the rest of CIA and now functions as an individual unit and has its counterpart in the Departments of Defense and State.

MALONE wrote that he had discussed with MAECHIN Vice President JOHNSON's opinion that President KENNEDY would not act in Cuba or commit US troops in Cuba, and MAECHIN stated that he did not exactly agree with this opinion of Vice President JOHNSON's, but believed that if President KENNEDY was confronted with a situation, he would act with firmness despite possible repercussions in Berlin and Viet Nam.

NW 50953 DocId: 32313221 Page 3

SECRET

NY 105-35253

MALONE stated that MAECHIN indicated that there was a CIA plan in the formative stage relative to Cuba, and that he was hopeful that they would have something to work on soon which would give CIA more authority on which to operate. MAECHIN also indicated to MALONE that a military build-up can be expected in the Florida area, and that a minor one is already taking place at the present time at the US Naval Base at Guantanamo, Oriente Province, Cuba. MAECHIN stressed that out of necessity future operations against Cuba would have to take place from an off-shore area because of security of the operation. MALONE also wrote in his memo that MAECHIN told him to tell ALBERTO FERNANDEZ of Key Biscayne, Florida, to be patient and that before long, CIA would fully utilize his abilities and equipment.

MALONE also furnished on 3/30/62, a copy of his memo to ROBERT KLEBERG relative to MALONE's conversation on 3/15/62, with SERAFINO ROMUALDI of the Latin American Section of the AFL-CIO. In this memo to KLEBERG, MALONE wrote that ROMUALDI stated that President KENNEDY was still being pushed and pulled by the "Intelligentsia" who were identified as ARTHUR SCHLESINGER and ADLAI STEVENSON, toward following a soft line relative to Cuba. ROMUALDI told MALONE that RICHARD N. GOODWIN of the US Department of State apparently was waking up to the fact that the future of President KENNEDY depends upon a strong, firm policy and the elimination of CASTRO and Communism in Cuba immediately. ROMUALDI told MALONE that his opinion of GOODWIN's present thinking was gathered from individuals who dealt directly with GOODWIN concerning Cuba.

MALONE wrote to KLEBERG that ROMUALDI also recommended that he, MALONE, and his associates attempt to get an appointment with Attorney General ROBERT F. KENNEDY relative to Cuba as ROBERT KENNEDY is the strong influence on the President and has been pressuring the President to get rid of what he calls the "featherheads".

NW 50953 DocId: 32313221 Page 4

SECRET
