124-10326-10105

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10326-10105
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-99724-81

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: HQ
TO:
TITLE: BUREAU SOURCE 100 (ANGLETON)
DATE: 04/20/1970
PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/17/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: INC MEMO

v9.1

HW 50953 DocId: 32313177 Page 1

SECRET

Tolson
DeLoach
Walters
Mohr
Bishop
Casper
Callahan
Conrad
Felt
Gale
Rosen
Tele. Room
Holmes
Gandy

Liaison
Mr. Cassidy

April 20, 1970

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN
OTHERWISE

SP LETTER SERIES

Reference is made to your SP-9038 dated April 9, 1970. We feel that the method of addressing and forwarding SP material as utilized in this instance will enable us to handle such information in a discreet manner and request that you continue to forward this material in this manner.

With regard to SCOPE items, your suggestion as set forth in paragraph two of reference will enable us to handle this highly sensitive material in the proper manner and request that you forward it as proposed.

62-99724
ORIGINAL & 1 TO CIA
FJC: wmk/aga

NOTE:
In 1954 a procedure was approved whereby we could attribute certain information received from CIA under the symbol "Bureau Informant 100." CIA forwards this information utilizing an SP (Special Projects) number. They are asking our concurrence in a method of addressing and forwarding this material. They also suggested forwarding [SCOPE] material (sensitive information concerning [Israeli intelligence activities]) in the same manner. They proposed to forward this material by courier in sealed envelopes to be delivered to Liaison Section Supervisor D. J. Brennan, Jr. It is felt this is the best way in which this highly sensitive material can be handled.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT.

TELETYPE UNIT

HW 50953 DocId: 32313177 Page 2

SECRET

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT. JM 6-29-98

SP-9038
9 April 1970
SUBJECT: SP Letter Series
James Angleton

1. In this same envelope we are forwarding other items which have interested you in the past and for which the SP series was originally set up. We would like you to confirm to us that this method of addressing and forwarding this material enables your office to handle it in the discreet manner as has been the case without exception in the past.

2. We have a few items in the SCOPE area which we would also like to forward. We suggest that the SCOPE material be forwarded in the same envelope with the regular SP letters, separately wrapped. We request your approval for handling the SCOPE material in this way.

3. Please coordinate any correspondence on this subject with Mr. D. J. Brennan.

HW 50953 DocId: 32313177 Page 3
