124-90110-10072

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90110-10072
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-114623-7
ORIGINATOR: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
FROM: CIA
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: 04/09/1963
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS: FRANC PECAR, JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/06/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: MEMO
Date: 6/2/2015

NW 50953 DocId: 32334079 Page 1

--- Page 2 ---

SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

RECEIVED IN
APR 12 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director
SUBJECT: Franc PECAR

Federal Bureau of Investigation
Attention: Mr. S. J. Papich

LIAISON
9 APR 1963

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT, EXCEPT BRACKETS

1. Reference is made to our memoranda CSCI-3/775,509, dated 29 March 1963, CSCI-3/775,572, dated 2 April 1963, and CSCI-3/775,622, dated 4 April 1963, all with the subject as above.

2. Another office of this Agency has provided the following additional information from Joseph MEROLA concerning Subject.

a. Subject arrived in Miami, Florida, on 4 April and resided with Joseph MEROLA until 6 April 1963 when he was scheduled to return to New York. Subject planned to return to Miami for the period of 12-19 April following which he would go to Vienna for a short visit, returning to the United States about the end of April. Subject's family will remain in the United States.

b. According to MEROLA, Subject met Assistant Attorney General William Kenny in Miami, but MEROLA had no further details on their conversation except that PECAR appeared most eager to make arrangements to stay in the United States. Subject showed MEROLA and Kenny voluminous documentation.

3. This office is considering contacting Subject during his visit to Vienna for the purpose of attempting recruitment to return to Yugoslavia. An early reply regarding information available to your Bureau concerning PECAR's activities in the United States would be appreciated.

Copy for NY Miami

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR (PLANS):
JAMES ANGLETON

6 page statement of Pecar furnished CIA by Bulate 4/18/63

CSC-3/775,718

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification

Classified by 588 MAC/KSA
Declassify on: OADR

X.1302-26-28-556/21

(See Bufile #62-117290)

[HCFR 1-20-78 requests review at FBIHQ by J. Angleson]

APR 15 1963

DECLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLO/KSR
ON 5-30-98

(JFK)

NW 50953 DocId: 32334079 Page 2
