124-90037-10081

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System Date: 5/26/201
Identification Form

Agency Information
AGENCY : FBI
RECORD NUMBER : 124-90037-10081
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 100-380792-26

Document Information
ORIGINATOR : FBI
FROM: BN
TO: HQ
TITLE : MARTIN GREENDLINGER
DATE: 01/29/1959
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS : MARTIN GREENDLINGER
DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Secret
RESTRICTIONS : 1B; 4
CURRENT STATUS : Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/07/1998
OPENING CRITERIA : APPROVAL OF CIA, INDEFINITE
COMMENTS : MEMO

v9.1
NW 50953 DocId: 32325799 Page 1

---

STANDARD FORM NO. 64
Office Memorandum
TO : DIRECTOR, FBI DATE: 1/29/59
FROM : LEGAT, BONN (100-633)
SUBJECT: MARTIN GREENDLINGER, aka
SECURITY MATTER
Classified by SP6BJA/GEL
Declassify on: BADR/28/85
(SP8 MAC /GCL-4/15/94-JFK)

Reference New York letterhead memorandum 11/17/58, furnished by Bureau routing slip 11/24/58.

The following agencies were furnished a summary of the New York information on the subject and were requested to provide any information which might come to their attention regarding the subject's travels or activities:

G-2, Headquarters, U.S. Army Europe;
Office of Special Investigations, U.S. Air Forces, Europe;
Office of Coordinator and Special Advisor (confidential CIA);
American Embassy, Bonn, Germany;
British Services Security Organization, British Forces in Germany;
Abteilung II (Security Police), Austrian Ministry of the Interior;
Bundesamt fuer Verfassungsschutz (BfV - West German Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution) and,
Security Office, American Embassy, Vienna, Austria.

None of these agencies, except the British have furnished any information to date. The British Services Security Organization advised under date of 12/30/58, that it had no trace in its records on the subject, his parents, Mr. and Mrs. DAVID GREENDLINGER, or his wife, ELENA IVANOVNA.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION REC 60
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
AGENCY /cc-NH
NEQ RFID
FORMATION
ANYS Martin (Greendly
Greending by
100-380792-26
IN THIS COMMENT, EXCEPT BRACKETS
DATE TO. 2-14-59
HOW FOR R/S (10-273
BY SAEUPIAE COKWO
IDH: mix
BEC.D
7 FEB 1959
EX-102 KP 10-10-97
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN
OTHERWISE
LED 5 500 64.28
52 FEB 11 1959
bONCH WVIr
SUBV. CONTROL
NW 50953 DocId: 32325799 Page 2
SECRET
