124-90137-10355

[ 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 ]
JFK Assassination System. Date: 4/17/201

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90137-10355
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR SEE TITLE
ORIGINATOR:
FROM: FBI
TO: CIA

Document Information
TITLE: [Restricted]
DATE: 08/28/1961
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS: CIA LIAISON MATERIAL: [Restricted]
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1
HW 50953 DocId:32337589 Page 1

SECRET
Liaison Section
Mr. Donahoe
Mr. Little
Mr. Meier

(105-24642-75)

Date: August 28, 1961
To: Director
Central Intelligence Agency
Attention: Deputy Director, Plans
From: John Edgar Hoover, Director
Subject: EDUARDO ESPINOSA Y PRIETO

COPIES MADE, DATE
BY
FOR REVIEW AT FBI AND/OR DELIVERY
TO HSCA RE REQUEST DATED
(SEE BUFILE 62-117290)

INTERNAL SECURITY -R - MEXICO,
5668 SLD/Gee
4/139/9/5 (JFK)
∙11-94
Classified by 5668 Realty
Declassify on: OADR
211326

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT
WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

Reference is made to your letter dated August 21, 1961, your reference CSCI-3/766()(u)

Preview of this Bureau's file on subject fails to prove that he wrote bank drafts to active communist workers with the possible exception of Alicia Merino Fuentes. With regard to her, the only allegation that she was an active communist worker was made in February, 1941, by a person whose reliability was unknown to the United States Embassy in Mexico City, D. F. Our investigation failed to substantiate this allegation and you were so advised by letter under above caption dated September 24, 1959. Furthermore, at the time subject's bank draft to her was written (February 10, 1958) subject and Merino Fuentes were both connected with the Mexican Mission to the United Nations, a fact which tends to reduce the intelligence significance of this payment.

Based on information in the files of this Bureau, it appears inadvisable to include in your summary to the Bundesamt fuer Verfassungsschutz (BfV), Germany, that subject wrote bank drafts to active communist workers or to suggest that he "was used as a means of financing Communist Party activities."

Tolson
Belmont
Mohr
Callahan
Conrad
DeLoach
Evans
Malone
Rosen
Sullivan
Tavel
Trotter
Tele. Room
Ingram
Gandy

BY COURIER SVC.
46 AUG 29

SEE NOTE PAGE 2

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLAN AND/OR
RELEASE OF INFORMATION.
11/7/99/0
SBD4
5668 SLD/115h
7-4-98
DOCUMENT. EXCEPT BRACKETS CLASSIFIED BY 5668-1 (JFK)
ANVAS
1961
MAIL ROOM
KP 5-18
TELETYPE UNIT
298

HW 50953 DocId: 32337589 Page 2
SECRET

SECRET
Director
Central Intelligence Agency

NOTE: Top (u)
This letter is classified "Secret" because it contains information so classified by CIA.
CIA (22 (u)

CIA seeks to pass a summary of information concerning subject to the BfV in Germany and has requested permission to include the following in this summary stating it comes from our files:

"During his New York City tenure, he was known to write bank drafts to persons known to be active Communist workers. It was suggested that he was used as a means of financing Communist Party activities." ()(u)

CIA stated above conclusion "was apparently based on numerous Bureau reports written during 1957 and 1958." CIA refers specifically to only one bank draft, it having been written by subject to Alicia Merino Fuentes and states that our report dated 10/12/56 contained information that she was an active communist. This report was in the case on Merino Fuentes and the only allegation that she was an active communist was the 1941 allegation made to the Embassy in Mexico. Bureau has developed no information indicating payees of other bank drafts written by subject had subversive associations or sympathies.

HW 50953 DocId: 32337589 Page 3
SECRET
