124-10239-10171 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10239-10171
RECORD SERIES: MX
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-3702-464

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: TRENT, ROLAND E.
TO: LEG, MX
TITLE:
DATE: 03/13/1964
PAGES: 4
SUBJECT: LHO, POST-RP, ASSOC, BKG, LIAISON WITH MX AUTHORITIES
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
ORIGINAL CLASSIFICATION: Secret
NEW CLASSIFICATION:
REVIEW DATE: 12/17/1998 UPDATE DATE: 02/14/2001
STATUS: Redact
RESTRICTIONS: JFK Act 6 (1)(B)
COMMENTS:

HW 50953 DocId: 32183961 Page 1

--- Page 2 ---

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY 1962 EDITION
A GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum

TO: Legat, Mexico (105-3702)
FROM: SA Roland E. Trent
SUBJECT: LEE HARVEY OSWALD

SECRET

DATE: 03/13/1964

RE: Allegation of PEDRO GUTIERREZ VALENCIAL

RE: JP-16.

On 3-13-64, MARGARITA MUNGUIA, Visa Section, U.S. Embassy, Mexico, D.F., made available visa file data concerning ERNESTO MITRANI LEVY, holder of Cuban passport No. 26367, issued in December, 1959, with expiration date in 1964.

Addresses for this individual were given as Miguel Aleman #259, Apartment #301, Mexico, Colonia Roma, Mexico, D.F., and Calle Arellano Esquina "C", #269, Havana, Cuba.

MITRANI's date of birth is shown as December 29, 1936, at Havana, Cuba, and he is further described as fair complexion, 5' 7", 176 lbs., Cuban national, no scars or marks, brown hair and green eyes. The visa file data also shows MITRANI to be of Turkish extraction.

MITRANI secured a one entry B-2 visa on 3-27-61 valid through 4-27-61, for the alleged purpose of a pleasure trip to Los Angeles, California.

The visa file card contains a photograph of ERNESTO MITRANI and this card indicated his employment as of January, 1961, as a merchant and manufacturer of plastics.

The application made by MITRANI at the U.S. Embassy, Mexico, D.F. in January, 1961, was for a non-immigrant visa to visit the U.S.

HW 50953 DocId: 32183961 Page 2

--- Page 3 ---

The following information is classified "SECRET" and not to be further disseminated without specific authority of the CIA, Mexico City Station.

As of 7-6-61 one E. MITRANI was working in the Cuban Consulate, Mexico, D.F. and had reportedly offered to cooperate with anti-Castro persons in Mexico, D.F.

The E. MITRANI mentioned above was subsequently identified as ERNESTO MITRANI.

ERNESTO MITRANI aka E. Mitrani, mentioned above, was subsequently identified as ERNESTO MITRANI LEVY, who in about December, 1959 was employed as an "Auxiliary Consular Clerk" in the Cuban Embassy, Mexico, D.F. ERNESTO MITRANI LEVY had reportedly been helpful to anti-CASTRO forces in Mexico.

On October 24, 1960, MITRANI received a telegram recalling him to Havana, Cuba; however, he did not want to return to Cuba, and reportedly went to the then Ambassador PORTUONDO, and explained that he planned on marrying a Mexican girl; that his father had offered him employment in Mexico, and for these reasons he did not want to return to Cuba. PORTUONDO reportedly counseled MITRANI to write to the Cuban Foreign Office in Havana and explain his problem, which MITRANI reportedly did. At that time MITRANI was the holder of Cuban Diplomatic passport No. 480 and also held a regular passport.

MITRANI reportedly had arrived in Mexico on December 15, 1959; he was a bachelor at the time of his arrival, and his father was reportedly engaged in business in Mexico. His residence in about 1960 was given as residing at the corner of Avenida Insurgentes Sur and Viaducto Miguel Aleman, Mexico, D.F., telephone No. 11-96-11. The telephone and address data was as of 10-24-60.

MITRANI was reportedly in contact with the USIA, U.S. Embassy, Mexico, D.F., in 1960 in regard to his desire to remain in Mexico, and MITRANI was reportedly told that a visa to enter the U.S. would be arranged for him if he would publically denounce the Cuban regime.

MITRANI reportedly never publically denounced the Cuban regime although CIA file data reflects that someone wrote to the Cuban Embassy in 1960 stating that MITRANI was a "spy" and cooperating with anti-CASTRO forces.

MITRANI reportedly acting as a "cut-out" supplied one report to the CIA, Mexico City station which was submitted on or about 8-13-62.

The CIA, Mexico City Station has no data on file concerning MITRANI since 8-13-62.

Above CIA data secured from DAVID PHILLIPS.

HW 50953 DocId: 32183961 Page 3

--- Page 4 ---

MC File review concerning ERNESTO MITRANI revealed the following:

MC File 105-1713, Ser. 18, Pg. 3, and Ser. 19, entitled "COMMUNIST PENETRATION OF CUBAN DIPLOMATIC ESTABLISHMENTS, FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS - CUBA" (BUfile 105-89084) contains letterhead memorandum dated 10-24-60, which indicates that ERNESTO MITRANI LEVY was then an Assistant Consul, Cuban Embassy, Mexico, D.F. Classified "SECRET" from CIA, Mexico City Station.

MC File 109-70, Ser. 850, (BUfile 109-12-210) entitled "FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS -CUBA". Report of SA JOSEPH T. GENCO, 1-12-61, at Mexico, D.F., contains information from PSI FELIX VALDES (MC File 134-6124) that (FNU) MITRANI, an assistant in the Cuban Consulate, Mexico, D.F., was contemplating defecting and leaving his position. As of 1-5-61, according to the PSI, MITRANI was reportedly still working at the Cuban Consulate.

HW 50953 DocId: 32183961 Page 4
