```markdown
File #:
62-116395
Serial Scope:
Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination
Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).
Case #: NW 88296 Date:

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY 1962 EDITION
GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27
5010-106
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum
TO : Mr. J. B. Adams
FROM : W. O. Cregar
SUBJECT: SENSTUDY 75
DATE: April 24, 1975
Assoc. Dir.
Dep. AD Adm.
Dep. AD Inv.
Asst. Dir.:
Admin.
Comp. Syst.
Ext. Affairs
Files & Com.
Gen. Inv.
Ident.
Inspection
Intell.
Laboratory
Plan. & Eval.
Spec. Inv.
Training
Legal Coun.
Telephone Rm.
Director Sec'y

This memorandum reports the receipt of a legal
memorandum prepared by Mr. Edmund Cohen, Office of the General
Counsel, Central Intelligence Agency, entitled "Authority of
Congress to Release Classified Data." Copies of this legal
memorandum have been furnished to Mr. Anthonin Scalia, Assistant
Attorney General, and Mr. James A. Wilderotter, Associate Counsel
to the President.

Memorandum Cregar to W. R. Wannall dated 4/14/75 discussed
an article contained in the 4/10/75 edition of "The Washington Post"
wherein Senator Frank Church, Chairman of the Senate Select
Committee, stated he reserved the right to make public any documents
the Committee received. This memorandum also noted that Mr. James
Wilderotter, Associate Counsel to the President, advised that
The White House was preparing a letter to Senator Church recognizing
that Congress can, at its discretion, declassify material it
receives, but strongly urging that such declassification action
not be taken unilaterally by the Senate Select Committee without
approval of the agency originating the information.

As an aid to the preparation of such a letter, the
Office of CIA's General Counsel has prepared a paper entitled
“Authority of Congress to Release Classified Data." Copy attached.
It was made available to all members of the Ad Hoc Coordinating
Group for Congressional Review of the Intelligence Committee for
information and any comments recipients desired.

ACTION: For information.

Enclosure REC-100
62-116395-150
14 MAY 15 1975
1 - Mr. Adams
1 - Mr. Wannall
1 - Mr. Mintz
1 - Mr. Hotis
1 - Mr. Daly
1 - Mr. Cregar
PVD:ekw
(6)
84 MAY 27 1975
NW 88296 Docid:32989532 Page 2
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 1/19/01 BY SP-2 ALM/JTG
The CIA m. m does not
Solve the problem, the fire,
it requires no formal analysis.

DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE
17 April 1975
Ad Hoc Staff
75-350
MEMORANDUM FOR:
Members of the USIB
Ad Hoc Coordinating
Group

This is being furnished you at
Dr. Clarke's request.

Harriett D. Mowitt
Executive Secretary

Attachment

NW 88296 Docid:32989532 Page 3
ALL FEI INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 1/19/01 BY SP-2 ALM/JTG
62-116395-150

MEMORANDUM FOR: Antonin Scalia, Esq.
Assistant Attorney General
Office of Legal Counsel

Attached is a hurriedly done legal memorandum
entitled "Authority of Congress to Release
Classified Data." I would welcome your comments
on this so that a finished document could be made
available to the various agencies concerned.

John S. Warner
General Counsel
Central Intelligence Agency
12 April 1975
(DATE)

REPLACES FORM 10-101
WHICH MAY BE USED.

MEMORANDUM FOR: James A. Wilderotter, Esq.
Associate Counsel to the
President

Attached is a hurriedly done legal
memorandum entitled "Authority of
Congress to Release Classified Data."

I would welcome your comments on
this so that a finished document
could be made available to the various
agencies concerned.

John S. Warner
General Counsel
Central Intelligence Agency
12 April 1975
(DATE)

REPLACES FORM 10-101
WHICH MAY BE USED.
NW 88296 Docid:32989532 Page 4

MEMORANDUM FOR: General Counsel
SUBJECT: Authority of Congress to Release Classified Data
11 March 1975

1. I have found no express authority for Congress to publicly release
information classified by the executive branch pursuant to an Executive
order issued by the President. Moreover, on a number of occasions Congress
has mandated that matters pertaining to national defense or foreign policy
be kept secret.

--Congress has made it a crime for one lawfully having possession,
access or control of documents relating to national defense or infor-
mation relating to the national defense which the possessor has
reason to believe could be used to the injury of the United States
or to the advantage of any foreign nation to communicate, deliver,
or transmit same to any person not entitled to receive it. 18
U.S.C.A. 793(d).

--Congress has made it a crime to disclose to an unauthorized per-
son or publish any classified information obtained by the processes
of communications intelligence. 18 U.S.C.A. 798(a).

--Congress has made it a crime to photograph or sketch vital military
or naval installations or equipment requiring protection against gen-
eral dissemination of information. 18 U.S.C.A. 795. It is also a
crime to publish or disseminate photographs, maps, or drawings of
such defense installations without first obtaining permission of the
commanding officer or higher authority. 18 U.S.C.A. 797.

--Congress, in order to prevent public disclosure of certain activities,
has given various officials the power to keep confidential certain funds
expended for national security or foreign relations purposes. Such
authority is given, for example, to the President (22 U.S.C.A. 2364),
to the Secretary of State (31 U.S.C.A. 167), and to the Director of
Central Intelligence (50 U.S.C.A. 403j).

NW 88296 Docid:32989532 Page 5

--Congress has provided that meetings of the Senate Committee on
the Budget may be closed to the public if it is determined by a record
vote of a majority of the members that the matter to be discussed
will disclose matters necessary to be kept secret in the
interest of national defense or the confidential conduct of
the foreign relations of the United States. 2 U.S.C.A.
190a-3.

--Congress, after requiring that the Secretary of State transmit forth-
with to the Congress the text of any international agreement, other
than a treaty, to which the United States is a party, goes on to pro-
vide that:

any such agreement the immediate public disclosure
of which would, in the opinion of the President, be prej-
udicial to the national security of the United States shall
not be so transmitted to the Congress but shall be trans-
mitted to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate
and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Rep-
resentatives under an appropriate injunction of secrecy to
be removed only upon due notice from the President.
1 U.S.C.A. 112b.

--Finally, Congress, in enacting the Freedom of Information Act,
expressly exempted from disclosure matters which are
specifically authorized under criteria established
by an Executive order to be kept secret in the interest
of national defense or foreign policy. 5 U.S.C.A.
552(b)(1).

2. Despite this apparent lack of authority to release classified data
and the existence of the above-mentioned statutes, Congress is constitutionally
immunized, at least in part, against any consequences flowing from release
and disclosure of classified information. Article I, § 6 of the Constitution
states in respect to Senators and Representatives that:

...for any Speech or Debate in either House, they shall
not be questioned in any other Place.

NW 88296 Docid:32989532 Page 6

3. A long line of Supreme Court cases, beginning with Kilbourn v.
Thompson, 103 U.S. 168 (1881), has held that the privilege or immunity
relating to speech or debate should be given a broad and liberal construc-
tion. In Kilbourn the court stated:

It would be a narrow view of the Constitutional provision
to limit it to words spoken in debate. The reason of the
rule is as forcible in its application to written reports
presented in that body by its committees, to resolutions
offered, which, though in writing, must be reproduced
in speech, and to the act of voting.... In short, to things
generally done in a session of the House by one of its
members in relation to the business before it. (At p. 204.)

4. The court, moreover, has resisted arguments that an unworthy
purpose should destroy the privilege. In Tenney v. Brandhove, 341 U.S.
367 the court reaffirmed its earlier holding in Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch
87 (1810), stating:

...that it was not consonant with our scheme of govern-
ment for a court to inquire into the motives of legislators,
has remained unquestioned. (At p. 377.)

The distance to which the court was willing to go to uphold this principle
was seen in United States v. Johnson, 383 U.S. 169 (1966). In that case
a former Congressman was convicted for conspiracy to defraud the U.S.,
in part on evidence that, in pursuance of a conspiracy designed to give
assistance to certain savings and loan associations which had been indicted
on mail fraud charges, he was paid to give a speech on the floor of the House.
The Supreme Court granted a new trial holding that a prosecution which
draws in question the legislative acts of the defendant member of Congress
or his motives for performing them "necessarily contravenes the Speech or
Debate Clause." (At p. 185.)

5. The court addressed the issue of classified information in Gravel v.
United States, 408 U.S. 606 (1972), a case which arose when Senator Gravel,
Chairman of the Subcommittee on Buildings and Grounds of the Senate Public
Works Committee, convened a night meeting of the Subcommittee and there
read extensively from a copy of the Pentagon Papers which bore a Defense
security classification of Top Secret - Sensitive. He then placed the entire
47 volumes of the study in the public record. Senator Gravel claimed that
Article I, section 6 protected him from criminal or civil liability and from

NW 88296 Docid:32989532 Page 7

questioning elsewhere than in the Senate, with respect to the events occur-
ring at the Subcommittee hearing at which the Pentagon Papers were intro-
duced into the public record. The court stated: ".../T/o us this claim is
incontrovertible." (At p. 615.)

6. The court further noted that:

The Speech or Debate Clause was designated to assure
a co-equal branch of the government wide freedom of
speech, debate, and deliberation without intimidation
or threats from the Executive Branch. It thus protects
Members against prosecutions that directly impinge
upon or threaten the legislative process. We have no
doubt that Senator Gravel may not be made to answer--
either in terms of questions or in terms of defending
himself from prosecution--for the events that occurred
at the subcommittee meeting. (At p. 616.)

7. From the above, together with the positive phrasing of Article 1,
§ 6 of the Constitution, it would appear that any Member may make any state-
ment he desires on the floor of the Congress or in one of its committees. Such
statement shall be absolutely privileged, notwithstanding that it was based
on information secured from classified Central Intelligence Agency material
either furnished the Member in confidence or containing any restrictive
notice as to use or dissemination. This privilege would operate if the Member
were to read the information verbatim into the record on the floor or into
the record of hearings before a congressional committee. It would still be
privileged when it appeared, verbatim, in the Congressional Record or in
the published hearings of a congressional committee. The only sanction,
apart from the individual conscience and sense of responsibility of the Member,
would have to come from Congress itself, which has the power to discipline
any Representative or Senator who improperly disclosed classified information.

8. One additional wrinkle might be noted. Although Congressmen
would be immune from liability for introducing classified information into
a committee report and immune from liability for ordering it printed and
disseminated to the public at large, the Public Printer and the Superintendent
of Documents may not be immune from suit for printing and disseminating
such reports to the public. The court examined this question in Doe v.
McMillan, 412 U.S. 306 (1973), a case in which petitioners claimed that a
report issued by the House Committee on the District of Columbia, containing

NW 88296 Docid:32989532 Page 8

documents relating to disciplinary problems of certain specifically named
students, violated statutory, constitutional and common-law rights to pri-
vacy. The Supreme Court refused to determine whether dissemination to
the public would serve the important legislative function of informing the
public concerning matters pending before Congress for the purpose of
holding Members of Congress liable. However, it remanded the case to
the Court of Appeals, in part to undertake just such a review in order to
determine whether the Public Printer and the Superintendent of Documents,
who were without blanket immunity, could be held liable.

9. The discussion thus far has dealt only with congressional immunity
for releasing classified information in Congress. No such immunity exists
in the case of disclosures made by congressmen outside of Congress. Thus,
in Long v. Ansel, 69 F.2d 386 (Ct. App., D.C. 1934), affd. 293 U.S. 76
(1934), and in McGovern v. Martz, 182 F. Supp. 343 (US Dist. Ct., D.C.
1960) it was held that if a Senator or Representative is alleged to have com-
mitted libel by republishing and disseminating remarks made in the Congress,
such republication and dissemination is not within the Speech or Debate
privilege even if such privilege would have been applicable to the original
publication of the remarks. Again, in Gravel v. United States, 408 U.S. 606
(1972), and in Doe v. McMillan, 412 U.S. 306 (1973) the court noted that
the Speech or Debate Clause does not protect "a private republication of
documents introduced and made public at a committee hearing, although the
hearing was unquestionably part of the legislative process."

10. From the above it is apparent that a Member is not privileged to
circulate CIA documents to his constituents, to the press, or by reading to
a meeting or on radio or television. Such action could well make the member
liable for prosecution under the espionage laws, but in any event would
expose him to the same liability for these actions as any other citizen. As
a practical matter, however, the prosecution of a Member for unauthorized
disclosure of classified CIA material, or disciplinary action by Congress
itself, is very unlikely.

EDMUND COHEN
Office of General Counsel

NW 88296 Docid:32989532 Page 9

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY 1962 EDITION
GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27
5010-106
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum
TO : Mr. J. B. Adams DATE: May 2, 1975
FROM : Legal Counsel
SUBJECT: SENSTUDY 75

The April 29, 1975, Congressional Record - Senate,
pages S 7054 through and including S 7056, sets forth rules
and procedures for the captioned Committee. The rules cover
such topics as the convening of meetings, meeting procedures,
news media coverage, investigations, subpoenas, procedures
related to the taking of testimony, procedures for handling
classified or sensitive material, preparation for committee
meetings, staff, and reporting of measures or recommendations.

The key sections of these rules are subpoenas, investi-
gations, and procedures related to taking of testimony.

Concerning the issue of subpoenas, subpoenas may be
issued by the Chairman or any other member designated by him
with the consultation of the Vice Chairman.

Procedures relating to the taking of testimony provide
that testimony shall be given under oath or affirmation. It
also provides that a witness may be accompanied by counsel.
Witnesses may also request that there be no news media coverage
of their testimony. Witnesses will also be given the opportunity
of furnishing a statement prior to, and/or at the conclusion of
his or her testimony. With regard to inspection and correction
of testimony, witnesses will be allowed a reasonable opportunity
to inspect their testimony, and corrections are permissible, but
must be made in writing within five days of the availability of
the transcript containing their testimony. Names of witnesses
cannot be made public prior to their testimony unless authorized
by the Chairman.

Contempt procedures as set forth, require that after
notice to all members of the Committee, and the affected person
has had the opportunity to state in writing or in person why he
Assoc. Dir.
Dep. AD Adm.
Dep. AD Inv.
Asst. Dir.
Admin.
Comp. Syst.
Ext. Affairs
Files & Com.
Gen. Inv.
Ident.
Inspection
Intell.
Laboratory
Plan. & Eval.
Spec. Inv.
Training
Legal Coun.
Telephone Rm.
Director Sec'y

Enclosure REC-100
62-116395-149
1 - Mr. Adams
1 - Mr. Wannall
1 - Mr. Mintz
1 - Mr. Hotis
1 - Mr. Daly
1 - Mr. Cregar
PVD:eek
ENCLOSURE
6 MAY 20 1975
84 MAY 27 1975
NW 88296 Docld:32989532 Page 10
CONTINUED - OVER)

Legal Counsel to Mr. Adams
Re: SENSTUDY 75

or she should not be held in contempt, a vote would be taken by
the Committe with a majority being necessary for the referral
of a contempt citation to the full Senate.

The rules concerning sensitive material limit access
to such material to employees on a need-to-know basis and to
only those staff members with appropriate security clearances.

Reporting procedures for the Committee provide that
where the Committee is unable to reach a unanimous decision,
separate views and reports may be printed by any member or
members of the Committee.

A complete Xerox copy of the rules as they appear in
the Record is attached.

RECOMMENDATION:

Action. For Information.

NW 88296 Docld:32989532 Page 11

S 7054
imperceptible, while 2.5 can be felt near the
point of origin and 3 can be felt over fair-
sized area. Slight damage can be caused at
4.5, a level of 6 is considered damaging, 7 is
major, and 8 is a "great earthquake."

The issue, most geologists and seismic ex-
perts agree, is not whether another block-
buster quake will occur, but when. It could
happen any time.

Should that earthquake occur "tomorrow,"
these experts believe, the following reali-
ties await Californians:

Tens of thousands of buildings built in
the first half of the century, clearly haz-
ardous under severe earthquake conditions,
in use in San Francisco and Los Angeles,
could topple, endangering thousands of lives
(an estimated 240,000 in Los Angeles alone).

Other thousands of buildings, built on or
near faults face destruction from ground
shaking and land slides.

High-rise buildings, built to more modern
standards, may not topple, but face serious
hazards of fire, disabled elevators and in-
adequate stairwell safety.

Earthquake disaster urgency plans are in
the nascent stages throughout the state,
hampered by apathy among public officials,
lack of funds and infrequent exercises.

The public is ill-prepared to cope with
earthquakes or their aftermaths. There is
virtually no publicity about what to do dur-
ing or after a major quake. Earthquake
drills are rarely, if ever, held in communi-
ties or in public buildings (schools are an
exception).

A recent federally sponsored study gives
these estimates of death and injury should
a temblor of more than 7 or 8 on the Rich-
ter scale occur in or near San Francisco or
Los Angeles:

San Francisco—as many as 10,000 persons
dead and 40,000 injured. (Should a major
dam break, the death toll could rise to
60,000.) Another 86,000 could be left home-
less (not including dam evacuees).

Los Angeles—as many as 20,000 deaths and
up to 600,000 injured. Additional deaths pos-
sible due to major dam failure—up to 14,000.
Homeless (not including dam evacuees), up
to 180,000.

At the very best, Californians are fatalistic
about earthquakes, accepting that they will
come, and hoping they will be out of the
affected area when it happens.

"You don't know when it is going to be or
how it's going to be," said one West Los An-
geles resident. "I should put money into
making my house earthquake-proof when I
could be in some skyscraper swaying when it
happens? Who cares?"

In San Francisco, a college professor re-
cently asked 125 residents in a random
sampling what they would do if an earth-
quake comes. Sixty per cent said, in effect,
"Start praying. What else is there to do?"

What can be done? In fact, quite a lot—
and some of it is being accomplished in the
areas of building code upgrading, land-use
planning, emergency preparedness, earth-
quake prediction, and public education. But
the effort of a few aggressive legislators,
state and local officials, and private citizens
is frustrated by the low level of priority
generally assigned to earthquake protection.

The "kill ratio" of past California earth-
quakes is extremely low compared to, say,
traffic accidents. About 900 persons have died
as the results of quakes since the turn of
the century compared to an average annual
highway toll of 4,800. Thus there are those
who argue against expenditures of time and
effort on something as mercurial and unpre-
dictable as an earthquake.

California's new governor, Edmund G.
Brown, Jr., is said to be one of those. Accord-
ing to a recent news story, Brown suggested
that money being allocated for safe buildings
might be used to improve the quality of edu-
cation, to rehabilitate housing for the poor,
or to create construction jobs.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 1/19/01 BY SP-2 ALM/JTG
NW 88296 Docid:32989532 Page 12
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE

After the San Fernando quake, there was
a flurry of studies, hearings, plans and legis-
lation.

In Los Angeles, the building code require-
ments were toughened. Explained Bob Wil-
liams, general manager of Los Angeles' De-
partment of Building and Safety: "We
doubled the loading strength requirements
and required standards twice as strong in re-
inforced concrete and reinforced masonry."

Los Angeles' building code is in some re-
spect tougher than the Uniform Building
Code to which most jurisdictions in the
slate adhere. One official, Long Beach build-
ing director Edward M. O'Connor, a leading
proponent of better preparedness, contends
that the Uniform Building Code falls short.

"It does not fulfill the purpose of the
code: to preserve life, limb, property and the
public welfare in the event of an earth-
quake," he said.

Changes in the uniform code come slowly.
They are modeled after recommendations
by the California Structural Engineers As-
sociation, composed of professional engineers
who help design buildings.

The recommendations usually represent
a balance of conservative and liberal strains
within the association, and, according to
some observers, are strongly influenced by
economic considerations.

The drafters of the uniform code are still
wrestling with one of the central lessons of
the San Fernando earthquake—the fact that
major buildings are being constructed with
little knowledge or consideration of soil and
geological conditions and how they might
respond to ground shocks.

Geologists and seismic experts admit they
know very little about what causes earth-
quakes or precisely how buildings are affected
by local or even distant shocks. Now, for the
first time, California is placing instruments
that measure motion in key buildings
around the state. But they must await an-
other earthquake to produce usable data.

In the meantime, seismic considerations
are working their way slowly—some say too
slowly—into building requirements.

New laws ban construction directly over
active faults, require satisfactory geologic
studies before new hospitals are built, re-
quire that a "seismic safety element" be in-
cluded in local planning, and require the
correction of unsafe dam conditions.

This legislation added up to the most pro-
gressive package of earthquake measures in
40 years, but it was not accomplished without
resistance. The restriction on building on or
near faults, for example, inspired a storm of
protest from real estate developers and in-
dividual lot owners that eventually forced
a modification softening the restriction.

A hospital law passed in 1972 requires that
detailed geological and soil reports for pro-
posed hospital construction be reviewed by
state geologists.

James Flosson, director of the state De-
partment of Mines and Geology, promptly
ran into problems.

"The reports the first few months were a
disgrace to the profession," Flosson said. "We
insisted that they be redone, and done again
until they were right. I've had my head
bloodied many times as a result. I've been
threatened, told my career would be ruined—
a few geologists tried to get me fired. But we
stood by our guns and now the quality of
the reports is excellent."

Another area of controversy is highrise
safety. Berkeley architect Karl V. Steinbrugge
believes the modern steelframe construction
will withstand intense shocks. But Henry J.
Degenkolb, a San Francisco structural en-
gineer and frequent critic of safety standards,
said:

"I would not find it unreasonable to ex-
pect... there will be 15 to 30 total collapses
with another 50 to 100 severely damaged" in
San Francisco.

While there is disagreement about high-

April 29, 1975

rise collapse, there is a broad consensus that
most existing high rises are vulnerable to ex-
tensive internal damage from unbolted
equipment and, most significantly, from fire.

The dangers are serious enough to have
prompted major changes recently in fire reg-
ulations for all future buildings.

All future high rises (above 75 feet) will be
built with automatic governors that bring
elevators instantly to ground level, and, most
importantly, with sprinkler systems at every
level.

All but a minuscule number of the nearly
2,000 high rises presently in Los Angeles and
San Francisco lack sprinkler systems.

Requirements that they be installed were
written into a state law last year, but efforts
to draft regulations ran into fierce opposition
from builders, the Chambers of Commerce
and other businessmen.

The battle is still being fought.

San Francisco's disaster plan is advanced
over those of other municipalities, but it sui-
fers from lack of a central communications
network, insufficient coordination among de-
partments and inadequate practical exer-
cises, according to a city planning depart-
ment study.

"All it is is a paper organization," said
Alfred Goldberg, head of the city's building
department.

Goldberg's concerns are echoed by James
Haigwood, state emergency services officer in
charge of helping to create state-level dis-
aster plan for Southern California.

Commented Haigwood: "I don't think most
elected and appointed officials understand
they have a real responsibility to have their
jurisdictions prepared. They are only doing a
barebones job."

RULES OF PROCEDURE FOR THE
SELECT COMMITTEE TO STUDY
GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS
WITH RESPECT TO INTELLI-
GENCE ACTIVITIES

Mr. CHURCH. Mr. President, in ac-
cordance with the provisions of the Leg-
islative Reorganization Act of 1970, I
submit now for publication in the RECORD
the rules of procedure for the Select
Committee To Study Governmental
Operations With Respect to Intelligence
Activities. These rules were adopted by
the members of the Select Committee
on April 9, 1975. I ask unanimous con-
sent that they be printed in the RECORD.

There being no objection, the rules
were ordered to be printed in the RECORD,
as follows:

RULES OF PROCEDURE FOR THE SELECT COM-
MITTEE TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERA-
TIONS WITH RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE
ACTIVITIES, U.S. SENATE, ADOPTED APRIL 9,
1975

These Rules are issued pursuant to the
1st Section of Senate Resolution 21, 94th
Congress, 1st Session, agreed to January 27,
1975, and printed in full in the appendix
hereto.

RULE 1. CONVENING OF MEETINGS

1.1 The Committee may schedule a re-
gular day and hour for the Committee to
meet.

1.2 The Chairman shall have authority,
upon proper notice, to call such additional
meetings of the Committee as he may deem
necessary and may delegate such authority
to any other member of the Committee.

1.3 A special meeting of the Committee
may be called at any time upon the written
request of six or more members of the Com-
mittee filed with the Clerk of the Committee.

1.4 In the case of any meeting of the
Committee, other than a regularly sched-
uled meeting, the Clerk of the Committee

NW 88296 Docid:32989532 Page 12

April 29, 1975
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
shall notify every member of the Committee
of the time and place of the meeting and
shall give reasonable notice which, except
in extraordinary circumstances, shall be at
least 24 hours in advance of any meeting
held in Washington, D.C. and at least 48
hours in the case of any meeting held out-
side Washington, D.C.
1.5 If a majority of the members of the
Committee have made a request in writing
to the Chairman to call a meeting of the
Committee and the Chairman falls to call
such a meeting within seven calendar days
thereafter, including the day on which the
written notice is submitted, such majority
may call a meeting by filing a written notice
with the Clerk of the Committee who shall
promptly notify each member of the Com-
mittee in writing of the date and time of
the meeting.
RULE 2. MEETING PROCEDURES
2.1 Meetings of the Committee shall be
open to the public except when otherwise
directed by the Chairman or majority vote of
members present.
2.2 It shall be the duty of the staff di-
rector to keep or cause to be kept a record
of all Committee proceedings.
2.3 The Chairman of the Committee, or
if the Chairman is not present the Vice
Chairman, shall preside over all meetings of
the Committee. In the absence of the Chair-
man and the Vice Chairman at any meeting
majority member is present the ranking mi-
nority member present, shall preside.
2.4 Except as otherwise provided in these
Rules, decisions of the Committee shall be
by majority vote of the members present
and voting. A quorum for the transaction
of Committee business, including the con-
duct of Executive sessions, shall consist of
six Committee members except, that for the
purpose of hearing witnesses, taking sworn
testimony, and receiving evidence under
oath, a quorum may consist of one Senator.
2.5 A vote by any member of the Com-
mittee with respect to any measure or mat-
ter being considered by the Committee may
be cast by proxy if the proxy authorization
(1) is in writing to the Chairman or Vice
Chairman; (2) designates the member of
the Committee who is to exercise the proxy;
and (3) is limited to a specific measure or
matter and any amendments pertaining
thereto. Proxies shall not be considered for
the establishment of a quorum.
RULE 3. BROADCASTING, TILEVISION, AND
PHOTOGRAPHY
Any Committee meeting which is open to
the public may, subject to Rule 6.7, be cov-
ered, in whole or in part, by television, radio,
still photography or other media coverage,
if the Chairman authorizes such coverage.
When coverage by any such media is auth-
orized it must be conducted in an orderly
and unobtrusive manner, and the Chairman
may for good cause terminate such media
coverage in whole or in part, or take such
other action as the circumstances may war-
rant.
RULE 4. INVESTIGATIONS
No investigation shall be initiated by the
Committee unless a majority of the mem-
bers of the Committee has specifically au-
thorized such investigation, but any member
of the Committee shall be entitled to pursue
any inquiry Individually unless specifically
prohibited by a majority vote of the mem-
bers of the Committee. Authorized investi-
gations or Inquiries may be conducted by
members of the Committee and or by desig-.
nated staff members.
RULE 5. SUBPOENAS
Subpoenas for attendance of witnesses or
the production of memoranda, documents,
records, or any other material may be issued
by the Chairman, or any other member
designated by him after consultation with
the Vice Chairman, and may be served by
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
any person designated by the Chairman or
member. Each subpoena shall contain a copy
of Senate Resolution 21, 94th Congress, 1st
Session.
RULE 6. PROCEDURES RELATED TO THE TAKING
OF TESTIMONY
6.1 Notice. Witnesses required to appear
before the Committee shall be given reason-
able notice and all witnesses shall be fur-
nished a copy of these Rules.
6.2 Outh or Affirmation. Testimony of
witnesses shall be given under oath or af-
firmation which may be administered by any
member of the Committee.
6.3 Interrogation.-Committee interroga-
tion shall be conducted by members of the
Committee and such staff personnel as is
authorized by the Chairman, the Vice Chair-
man, or the presiding member.
6.4 Counsel for the Witness(a) Any
witness may be accompanied by counsel. A
witness who is unable to obtain counsel may