124-90137-10467, [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]
JFK Assassination System Date: 4/17/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90137-10467
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: CR 105-89457-9

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: PAPICH
TO: LALLIER

TITLE:

DATE: 06/26/1961

PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS:
CIA LIAISON MATERIAL
JORGE BELIARD

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Confidential
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO

HW 50953 DocId:32337701 Page 1

Tolson
Belmont
Mohr
Callahan
Conrad
DeLoach
Evans
Malone
Rosen
Sullivan
Tavel
Trotter
Tele. Room
Ingram
Gandy

DATE: June 26, 1961

MEMORANDUM

TO: Mr. L'Allier
FROM: S. J. Papich
SUBJECT: JORGE BELIARD

The captioned individual is a station manager of the Cubana Airlines, Idlewild International Airport, New York City.
Recently Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) submitted a name check request concerning [Beliard]. Liaison was requested to determine the purpose of this request.

On June 23, 1961, Mrs. Jane Roman, CIA, advised the Liaison Agent that a Cuban source had suggested to CIA that [Beliard] possibly could be of some use to the Agency in connection with its operations in Cuba. Mrs. Roman stated that essentially CIA's interest would be to obtain assistance from [Beliard] in arranging courier routes between Cuba and the United States. CIA is of the opinion that [Beliard], through his contacts in the Cubana Airlines and because of his possible association with individuals who travel regularly between the two countries, could arrange for CIA to communicate with clandestine sources inside Cuba. The Liaison Agent requested CIA not to establish any contact with [Beliard] pending further word from the Bureau.

ACTION:

The above information is being directed to the attention of the Nationalities Intelligence Section for appropriate review.
We can either (1) inform CIA that no contact whatsoever should be made by CIA with [Beliard] in view of current Bureau operational interest, or (2) we can permit CIA to maintain contact with [Beliard] for exploration of its interests as described above, or (3) we can talk to [Beliard] concerning the potential for establishing courier routes and serve as the intermediary if [Beliard] is in a position to be of assistance in this regard. Replies to CIA should be handled via Liaison.

SJP:

Mr. Donahoe
Mr. Dunn
Liaison
Mr. Papich

HW 50953 DocId:32337701 Page 2
