124-10212-10337 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System ~ Date: 5/1/2015
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10212-10337
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-401762-2ND NR 35

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: CIA
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 02/02/1960
PAGES: 5
SUBJECTS: RCF, SHF, EMP, BKG, TRA, CP ACT, ADMIN, INSTR
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/21/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA, INDEFINITE
COMMENTS: INC MEMO

NW 50953 DocId: 32294061 Page 1

Liaison Section
Mr. Floyd

100-339235
100-401762
Date: February 11, 1960

Director
Central Intelligence Agency
Attention: Deputy Director, Plans

Reference is made to your letter dated February 2, 1960, concerning the captioned individuals, your file CSCI-3/758,444.

Provided the following change is made, dissemination of the data set out on page two of referenced memorandum to the Swiss Federal Police will not interfere with the intelligence and investigative responsibilities of this Bureau. The last sentence on page two of the memorandum should be changed to read as follows:

"He is known to have received Communist literature, is believed to have made financial contributions to the Communist Party in the US, and there is information to indicate Communist Party membership on his part as late as 1957."

This matter has been referred to the Legal Attaches in London, Paris, and Tokyo to alert appropriate security services concerning possible travel of the Franks in England, France and Japan.

New York (100-42479) (100-107383) (Enclosure)
London (Enclosures - 3) See note Legats, London, Paris,
Paris (Enclosures - 3) Tokyo, and SAC, New York, page
Tokyo (Enclosures - 3)

Foreign Liaison Unit (Route through for review)

NOTE ON YELLOW, PAGE 3.

NW 50953 DocId: 32294061 Page 2

It would be appreciated if your Agency would furnish this Bureau any pertinent information received concerning possible travel of the subjects to Communist China and concerning their presence in China. Should your agency receive information that subjects plan to travel in England, France, or Japan, it would be appreciated if you would advise the appropriate Legal Attache in London, England, Paris, France, or Tokyo, Japan.

A Photostat of referenced Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) memorandum is enclosed for all. It is possible that Paris may receive inquiries regarding the subjects through Swiss sources. In referenced memorandum CIA did not identify its official Swiss source. This identification subsequently given to Bureau via Liaison. The Bureau approved CIA's furnishing this information to the Swiss Federal Police inasmuch as CIA had conducted active investigation regarding subjects in Switzerland.

Also enclosed for each Legal Attache are one copy of a memorandum dated 11-26-58 concerning Richard Cyril Frank and one copy of a memorandum dated 1-26-60 concerning Susan Heiligman Frank. In view of reported plans of subjects to travel in England and France, and since it is anticipated that they may travel in the vicinity of Japan prior to their return to this country, the Legal Attaches at London, Paris, and Tokyo should alert sources in England, France, and Japan concerning the Franks contemplated travel in Europe and their possible plans to travel in China. [Background information concerning the subjects set forth on page two of enclosed letter, as corrected in paragraph two of this letter] be made available to your sources if deemed advisable. For your additional information, both subjects are on the Security Index.

New York remain alert in this matter and submit any information received concerning the subjects in a form suitable for dissemination. If not already done, New York submit FD-122's tabbed "Out of the country".

NW 50953 DocId: 32294061 Page 3

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

2 FEB 1960

TO: Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Attention: Mr. S. J. Papich

FROM: Deputy Director (Plans)

SUBJECT: Susan and Richard Frank

1. In response to your 22 December communication (File No: 100-339235, 100-401762) we wish to inform you that we have received the following from an official Swiss source:

"Richard Frank (born 1922), U.S. citizen, film technician, resident of New York, arrived at the Hotel Savoy in Bern with his wife Susan on 10 December 1959; they stayed there until 12 December leaving for Zurich. Frank inquired for a flight ticket to Prague from Zurich. While in Bern, Frank had contact with the Chinese Communist Embassy on two occasions; he or Mrs. Frank having called at the Embassy. No information is available on the nature of these contacts, nor do we have more detailed personalia."

2. We have observed that persons desiring to travel to Communist China from Switzerland frequently fly via Prague.

3. The following summary has been drawn from material which you have provided us on Subjects (see NY 100-42479, NY 100-107383 and Bureau 100-339235). Please advise if we may pass this summary to our Swiss source, but without revealing that your organization supplied the information contained in it:

(S) ["Swiss Source" is Swiss Federal Police]

NW 50953 DocId: 32294061 Page 4
