124-10300-10012 [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

JFK Assassination System Date: 6/5/2015
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10300-10012

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-147458-52

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, MM
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 07/14/1967
PAGES: 8

SUBJECTS:
MR, LORIE, JORGE RAUL ROBLEJO, RES, POLIT ACT, TRA,
ASSOC, POLIT PRISONERS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: INC LHM

NW 50953 DocId:32309646 Page 1

---

SECRET

FBI

DATE: 7-14-67

Transmit the following INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT FOR THE BRACKETS ON

AIRTEL

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (105-147458)

FROM: SAC, MIAMI (105-9977)

SUBJECT: COMITE PRO-LIBERACION DE LOS CIEN
(CPLLC - COMMITTEE FOR THE LIBERATION
OF THE ONE HUNDRED)
IS - CUBA

Re Miami airtels 7-10-67, captioned "JORGE
RAUL ROBLEJO LORIE, IS - CUBA" and "SERGIO OSWALDO
BETANCOURT COLLAZO, aka - PSI, IS - CUBA".

Enclosed herewith for the Bureau are 14 copies
of a LHM dated and captioned as above. Extra copies
of this LHM are being furnished for transmittal to all
Legats, Ottawa (2) and Mexico City (1).

It is to be noted limited dissemination has
been made concerning this matter and the enclosed LHM
due to the sensitivity of the information concerning the
Bureau.

(1-Legat, Mexico City 105-4967)
(1-Legat Ottawa 105-3083)
1-New York (info) (105-77103) (Enc. 1) (RM)
1-San Juan (info) (105-9215) (Enc. 1) (RM)
1-Washington Field (info) (105-69372) (Enc. 1) (RM)
3-Miami

[134-1433-Sub-A] for review at FBIHQ by

NW 50953 DocId:32309646 Page 2

---

MM 105-9977

SECRET

possibility of ROBLEJO being involved in possible intelligence
activities.

The FBI does not actually utilize Building T90
or T94 to conduct interviews of Cuban refugees. However,
CIA under the guise of U. S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service interviewers interrogate these arrivals at this
location. A supply of the FBI "aviso" and the Director's
message to newly arrived Cubans are distributed at this
location.

It is to be recalled previous investigation has
disclosed ROBLEJO has been in contact with REINALDO ABREU, [S]
Attache at the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City and connected
with Cuban Intelligence [S].

Also on June 29, 1967, MM 1115-S reported LUIS
RICARDO ALONSO, former Cuban Ambassador to London, who
defected in 1965, has been in correspondence with ABREU [S]
having been introduced to him by RAUL ROA, Cuban Minister
of Foreign Relations, in 1964. ABREU reportedly is in charge
of dealing with Cuban exile groups and Cuban guerrilla groups
and more specifically, has been in contact with ROBLEJO [S]
since he ABREU is handling the matter of Cuban political
prisoners. In addition, ABREU, since he is unable to travel [S]
to Miami, has requested ALONSO to come to Mexico or to the [S]
Cuban Mission to the United Nations in New York City in [S]
connection with this matter [S].

MM T-1 is SERGIO OSWALDO BETANCOURT COLLAZO.

The enclosed LHM is classified SECRET to protect
the identity of a potential informant of continuing value.

In the event the Bureau decides that the enclosed
LHM may be disseminated, a copy of this LHM may be furnished
to the RCMP inasmuch as it does not contain any information

NW 50953 DocId:32309646 Page 3
SECRET
