124-10296-10130 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |
JFK Assassination System Date: 5/27/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10296-10130
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 163-1504-7

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI
TO: DIRECTOR, CIA
TITLE:

DATE: 03/23/1970
PAGES: 3

SUBJECTS:
WHJ, ASSOC, RCK, IDENT, BKG, AKA, MIL SERV, EMP

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: INC MEMO

v9.1 3
NW 50953 DocId:32308802 Page 1

---

EX 106
(RI) 163-1504
REC-35
SECRET

Mr. Michela
Date: March 23, 1970
To: Director, Central Intelligence Agency
From: John Edgar Hoover, Director
Subject: GEORGE HOOVER PRATT
INTERNAL SECURITY - LAOS
INFORMATION CONCERNING RACIAL MATTERS

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT FOR
CLASSIFIED INFORMATION
WHERE SHOWN
BY COURIER SVC.

Attention: Deputy Director for Plans

Tolson
DeLoach
Walters
Mohr
Bishop
Casper
Callahan
Conrad
Felt
Gale
Rosen
Sullivan
Tavel
Soyars
Tele. Room
Holmes
Gandy

BRACKETS ON pg.
KP 10-10-97
1-17-98
CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD /KSP
DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

Reference is made to your request dated March 10, 1970 and to my letter dated November 21, 1969, concerning captioned individual, your file B-956.

There is enclosed one copy each of the fingerprint cards of captioned individual and James Warren Smedley, who may be identical with the James Warren Smedley mentioned in your request of March 10, 1970.

It is noted that you were furnished two copies of the Federal Bureau of Investigation Identification Record concerning George Hoover Pratt, by my letter dated November 21, 1969. A review of the files of this Bureau disclosed no Identification Record identifiable with James Warren Smedley or William Herman Jackson, also known as Jack Karl Lawhorn, who were also mentioned in your request of March 10, 1970.

JCM: djw/ekw

SEND MEVDING LON
15268
60APR 1370
MAIL ROOM
NW 50953 DocId:32308802
TELETYPE UNIT
Page 2
2
10/27/77 JTM/ma
SEE NOTE PAGE TWO HSCA re William H. Jackson
STRE
was
See Bufile 801-/2/8-16
19:10/20/77
Jim
wiss

---

Director
Central Intelligence Agency
SECRET

While no Identification Record concerning James Warren Smedley was located, the enclosed fingerprint cards concerning Smedley and Pratt may be of assistance to you in making record checks through official Thai sources.
The enclosed fingerprint cards and the copies of the Identification Record which were furnished to you by my letter dated November 21, 1969, may be utilized by you in checking [official Thai] sources concerning the individuals mentioned above. In making such checks, you must insure that the [Thai officials] clearly understand that it is your Agency which is making the record checks and that such checks are not in any way being made for this Bureau.

Enclosures - 2

NOTE:
Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) previously checked the names of Pratt, Jackson, and Smedley through Bureau files. CIA has advised that Pratt had reportedly attempted to get people out of Vietnam into Laos where these people could be trained and shipped to the United States to assist in the "Black Movement." By memorandum dated 3/10/70, CIA furnished additional identifying information concerning Jackson and Smedley and requested copies of fingerprint records. CIA requested to be advised if those records could be provided to [official Thai] sources in order to facilitate checking certain Thai records which would otherwise be unavailable.

NW 50953 DocId:32308802 Page 3

---

Read van
Con 3011-70
SUBJECT: George Hoover PRATT
Reference:
A. Our memorandum of 11 February 1970, Subject as above.
B. Your letter dated 21 November 1969, Subject: George Hoover PRATT, Internal Security - Laos, Racial Matters.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD
B-956
10 MAR 1970

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT FOR

KP 10-10-97 SUD/KSR 1-17-98 (JFK)

1. [Our representative in Vientiane, Laos] has provided the following additional information concerning Herman JACKSON and King SMEDLEY mentioned in paragraph 1A of reference A:

a. Herman JACKSON is believed to be identical with William Herman JACKSON, also known as Jack Karl Lawhorn, who was born on 24 November 1926 in Dothan, Alabama. JACKSON is a retired United States Army Master Sergeant who now owns Jack's American Star Bar in Bangkok, Thailand. He carries United States passport number 2539419.

b. King SMEDLEY is believed to be identical with James Warren SMEDLEY, negro male born on 3 October 1922 at Roanoke, Virginia. SMEDLEY served in the United States Air Force. He carries United States passport 2424089.

2. Please provide us with copies of the fingerprint records of Subject and William Herman JACKSON.
Please advise us if we may provide these records to [official Thai] sources in order to facilitate checking certain Thai records that would otherwise not be available.

REC-35
EX. - 106
VIETNAM FOREIGN
PLEASE TRANSHIT REPLY VIA LANGON, MV. S. J. PARKED 163-15-04-7
MAR 24 1970
Read
3/8/170
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD
SECRET
NW 50953 DocId:32308802 Page 4
