124-90110-10071

v9.1

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90110-10071
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-114623-6
ORIGINATOR:
FROM: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
TO: CIA
TITLE:
DATE: 03/29/1963
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS: FRANC PECAR
JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/06/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: MEMO

Date: 6/2/2015
NW 50953 DocId: 32334078 Page 1

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
29 MAR 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Attention: Mr. S. J. Papich
SUBJECT: Franc PECAR

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT, EXCEPT BRACKETS

KP 5-26-98
SLD/KSR
5-30-98

1. Reference is made to our memorandum number CSCI-3/773,057, subject as above, dated 10 October 1962.

2. Joseph MEROLA, 2018 North Bay Road, Miami Beach, Florida, has advised representatives of another office of this Agency that he learned from contacts in New York that (fnu) PECAR, a Yugoslav trade official in the U. S., is being recalled to Yugoslavia and wishes to remain in the U. S. According to MEROLA, PECAR will visit Miami from 12 to 19 April 1963.

3. While MEROLA has an unsavory background, the representative who spoke with him is inclined to believe that he was telling the truth in this instance. MEROLA claimed that he has also informed the U. S. District Attorney of the above development.

4. It seems probable that (fnu) PECAR is identical with the subject of referenced memorandum, who was assigned to New York in late 1962 as an INTERTRADE representative.

5. We would appreciate receiving any information available to your Bureau concerning PECAR's alleged desire to remain in the U. S.

6. If the above information is true, this Agency may wish to consider the desirability of contacting PECAR in an effort to persuade him to return to Yugoslavia at our behest.

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR (PLANS):
CSCI-3/775,509
2/18/95

FBI INFO
Classified by S8 MAC/KFA
Declassify on: OADR

(FBI INFO.
DECLASSIFIED BY 566 8.Sc/dc - X
3/28/76
ON
JAMES ANGLETON

REC-74 [105-114623-6/8]

SECRET
CEP 1

APR 5 1963
NATE SEC.

NW 50953 DocId: 32334078 Page 2
