i24-90137-10284 [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

JFK Assassination System Date: 4/21/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90137-10284

RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: CR 105-78890-27

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: PAPICH
TO: BRENNAN

TITLE:

DATE: 07/05/1963

PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS:
CIA LIAISON MATERIAL
LEVI LAUB

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

HW 50953 DocId:32337518 Page 1

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

SECRET

TO: D. J. BRENNAN DATE: July 5, 1963

FROM: S. J. PAPICH

SUBJECT: LEVI LAUB
UNAUTHORIZED TRAVEL TO CUBA

Reference is made to Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) letter dated April 18, 1963, captioned "U. S. Nationals in Cuba." The Liaison Agent was instructed to obtain more specific information concerning subject's reported travel to Cuba. The following was furnished to the Liaison Agent on July 3, 1963, by A. P. Flynn, CIA:

Information received by CIA indicated that the subject was in Cuba during the period February 22-March 11, 1963. CIA received this information from [the British Intelligence Service (MI-6). The British obtained the data from Gavin Young, a British newspaperman who was in Cuba during the same period described above. MI-6 has advised CIA that Young is currently traveling to San Francisco.

British MI-6 representative in Washington, D.C., plans to contact Young and work out arrangements whereby Young can be made available to the Bureau for interview.

ACTION:

The above information is being directed to the attention of the Subversive Control Section.

105-78890

1 - Mr. Bland
1 - Mr. Haack
1 - Liaison
1 - Mr. Papich

SJP:gp

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT, EXCEPT FOR THE BRACKETS

REC- 69

JUL 9 1963

CLASSIFIED BY SLDKSR
DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

HW 50953 DocId:32337518 Page 2
