(124-10279-10107)
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System Date: 6/5/2015
Identification Form

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10279-10107
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-180256-194

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: CIA
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 12/14/1973
PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS: MR, SERRANO, ORLANDO, TELCAL, USA, CUBAN EMBASSY, MEXICO CITY, CUBAN SPANISH
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/05/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: v9.1 10
NW 50953 DocId: 32301772 Page 1

NW 50953 DocId: 32301772 Page 2

FTB003 4:01AM 12-14-73 JPS
ESC107
RR ESV
DE ESC #4304 3480730
ZNY SSSSS
R132224Z DEC 73
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION
DEC 14 1973
TELETYPE
SECRET
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT BRAGILETS
KP 7-6-98

FM CIA
TO FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION DATE 8/23/94 BY SPEMAGE
JRAY
BT
SECRET CITE CIA 491076.
ATTN: INTELLIGENCE DIVISION
SUBJECT: TELEPHONE TAPS ON CALLS INITIATED IN USA TO CUBAN
INTELLIGENCE OFFICER MEXICO CITY, Mexico
1973
ON 12 AND 15 NOVEMBER 1973 AN INDIVIDUAL WHO IDENTIFIED
HIMSELF AS "ORLANDO SERRANO" MADE TELEPHONE CALLS FROM THE
USA TO THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN MEXICO CITY. HE USED DOUBLE-TALK,
SPOKE SPANISH WITH CUBAN VICE CONSUL JUANE SENAT CAMPS
(IDENTIFIED CUIS OFFICER), AND REFERRED TO HIS (THE CALLER'S)
RELATIONSHIP WITH MANUEL RODRIGUEZ SEOANE IN 1964 AND
TO MICKEY WHOM HE HAD CONTACTED PREVIOUSLY PRESUMABLY IN MEXICO.
RODRIGUEZ IS A CUIS OFFICER AND MICKEY IS THE PSEUDONYM OF
ENRIQUE CICARD LABRADA WHO WAS STATIONED IN MEXICO CITY AS
CONSUL FROM 1968 UNTIL TRANSFERED TO HAVANA 1971.

ACCORDING TO A DGI DEFECTOR IN 1971, CICARD WAS THEN EITHER HEAD OF THE DGI USA
BUREAU OR THE SECTION IN CHARGE OF OPERATIONS AGAINST THE FBI.

NW 50953 DocId: 32301772 Page 2

PAGE 02 RUEAIIA 4304 SECRET
CIA...
SECRET
THERE ARE NO IDENTIFIABLE TRACES ON SERRANO. IN VIEW
OF THE CALLER'S CITED CUIS CONNECTIONS, WE BELIEVE HE IS VERY
POSSIBLY IDENTICAL WITH EMILIO ECHARTE PEDROSO, SUBJECT OF
FBI NEW YORK REPORT DATED OCTOBER 27, 1970. THAT REPORT REFERRED
TO ECHARTE'S RECRUITMENT IN CUBA BY RODRIGUEZ AND HIS DISPATCH TO
THE USA ON A MISSION TO ASSASSINATE CUBAN EXILE LEADER MANOLO R.
SAME REPORT ALSO ADVISED THAT ECHARTE CONTACTED DGI OFFICER CICARD
IN MEXICO 1968 AND CICARD DIRECTED HIM TO CULTIVATE A CIA AGENT IN
USA.

THE 12 NOVEMBER CALL WAS MADE FROM AN UNIDENTIFIED LOCATION
IN THE USA. THE 15 NOVEMBER CALL WAS MADE AT 1458 HOURS WASHINGTON
D.C. TIME FROM A PHONE BOOTH IN WASHINGTON TO THE CUBAN EMBASSY,
MEXICO CITY, TELEPHONE NUMBER 5530917. THE 12 AND 15 NOVEMBER CON-
VERSATIONS ARE SIMILAR IN CONTENT. OUR MEXICO CITY STATION RECEIVED
A TAPE RECORDING OF THE 15 NOVEMBER TELEPHONE CONVERSATION FROM THE
MEXICAN SERVICE WHICH WE ARE FORWARDING TO FBI HEADQUARTERS FOR
REVIEW. AN EXPERIENCED TRANSCRIBER EMPLOYED BY CIA STATES THAT THE
CALLER USED DEFINITE CUBAN SPANISH. THE TRANSCRIBER ALSO BELIEVES
THE CALLER IS NOT WELL EDUCATED.

NW 50953 DocId: 32301772 Page 3
SECRET

PAGE 03 RUEAIIA 4304
RET
SECRET
ON 15 NOVEMBER THE CALLER REFERRED TO HIS PREVIOUS RELATION-
SHIP WITH RODRIGUEZ AND CICARD, AND SAID THAT THE MEETING HE (THE
CALLER) WAS INVOLVED WITH "HERE" (PRESUMABLY IN THE USA) HAD BEEN
SUSPENDED UNTIL THE FIFTEENTH, THAT HE WANTED TO GO AND EXPLAIN
WHAT IS TAKING PLACE, AND THAT ENSENAT SHOULD RELAY THE INFORMATION
TO PINEIRO (PRESUMABLY MANUEL PIÑEIRO LOSADA, CHIEF OF THE
CUBAN LIBERATION DIRECTORATE) WHO IS CURRENTLY BELIEVED TO BE IN
HAVANA. ENSENAT SAID HE WOULD PASS THE MESSAGE TO THE FOREIGN
MINISTRY. THE CALLER SAID HE WOULD TELEPHONE ENSENAT AGAIN AT THE
SAME TIME ON THE FIFTEENTH.

WE ARE UNABLE TO MAKE MUCH SENSE OUT OF THE CALLS. ANY
POSSIBLE IDENTIFICATION YOUR ORGANIZATION CAN MAKE OF THE CALLER
AND HIS ACTIVITIES, BASED ON HIS CABLE AND YOUR REVIEW OF THE 15
NOVEMBER TAPE, WILL BE APPRECIATED.

6. EXEMPT FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE OF EO
11652, EXEMPTION CATEGORY 5B2. AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED ON DATE
IMPOSSIBLE TO DETERMINE.

#4304
NNNN
JDR JB
NW 50953 DocId: 32301772 Page 4
SECRET
