124-90138-10066

v9.1

**Agency Information**

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90138-10066
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 64-200-210-2325

**Document Information**

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: PAPICH
TO: FROHBOSE
TITLE: PAUL HICKMAN
DATE: 12/02/1959
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS: CIA LIAISON MATERIAL
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: MEMO

[2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]
JFK Assassination System Date: 4/16/201
Identification Form

NW 50953 DocId:32337797 Page 1

---

STANDAND FORM NO. 64

Office Memo

TO: MR. F. A. FROHBOSE

FROM: S. J. PAPICH

SUBJECT: PAUL HICKMAN
DATE: 12-2-59

The following information was furnished to the Liaison Agent on 12-1-59 by Mrs. Jane Roman, Central Intelligence Agency (CIA).

Swiss police recently located Hickman in Zurich, Switzerland. Information was developed by the Swiss indicating that subject allegedly was involved in business dealings relating to the sale of arms to the Castro Government. With the collaboration of Swiss authorities, a CIA representative interviewed subject on 11-27 and 28-59. The subject has been characterized as a confidence operator and very unreliable. He claimed that he already had volunteered information concerning his knowledge of activities in Cuba to "friends of Senator Smathers." Hickman claimed that he had been in contact with a Soviet Embassy representative, Bern, Switzerland, in connection with a sale of Cuban sugar to Russia. Hickman claimed that the Soviet had given him considerable encouragement and indicated that the transaction would go through. The Soviet then suddenly told him that the deal was off.

Mrs. Roman stated that CIA does not plan to cover subject's activities in the absence of a specific request from the Bureau.

ACTION: This information is being directed to the attention of the Nationalities Intelligence Section.

SJP/nmn

Distribution:

Mr. Donahoe
Mr. James
Liaison
Mr. Papich

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED (JFK)

CIA is declassifying Conform letter 5668 SUB IS SECRET

Classified by 1803 w/c
Declassify on NARA 2/13/26

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN 64-200-210-2325

XEROXED ORIGINAL RETAIN

FOR REVIEW AT FBIHO AND/OR DELIVERY TO HSCA RE REQUEST DAED (SEE BUFILE 62-117290).

NW 50953 DocId:32337797 Page 2
