2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Date: 4/17/201
Identification Form

124-90137-10468

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90137-10468
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-89457-9

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: HQ
TO: NY
TITLE:
DATE: 06/30/1961
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS:
CIA LIAISON MATERIAL
JORGE BELIARD
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Confidential
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: AT

NW 50953 DocId: 32337702 Page 1

AIRTEL

To: SAC, New York (134-5609)
From: Director, FBI [(105-89457)-90] [NY 3186-PSI] (C)

CIA, by liaison, advised Bureau of desire to contact captioned [PSI] in connection with its Cuban operations. (C)
CIA of opinion [PSI] is in position to assist in the establishment of courier routes between U.S. and its contacts in Cuba. Contact of [PSI] by CIA being held in abeyance pending Bureau's approval. (C)

Bureau's position in this matter flexible.

We can refuse CIA authority to contact [PSI] or we can let CIA operate [PSI] on its own. We can also serve as intermediary between [the PSI] and CIA. (C)

Promptly contact [PSI] and discreetly ascertain if he is in position and willing to assist in establishing courier routes. Do not advise [PSI] of CIA's connection at this time. For information, CIA believes [PSI] able to establish such a system because of his employment with Cubana Airlines in New York City, and fact he is in contact with persons regularly traveling to Cuba. Furnish Bureau results of your contact with [PSI]. In event [PSI] is in position to assist in the establishment of a courier system and willing to do so, you should furnish your observations concerning [PSI]'s proposed use in this matter. (C)

NOTE: [PSI] is Station Manager of Cubana Airlines at Idlewild Airport in New York City. He has been under development by New York Office since November, and has furnished data concerning operations of Cubana Airlines and personnel employed by Cubana.

CONTINUANCE OF NOTE ON PAGE TWO

Tolson
Belmont
Mohr
Callahan
Conrad
DeLoach
Evans
Malone
Rosen
Sullivan
Tavel
Trotter
Tele. Room

Ingram
Gandy

MAIL ROOM
TELETYPE UNIT

NW 50953 DocId: 32337702 Page 2

CONTINUANCE OF NOTE:

[He] has made available copies of incoming and outgoing manifests of Cubana flights between New York and Havana. New York has pointed out that [PSI] has not furnished data of unusual value, but because of his position, has a good potential. CIA advised Liaison Agent Papich it would not contact [PSI] until it had received authority to do so from Bureau. Before allowing CIA to make contact with [PSI] it is believed it would be best for our interests to determine if [PSI] can actually assist CIA. If he is in position to assist that Agency, we will then consider what stand to take in this matter. (C)

NW 50953 DocId: 32337702 Page 3
