124-10320-10087 [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

JFK Assassination System
Date: 4/10/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10320-10087
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: 100-409763-79

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: BR
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: 05/13/1964
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS: MARK LANE
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; 1B; 1C; 4
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/04/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS:

v9.1
HW 50953 DocId: 32311770 Page 1

---

5-126 (9-19-62)

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVER

Memorandum

TO : Director, FBI (100-409763) DATE: 5/13/64
FROM : Legat, Bern
SUBJECT: MARK LANE RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

Re Bulet 4/20/64.

Security information furnished by referenced communication was disseminated to the indicated sources of this office on 5/4/64:

Abteilung II - Gruppe Staatspolizei, Bundesministerium fur Inneres (Austrian Security Police), Vienna, Austria.

Security Branch, American Embassy, Vienna, Austria.

U. S. Consulate General, Vienna, Austria.

Schweizerisches Bundespolizei (Swiss Federal Police), Bern, Switzerland.

Other: Research Branch [covert CIA] American Embassy, Vienna.

Data furnished to the U. S. sources was classified Confidential
Material furnished to the foreign sources will be handled as Confidential under existing security agreements.

Appropriate notations are maintained in the files of the indicated sources to insure that this office will be notified in the event subject comes to their attention.

Bureau
Liaison

REC-49
6 MAY 18 1964

HW 50953 DocId: 32311770 Page 2
