2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 4/9/2015
Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10326-10099
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: 62-99724-8

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: KEAY
TO: BELMONT
TITLE:
DATE: 03/09/1954
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS: BUREAU SOURCE 100 (ANGLETON)
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/17/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS:

HW 50953 DocId: 32313171 Page 1

STANDARD FORM NO. 64
Office Memorandum * UNITED GOVERNMENT

TO: Tolson, Ladd, Nichols, Belmont, Clegg, Glavin, Harbo, Rosea, Tracy, Mohr, Trotter, Holloman, Miss Gandy
FROM: Keay
SUBJECT: JAMES ANGLETON, CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
DATE: March 9, 1954

As you know, the captioned individual has been providing the Bureau with considerable information, much of it being of a very sensitive nature. It has been noted that in transmitting communications to Angleton some memoranda have been sent to the Director of CIA, Attention: James Angleton, in care of E. F. Hall. (S)

Other memoranda dealing with Israeli Intelligence matters have been directed to James Angleton, in care of E. F. Hall. (S)

In order that the Bureau would have a uniform procedure in transmitting mail to Angleton, the Liaison Agent discussed the matter with Angleton on March 5, 1954. Angleton requested that in the future mail being directed to him be transmitted to the Director of CIA, "Attention: James Angleton." Angleton stated that the above request was being made with the approval of Allen Dulles, the Director of CIA. He further indicated that he desired the above method of designation in connection with correspondence dealing with Israeli Intelligence matters. With regard to Bureau reports concerning Israeli matters, Angleton advised that such (S) material is being retained under his personal supervision and control. (S)

Angleton also asked when the Bureau found it necessary to disseminate information to him and other agencies, that his identity not be revealed to the other agencies. He explained that he is involved in several sensitive projects, such as Israeli Intelligence, and if his identity were known to the other agencies, the security of CIA operations could be prejudiced. (S)

ACTION:

Attached hereto for your approval is a Memorandum to all Section Chiefs.

SJP:lw

Attachment

1 - Mr. Wannall
Reading Room

RECORDED - 36
60 MAR 19 1954 SECRET

HW 50953 DocId: 32313171 Page 2
