124-90084-10077 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90084-10077
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-12-209-727

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
FROM: CIA
TO:
TITLE: CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC REGIONAL SEMINAR FOR CENTRAL AMERICAN
SUBJECTS: LAUREANO BATISTA FALLA
DATE: 10/06/1971
PAGES: 3
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/14/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: CABLEGRAM

v9.1
HW 50953 DocId:32329096 Page 1

--- Page 2 ---

Intelligence Information Report
ROUTINE
IN 436533
PAGE 1 OF 3 PAGES
STATE/INR DIA NMCC/MC (SECDEF JCS ARMY NAVY AIR) CIA/NMCC NIC NSA SDO ONE CRS XXX
DIRECTORATE OF PLANS

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Sees. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE
POLITICAL MATTERS
GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION CTIE TDCS -314/10539-71
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION IN THIS DOCUMENT, EXCEPT FOR THE BRACKETS
KP 10-10

COUNTRY: COSTA RICA/CENTRAL AMERICA
DOI: 19-25 SEPTEMBER 1971
SUBJECT: CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC REGIONAL SEMINAR FOR CENTRAL AMERICAN CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC LEADERS
ACQ: EL SALVADOR, SAN SALVADOR (29 SEPTEMBER 1971) FIELD NO. [HSS-2550]
SOURCE: A DEPUTY OF THE CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC PARTY IN THE NATIONAL LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY. HE IS A USUALLY RELIABLE REPORTER.
HE OBTAINED THE INFORMATION FROM A PERSON WHO ATTENDED THE SEMINAR.
ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED.
DATE 5-23-94 BY SPAMAC/EH

1.  WHILE THE 19 TO 25 SEPTEMBER 1971 SEMINAR AT ALAJUELA, COSTA RICA, FOR SENIOR REPRESENTATIVES OF THE CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC PARTIES AND MOVEMENTS OF CENTRAL AMERICA WAS ENTITLED "THE STRATEGY OF SOCIAL POWER," THE TRUE PURPOSE OF THE SEMINAR WAS TO ACCOMPLISH A VERY DETAILED ANALYSIS OF THE POLITICAL SITUATION IN EL SALVADOR, GUATEMALA, HONDURAS, NICARAGUA, PANAMA, AND COSTA RICA. TO THIS END, THE TWENTY-FOUR PARTICIPANTS IN THE SEMINAR WERE PRESENTED AT THE OUTSET WITH A VERY DETAILED

SECRET /NO FOREIGN DISSEM
(classification) (dissem controls)

HW 50953 DocId:32329096 Page 2

--- Page 3 ---

ROUTINE 90084-10077
IN 436533
TDCS-314/10539-71
OCT 13 1129 AM 1971
PAGE 2 OF 3 PAGES

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM
(classification) (dissem controls)

QUESTIONNAIRE PREPARED BY THE INSTITUTE FOR CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC FORMATION (IFEDEC) CONCERNING THE POLITICAL SITUATION IN EACH OF THE SIX CENTRAL AMERICAN COUNTRIES. LAUREANO BATISTA, THE IFEDEC REPRESENTATIVE AT THE SEMINAR, REQUESTED THAT REPRESENTATIVES FROM EACH OF THE COUNTRIES PREPARE WRITTEN REPLIES TO THE QUESTIONNAIRE.

COSTA RICAN AND NICARAGUAN REPRESENTATIVES, PARTICULARLY JORGE MONGE OF COSTA RICA, REACTED IN AN EXTREMELY NEGATIVE AND SUSPICIOUS FASHION TO THE IFEDEC QUESTIONNAIRE AND REFUSED TO PROVIDE WRITTEN ANSWERS. OTHER REPRESENTATIVES HAD LITTLE DESIRE TO PROVIDE WRITTEN ANSWERS TO THE QUESTIONNAIRE BUT GENERALLY DID NOT REACT AS STRONGLY AS DID THE COSTA RICANS AND NICARAGUANS. THOSE MOST OPPOSED TO BATISTA'S REQUEST EXPRESSED THE VIEW THAT THE QUESTIONNAIRE WAS AN IFEDEC PLOY TO OBTAIN INFORMATION CONCERNING THE SITUATION IN CENTRAL AMERICA AND THEY DUBBED THE QUESTIONNAIRE EFFORT "OPERATION CAMELOT." BATISTA EXPLAINED THAT THE INFORMATION REQUESTED WAS REQUIRED BY THE LATIN AMERICAN CENTER FOR INFORMATION (CIDAL), AN ORGANIZATION RECENTLY FOUNDED IN CARACAS BY THE AMERICAN CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC ORGANIZATION (ODCA) AND HEADED BY BATISTA.

THE SALVADORAN REPRESENTATIVES AT THE SEMINAR, AT LEAST, HAD NEVER BEFORE HEARD OF CIDAL. IT WAS FINALLY DECIDED THAT NO WRITTEN

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM
(classification) (dissem controls).

HW 50953 DocId:32329096 Page 3
