```markdown
File #:

62-116395

Serial Scope: 51 THRU 100

NW 88296 Docid:32989628 Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records
Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88296 Date: 2025

Mr. S. F. Phillips April 30, 1975

MATERIAL FOR SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE (SSC)
INVESTIGATING INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

1. TITLE/SUBJECT: Policies and Procedures of the FBI
2. ORIGINATING ORGANIZATION: FBI
3. NATURE OF MATERIAL: Letterhead memorandum with enclosures
4. DOCUMENT CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified except for one enclosure which is classified "Secret."
5. NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION STAMP: Should have
6. SUMMARY OF CONTENTS:
LUM refers to request of the SSC for a list of
names and titles of certain FBI Intelligence Division (INTD)
personnel at FBIHQ and numbers only of certain other INTD
personnel; and relates agreement reached between FBI officials
and Mr. William Miller, Staff Director of the SSC, that the
original request be modified as follows. The FBI will prepare
the necessary list and make it available for review at FBIHQ
by appropriately cleared personnel of the SSC Staff.

7. REQUESTER/DATE OF REQUEST: SSC. 3/19/75
8. RELEASING AUTHORITY: FBI
9. DATE OF SUBMISSION: 4/8/75
10. LOCATION OF FILE COPY: FBI file 62-116395-53
11. RELATION TO INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY PROBLEMS:
NONE.

Assoc. Dir.
Dep. AD Adm.
Dep. AD Inv.
Asst. Dir.:
Admin.
Comp. Syst.
Ext. Affairs
Files & Com. (4)
Gen. Inv.
Ident.
Inspection
Intell.
Laboratory
Plan. & Eval.
Spec. Inv.
Training
Legal Coun.
Telephone Rm.
Director Sec'y

SFP:ekw

NOTE: Original via liaison to Central Community Index in
connection with Senstudy 75.

MAIL ROOM
TELETYPE UNIT
GPO 954-545

(Rev. 3-21-73)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 1/19/01 BY SP-2 ALM/776

Intelligence Division
INFORMATIVE NOTE
Date 4/25/75

You were previously advised that
Douglas Durham, former MP 4115-E, who has
furnished high-level information regarding
activities of the American Indian Movement
(AIM), after being confronted by AIM lead-
ers, admitted being a confidential infor-
mant for the FBI. This information has
been made public.

Attached teletype from Omaha advises
that Assistant U. S. Attorney Keith E. Uhl,
Office of Special Prosecutor, stated he
received a telephone call 4/24/75 from
Durham and that Durham told him he had been
contacted by representatives of the Office
of Senator Frank Church, Washington, D. C.,
requesting Durham's presence in Washington
during the week of April 28, 1975, for
purpose of attending staff meetings to
determine his potential as a witness before
committee investigating operations of the
FBI. Durham indicated he intended to com-
ply and would have no further contact with
the FBI. We are following this matter
closely and you will be kept advised.

General Investigative Division
Legal Counsel Division
External Affairs Division
William O. Cregar

DOJ/FBI

NR 005 OM PLAIN
4:39PM NITEL 4/24/75 RRH
TO: DIRECTOR (137-33264)
FROM: MINNEAPOLIS (157-1458)
OMAHA (170-231) (P)
FORMER MP 4115-E. Conf.
ON APRIL 24, 1975, AUSA KEITH E. UHL, ADVISED HE
RECEIVED TELEPHONE CALL FROM SUBJECT RELATING SUBJECT
HAD BEEN CONTACTED BY REPRESENTATIVES OF THE OFFICE
OF SENATOR FRANK CHURCH, WASHINGTON, D.C., REQUESTING
HIS PRESENCE IN WASHINGTON DURING WEEK OF APRIL 28,
1975, FOR PURPOSE OF STAFF MEETINGS TO DETERMINE
SUBJECT'S POTENTIAL AS WITNESS BEFORE CHURCH
COMMITTEE INVESTIGATING OPERATIONS OF THE FBI.
SUBJECT INDICATED HE INTENDED TO COMPLY WITH REQUEST
AND HAD DECIDED THAT IN VIEW OF THIS DEVELOPMENT, HE
WOULD DECLINE AND NOT SOLICIT ANY FURTHER CONTACT WITH
REPRESENTATIVES OF THE FBI.
END.
RSP FBIHQ
NOT RECORDED
Original Filed In 137 - 33264
JUN 11 1975

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10 5010-106
MAY 1962 EDITION
GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum
TO : Mr. W. R. Wannall
FROM : Mr. W. O. Cregar
SUBJECT: SENSTUDY 75

DATE April 22, 1975
1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall
1 - Mr. J. A. Mintz
1 - Mr. W. O. Cregar
1 - Mr. A. L. Lacey
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 1/19/01 BY SP-2 ALM/776

Assoc. Dir.
Dep. AD Adm.
Dep. AD Inv.
Asst. Dir.:
Admin.
Comp. Syst.
Ext. Affairs
Files & Com.
Gen. Inv.
Ident.
Inspection
Intell.
Laboratory
Plan. & Eval.
Spec. Inv.
Training
Legal Coun.
Telephone Rm.
Director Sec'y

The purpose of this memorandum is to record that
on 4/18/75 Mr. James Wilderotter, Associate Counsel to the
President, Executive Office Building, stated he had reviewed a
final copy of the Intelligence Division Position Paper on
Jurisdiction including Exhibit L, pages 36 and 37. Mr. Wilderotter
advised Bureau Supervisor Alonzo L. Lacey that The White House
interposed no objection to the Jurisdiction paper being furnished
to the Senate Select Committee.

With reference to the study entitled Intelligence
Division Position Paper on Jurisdiction, Mr. Wilderotter requested
that he be furnished a copy and this was done. In addition,
Wilderotter had previously on 4/4/75 reviewed the paper for
approval of the use of items concerning Presidential or National
Security Council interest.

ACTION:
For information and record purposes.

62-116395
REC-106
62-116395-99
ALL:ekw
(5)
84 MAY 7 1975

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10 5010-106
MAY 1962 EDITION
GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum
TO : Mr. J. A. Mintz
FROM : Mr. W. R. Wannall
SUBJECT: SENSTUDY 75
DATE: 4/7/75
1 - Mr. J. A. Mintz
1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall
1 - Mr. W. O. Cregar
1 - Mr. A. B. Fulton
1 - Mr. A. L. Lacey, Jr.
INTELLIGENCE DIVISION POSITION PAPER
ON AUTHORITY TO CONDUCT NATIONAL SECURITY
INTELLIGENCE INVESTIGATIONS

Assoc. Dir.
Dep. AD Adm.
Dep. AD Inv.
Asst. Dir.:
Admin.
Comp. Syst.
Ext. Affairs
Files & Com.
Gen. Inv.
Ident.
Inspection
Intell.
Laboratory
Plan. & Eval.
Spec. Inv.
Training
Legal Coun.
Telephone Rm.
Director Sec'y

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 7-7-00 BY SP-2 ALM/776

The purpose of this memorandum is to summarize investigative
efforts to authenticate Hoover memoranda dated 8/24-25/36.
Document Section, FBI Laboratory, determined the type appearing
on Hoover memorandum dated 8/25/36 was prepared on a Remington typewriter
with an elite type used since October, 1935. Hoover memorandum to Tamm dated
9/10/36, was prepared on an IBM typewriter with pica-style type used since 1930.
The letterhead used on both Hoover memoranda of 8/24-25/36 was
authorized FBI stationery effective August 14, 1936.

On 3/10/75, Mr. Donald B. Schewe, Assistant Librarian, Reference
Archives, Franklin D. Roosevelt Library, Hyde Park, New York, advised that
The White House Ushers Appointment Book contained entries showing that
on Thursday, August 24, 1936, from 9:20 a.m. to 10:12 a.m., President
Roosevelt met with Mr. Hoover in his residence at The White House prior to
leaving for his office. Schewe pointed out that this meeting was significant
since President Roosevelt met Mr. Hoover immediately after returning from
an extended trip, a departure from his usual practice. There was no entry
on 8/25/36, other than the President's departure for the Dakotas at 10:40 p.m.

On 4/2/75, review of Cordell Hull Papers, Library of Congress,
reflected that a Desk Diary (container #68, folder #295, microfilm #88) of
Secretary Hull contained an entry on 8/25/36 that the Secretary had luncheon
with the President between 1:00 p.m. to 3:15 p.m.

Detailed memorandum attached.

MEMORANDUM FOR MR. TAMM
FROM JOHN EDGAR HOOVER
DATED SEPTEMBER 10, 1936;
CONFIDENTIAL MEMORANDUM BY
JOHN EDGAR HOOVER DATED AUGUST 25, 1936.

On this date, SA Alonzo L. Lacey of the Intelligence
Division delivered the above-captioned memoranda to the Laboratory
with a request to determine the make of typewriter employed in
the preparation of the memoranda and the date of introduction
of the type styles employed. The purpose of this investigation
was to ascertain whether or not the type styles on the typewriters
used to write the memoranda were in use on the dates appearing
on the memoranda.

It was determined that the "Memorandum For Mr. Tamm
from John Edgar Hoover dated September 10, 1936" was prepared
on an IBM typewriter equipped with a pica style of type which
has been in use since 1930. The typewriting comprising the
"Confidential Memorandum by John Edgar Hoover dated August 25,
1936" was determined to have been prepared on a Remington
typewriter equipped with an elite style of type that has been in
use since October, 1935.

The memoranda were returned to SA Lacey.

RECOMMENDATION:

The result of this examination be forwarded to the
Intelligence Division.

Mr. Wannall
Mr. Lacey
Mr. White
Mr. Mortimer
Mr. Oberg

WSO:mrg

OFFICE OF DIRECTOR
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
August 14, 1936

Mr. Kelley
Mr. Cafferty
Mr. Baway
Mr. Edwards
Mr. Egan
Mr. Faville
Mr. Gavin
Mr. Hottel
Mr. Lasho
Mr. Lester
Mr. Nichols
Mr. Quinn
Mr. Scheidler
Mr. Tamm
Mr. Tracy
The new letterheads.

INDEXED
AUG 18 1936
G. P. O.
ENCLOSURE

JOHN EDGAR HOOVER
DIRECTOR
Federal Bureau of Investigation
United States Department of Justice
Washington, D. C.
August 14, 1936

Mr. Caley
Mr. Cafferty
Mr. Baway
Mr. Edwards
Mr. Egan
Mr. Faville
Mr. Gavin
Mr. Hottel
Mr. Lasho
Mr. Lester
Mr. Nichols
Mr. Quinn
Mr. Scheidler
Mr. Tamm
Mr. Tracy

The new letterheads.

TO BE DESTROYED

ENCLOSURE

RESEARCH CONDUCTED AT FRANKLIN D.
ROOSEVELT LIBRARY, HYDE PARK, NY.
ON 3/10-12/75

On 3/10/74, Mr. DONALD B. SCHEWE, Assistant
Librarian in the Reference Archives, Franklin D. Roosevelt
Library, Hyde Park, NY, was advised of our interest in
locating any communications bearing upon a conversation
between former President FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT and former
Secretary of State CORDELL HULL in the latter part of
August, 1936. Mr. SCHEWE was advised that this conversation
was concerned with the security of the US and that Mr. J.
EDGAR HOOVER of the FBI may have participated in this
conversation. Mr. SCHEWE was also advised that Mr. ROOSEVELT
allegedly reduced the subject matter of above conversation
to a memorandum and that we were interested in locating
this memorandum or some information bearing upon above
conversation. Arrangements were made to meet with Mr. SCHEWE
at the Franklin D. Roosevelt Library in Hyde Park, NY,
on 3/12/75. Mr. SCHEWE indicated that in the meantime
he would conduct some research in this matter.

On 3/12/75, Mr. SCHEWE advised that he had
conducted some research relative to our telephone call
on 3/10/75, and inquired if we could be more specific
with regard to the dates of the information desired.
SCHEWE was advised that to the best of our knowledge the
conversation we were interested in involving FRANKLIN D.
ROOSEVELT (FDR), HULL and Mr. HOOVER, occurred on
approximately 8/24-26/36 and that the conversation concerned
the internal security of the US.

Mr. SCHEWE, at this point, furnished a Xerox
copy of a "buck slip" dated 8/24/36, (copy of which is
attached) on White House stationery, classified "Confidential
and addressed to the Secretary of State from FDR".

Mr. SCHEWE stated that "buck slips" are nothing more
than a cover memorandum utilized to transmit communications
which are attached thereto. It is to be noted that this
"buck slip" indicates that attached to it was a memorandum
for the Secretary of State, unsigned, undated and
recommending coordination of activities of all agents
of the Government in foreign countries. SCHEWE advised

that the synopsis of this memorandum which appears on
the "buck slip" was the usual practice at that time to
identify the documents attached to it. SCHEWE added
that this was the only document he was able to locate
which may have some bearing on the desired information.
SCHEWE stated that the possibility exists that the
referred to memorandum may be located among the collection
of papers of CORDELL HULL which are now stored at the
Library of Congress, Washington, D.C.

Mr. SCHEWE then exhibited to interviewing personnel
the White House Ushers Appointment Book which was
hand-written and kept on a daily basis. This appointment
book contained the following pertinent information:

Thursday, August 13, 1936, at 9:50 AM
FDR departed the White House for a visit
to the flood areas in NY, Ohio and Pennsyl-
vania.

Thursday, August 24, 1936, FDR returned
to White House at 8:45 AM.
9:20 AM FDR met with Mr. HOOVER from
9:20 AM to 10:12 AM.

(Note - There is no entry in this book
for Aug. 24, 1936, indicating that Mr.
HULL was there. Mr. SCHEWE advised that
it is interesting to note that FDR met
Mr. HOOVER in his residence in the White
House on 8/24/36, prior to leaving for
his office in the White House. SCHEWE
also pointed out that this meeting was
significant since FDR met with Mr. HOOVER
on 8/24/36, immediately after returning
from an extended trip. This, according
to SCHEWE was a departure from FDR's
usual practice.
There was no record in the White House
Usher's Appointment Book for 8/25/36, which would indicate
that FDR met with either Mr. HULL or Mr. HOOVER on that
date. This book indicates that FDR departed the White
House on Tuesday, 8/25/75, at 10:40 PM for a trip to the
draught areas, in upper Maine, South Dakota and North

Dakota, as well as a visit to Mt. Rushmore. FDR did not
return to the White House until Sunday, Sept. 6, 1936,
at 10:02 AM.

The White House Usher's Appointment Book
further reflects that FDR, during the period July 10,
1936, to Aug. 10, 1936, was away from the White House
campaigning. FDR returned to the White House on
8/10/36, and remained there until 8/13/36, when he
again departed on a trip and returned on 8/24/36.
FDR also departed from the White House on 8/25/36,
and returned on 9/6/36.

Mr. SCHEWE also produced to interviewing
personnel the appointment book of FDR's private secretary,
GRACE TULLY for the pertinent period. This appointment book
reflects all of FDR's office appointments. A review
of this appointment book fails to reflect that FDR met
or had an appointment with Mr. HOOVER in his office
during the period 8/13/36 to 9/6/36. However, this
appointment book does reflect that during this period
FDR did have a meeting with CORDELL HULL on 8/25/36,
at 1:00 PM.

Mr. SCHEWE further advised that he personally
reviewed the following and was unable to locate any
documents or references which could possibly shed some
light on the matter of interest to us:

1.) Papers kept in FDR's safe.
2.) Papers kept by his secretary in a separate
White House safe.
3.) Papers kept in FDR's official presidential
file.
4.) Papers kept in FDR's alphabetical file.
maintained by his secretary.
5.) Individual agencies files.
6.) J. EDGAR HOOVER's file.

7.) Attorney General's file.
8.) Assistant Attorney General's file.
9.) National Security file.
10.) Internal Security file.
11.) FBI file.

In conclusion, Mr. SCHEWE stated that after
reviewing all of the above data, he concluded that the
pertinent document of interest to us is not at the FDR
Library at Hyde Park, NY. SCHEWE added that if any
such document is at the Library, it is misfiled and
as there are approximately 21 million pages of manuscripts
and documents at the Library, it would be impossible
to locate same.

It is to be noted that on the enclosed
"buck slip" there are four penciled notations, i.e.
285-C, X20, X285 and X67. SCHEWE stated that these
notations are part of the FDR Library cross-reference
system. SCHEWE added that he checked these references
and could locate nothing further regarding the matter
of interest to us. SCHEWE stated that these references
pertained to the enclosed "buck slip".

THE WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON

August 24, 1936.

Memo, from State, unsigned and undated, recommend-
ing coordination of activities of all agents of the
govt. in foreign countries: each agency as it is
related to the others, and all in their relation
to the State Department; makes 9 recommendations
of coordination.

Assoc. Dir.
Dep-A.D.-Adm.
Dep-A.D.-Inv.
Asst. Dir.:
Admin.
Comp. Syst.
Ext. Affairs
Files & Com.
Gen. Inv.
Ident.
Inspection
Intell.
Laboratory
Plan. & Eval.
Spec. Inv.
Training
Legal Coun.
Telephone Rm.
Director Sec'y

NR 003 AX CODE
11:43PM NITEL MAY 3, 1975
TO DIRECTOR (62-116395)
FROM ALEXANDRIA (62-NEW) (P)
SENSTUDY 75
RE BUTEL MAY 2, 1975.

FORMER BUREAU AGENT WILLIAM P. GEORGE, 6302 GOLF COURSE SQUARE,
ALEXANDRIA, VA., CONTACTED MAY 2, 1975 AND STATED THAT IN EVENT HE IS
CONTACTED BY STAFF OF SENATE OR HOUSE COMMITTEES, HE MAY REFUSE TO BE
INTERVIEWED, BUT IF HE CONSENTS TO BE INTERVIEWED HE WILL REQUEST
PRESENCE OF FBI AGENT, IF QUESTIONS ARE ASKED RELATIVE TO SENSATIVE
TO BUREAU OPERATIONS.

INQUIRY AT RESIDENCE OF HAROLD P. LEINBAUGH, 1160 WIMBLEDON
DRIVE, MC LEAN, VA., ON MAY 2, 1975, REVEALS THAT HE IS PRESENTLY AT
CLE MEDITERRANEAN, HOTEL CARAVELLE, ST. ANNE, GUADALUPE, FRENCH
INDIES. HE IS EXPECTED TO RETURN TO HIS RESIDENCE ON MAY 18, 1975.

BUREAU IS REQUESTED TO ADVISE IF ALEXANDRIA SHOULD CONTACT
LEINBAUGH UPON HIS RETURN.

TJT FBIHQ CLR

NR 002 BA PLAIN
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION
1220PM URGENT MAY 3, 1975
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (62-116395)
FROM: BALTIMORE (62-NEW)
SENSTUDY 75
RE BUREAU TEL, MAY 2, 1975.

DONALD G. HANNING, 18 OXFORD STREET, CHEVY CHASE,
MARYLAND, CONTACTED INSTANT DATE BY SAC, BALTIMORE.
INSTRUCTIONS IN REFERENCED TELETYPE FOLLOWED. HANNING
ADVISED HAD NOT BEEN CONTACTED BY ANY REPRESENTATIVE OF
THE SENATE OR HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEES TO DATE. ADVISED
WOULD CONTACT SAC, BALTIMORE SHOULD HE BE CONTACTED IN
THE FUTURE.

ENDDSS FBIHQ CCLR

PERSONNEL RECORDS UNIT
COPY RETAINED IN

Assoc. Dir.
Dep.-A.D.-Adm.
Dep.-A.D.-Inv.
Asst. Dir.:
Admin.
Comp. Syst.
Ext. Affairs
Files & Com.
Gen. Inv.
Ident.
Inspection
Intell.
Laboratory
Plan. & Eval.
Spec. Inv.
Training
Legal Coun.
Telephone Rm.
Director Sec'y

NR 05 OM PLAIN
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION
MAY 02 1975
TELETYPE
7:00 PM CST URGENT MAY 2, 1975 SKH
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (62-116395)
FROM: OMAHA (62-NEW) (P)
SENSTUDY 75.
RE BUREAU TELETYPE, MAY 2, 1975.
FORMER SA JOHN J. QUINN WAS CONTACTED BY ME PERSONALLY
AND ADVISED PER INSTRUCTIONS IN RETEL. HE WAS APPRECIATIVE
OF ADVANCED NOTICE RE POSSIBLE INTERVIEW AND STATED THAT
HE WOULD DESIRE AN AGENT BE PRESENT IF SUCH INTERVIEW
OCCURS. STATED HE WOULD PERSONALLY CONTACT ME IF HE IS
CONTACTED BY STAFF MEMBERS.
END REC: 106 62-116395-96
MAH FBIHQ ACK FOR ONE
WA CRLR
COPY RETAINED IN
PERSONNEL RECORDS UNIT

2 - Mr. S. F. Phillips
April 30, 1975
MATERIAL FOR SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE (SSC)
INVESTIGATING INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

1. TITLE/SUBJECT: Policies and Procedures of the FBI
2. ORIGINATING ORGANIZATION: FBI
3. NATURE OF MATERIAL: Letterhead memorandum with
enclosures described below
4. DOCUMENT CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified except for one
enclosure which is classified "Secret."
5. NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION STAMP: Should have
6. SUMMARY OF CONTENTS:
Following excerpts from the FBI Manual of Instructions:
(a) Table of Contents.
(b) Preface. Guidelines for FBI Investigations.
(c) Section 36. Espionage (classified "Secret").
(d) Section 84. Registration Act.
(e) Section 86. Sabotage.
(f) Section 87. Investigations of Subversive
Organizations and Individuals.
(g) Section 88. Sedition.
(h) Section 95. Treason.
(i) Section 97. Voorhis Act.
(j) Section 122. Extremist Matters and Civil
Unrest.
Also, Table of Contents of the FBI Manual of Rules
and Regulations.

Assoc. Dir.
Dep. AD Adm.
Asst. Dir.:
Admin.
Comp. Syst.
Ext. Affairs
Files & Com.
Gen. Inv.
Ident.
Inspection
Laboratory
Plan. & Eval.
Legal Coun.
Director Sec'y

Material furnished includes policy, statutes,
instructions and related matters covering FBI investigations
in the security field generally. Limited, extremely sensitive
material excluded but available for review by appropriately
cleared personnel of the SSC Staff at FBI Headquarters.

7. REQUESTER/DATE OF REQUEST: SSC. 3/19/75
8. RELEASING AUTHORITY: FBI
9. DATE OF SUBMISSION: 4/7/75
10. LOCATION OF FILE COPY: FBI file 62-116395-75
11. RELATION TO INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY PROBLEMS:
No direct relation.

NOTE: Original via liaison to Central Community Index
in connection with Senstudy 75.

Routing Slip (Copies Checked)
TO: SACs TO LEGAT:
Albany Houston Oklahoma City Beirut
Albuquerque Indianapolis Omaha Bern
Alexandria Jackson Philadelphia Bonn
Anchorage Jacksonville Phoenix Brasilia
Atlanta Kansas City Pittsburgh Buenos Aires
Baltimore Knoxville Portland Caracas
Birmingham Las Vegas Richmond Hong Kong
Boston Little Rock Sacramento London
Buffalo Los Angeles St. Louis Madrid
Butte Louisville Salt Lake City Manila
Charlotte Memphis San Antonio Mexico City
Cincinnati Milwaukee San Juan Ottawa
Cleveland Minneapolis Savannah Paris
Columbia Mobile Seattle Rome
Dallas Newark Springfield Singapore
Denver New Haven Tampa Tel Aviv
Detroit New Orleans Washington Field Tokyo
El Paso New York City Quantico
Honolulu Norfolk
RE: DATE 3/8/75
SENSTUDY 75
PERSONAL ATTN.
Retention For appropriate
For information optional action Surep. by
The enclosed is for your information. If used in a future report, conceal all
sources, paraphrase contents.
Enclosed are corrected pages from report of SA
dated
Remarks:
Attached should be brought to the attention
of Assistant Legat Armand Cammarota. For
his information, the SSC has exhibited an
interest in Bureau's communications to
Rome in 1964 and is aware Cammarota was
then Legat there. He thus may be contacted
by SSC personnel.

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10 5010-106
MAY 1962 EDITION
GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum
TO : MR. CALLAHAN DATE: 2/1/75
FROM : J. B. ADAMS
SUBJECT: SENSTUDY 1975

On 2/6/75 Mr. Kelley and I met with Senator Church
and Bill Miller, Staff Director of the Senate Select Committee.
Senator Church pointed out that he intended to run the Committee in
a very responsible manner, had no intention of destroying or impairing
the effectiveness of the intelligence community and, in fact, hoped that
the efforts of the Committee would help to reestablish public confidence
in the intelligence agencies.

Parameters have not been drawn but Senator Church feels that
the Committee will confine its activities largely to inquiries into domestic
activities. The inquiries will be designed to determine whether agencies
have acted outside the law and the type of remedial legislation necessary
to prevent such abuses in the future.

Study will be largely concerned with the activities of the Central
Intelligence Agency but will, of course, involve the FBI and other agencies
involved in domestic intelligence.

The Committee hopes to have a nonpartisan staff of approximately
40 employees headed up by Mr. Miller and would appreciate having necessary
background investigations expedited to permit an early clearance. Miller
indicated he has already been in touch with Mr. Hotis and Mr. Bowers in
this regard. It was explained that the contemplated procedure involved the
FBI conducting the full-field investigation necessary with the results being
furnished to the Chairman, after which he would, upon being personally
satisfied as to their loyalty, furnish the results to CIA for final clearance.
Senator Church appeared satisfied with this arrangement. He stated that
he wanted to prevent leaks and be hopefully as successful as the Judiciary
Committee was on the impeachment inquiry. Our experience in this regard
was pointed out whereby Judiciary Committee in connection with the 17
wiretaps had written us a letter indicating that if we made classified
information available they would afford it appropriate security restricted
to members only, excluding staff, and would not make the information
public. Subsequent to the hearings, the Committee published its report
which contained our classified documents right along with the Top Secret
classifications. Senator Church was not aware of this, appeared surprised
by it, and stated surely the information must have been declassified. I
advised him that not by us and it was our information.

Senator Church was asked whether in his opinion the formation
of the Select Committee would have any effect on the proliferation of
committees seeking to obtain testimony from the FBI and it was his opinion
that this would have a favorable effect. He said he had been in touch with
other members of the Senate who felt that it was a waste of time to have
repetitious testimony on the same subject matter before a variety of
committees and he had the feeling that the other committees would hold off
until after the Senate Select Committee completed its hearings. He indicated
that he could not vouch for what would happen in the House, however, he
intended to speak to the House leadership in order to try to effect some
coordinated approach there also, because he was well aware of the large
number of committees seeking to provide oversight or obtain information
from the intelligence agencies.

A question arose as to the extent of cooperation with the Committee
and Senator Church was assured that the FBI would be completely responsive
subject to certain limitations which would have to be delineated by the
President in order to protect sensitive sources and information. Senator
Church indicated that he was going to talk to the President in this regard in
order to secure his complete cooperation, and it was Senator Church's feeling
that the Committee should be entitled to answers to any questions they might
ask without restriction other than, of course, the identities of informants.

He felt the progress of the Committee would be severely impaired if it were
necessary to go to Court over such questions to obtain enforcement of their
right to have access to whatever information they need.

ACTION:
Information.

CODE TELETYPE NITEL
Mr. T.J.Jenkins 5/2/75
Mr. J. B. Adams
Each Assistant Director
Mr. W. O. Cregar

SENSTUDY 75, PERSONAL ATTENTION
TO SACS ALL OFFICES
FROM DIRECTOR FBI (62-116395)

CAPTIONED MATTER PERTAINS TO BUREAU'S HANDLING OF REQUESTS
FROM SENATE AND HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEES TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL
OPERATIONS WITH RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES. IN
CONNECTION WITH WORK OF THESE COMMITTEES, STAFF MEMBERS MAY SEEK
TO INTERVIEW CURRENT AND FORMER FBI EMPLOYEES.
RECENTLY, THE SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE (SSC) STAFF HAS
INTERVIEWED SEVERAL FORMER EMPLOYEES AND IT IS ANTICIPATED
THAT MANY MORE SUCH PERSONNEL WILL BE CONTACTED.
THE FBI HAS PLEDGED FULL COOPERATION WITH THE COMMITTEE
AND WE WISH TO ASSIST AND FACILITATE ANY INVESTIGATIONS UNDER-
TAKEN BY THE COMMITTEE WITH RESPECT TO THE FBI. HOWEVER, WE
DO HAVE AN OBLIGATION TO INSURE THAT SENSITIVE SOURCES AND
METHODS AND ONGOING SENSITIVE INVESTIGATIONS ARE FULLY
PROTECTED.

Inspection
Intell.
Spec. Inv.
Training

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION
TELETYPE UNIT

Director Sec'y

TELETYPE TO ALL OFFICES
RE: SENSTUDY 75
62-116395
PROTECTED. SHOULD ANY FORMER EMPLOYEE CONTACT YOUR OFFICE AND
HAVE ANY QUESTION REGARDING HIS OBLIGATION NOT TO DIVULGE INFOR-
MATION OBTAINED BY VIRTUE OF HIS PAST FBI EMPLOYMENT, HE SHOULD
BE INSTRUCTED TO CONTACT LEGAL COUNSEL, FBIHQ, BY COLLECT CALL.
YOUR CONVERSATIONS WITH FORMER EMPLOYEES MUST BE IN KEEPING WITH
OUR PLEDGE. IT IS BELIEVED SUCH A PROCEDURE WOULD INSURE PROPER
PROTECTION AND ALSO FACILITATE THE WORK OF THE SSC.

THE ABOVE PROCEDURE ALSO APPLIES TO CURRENT EMPLOYEES
OF YOUR OFFICE. HOWEVER, CONTACT WITH THE LEGAL COUNSEL SHOULD
BE HANDLED THROUGH THE SAC.

NOTE: Teletype prepared for all offices to alert SACs to
the possibility former employees may contact their offices seeking
guidance.

The Office of Legal Counsel in response to requests from
former employees will utilize the briefing paper prepared by the
Intelligence Community Staff of the Director of Central
Intelligence and concurred in by Assistant Attorney General
Antonino Scalia.

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10 5010-106
MAY 1962 EDITION
GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum
TO : MR. W. R. WANNALL DATE: May 1, 1975
FROM : MR. W. O. CREGAR
SUBJECT: SENSTUDY 75
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 1/19/01 BY SP-2 ALM/776

Assoc. Dir.
Dep. AD Inv.
Asst. Dir.:
Admin.
Comp. Syst.
Ext. Affairs
Files & Com.
Gen. Inv.
Ident.
Inspection
Intell.
Laboratory
Plan. & Eval.
Spec. Inv.
Training
Legal Coun.
Telephone Rm.
Director Sec'y

This memorandum for record purposes reports
discussion 4/25/75 between Bureau's Liaison Agent, L. F. Schwartz,
and Mr. Jack E. Thomas, Chief, Coordination Staff, Intelligence
Community Staff, relating to Abstracts we are to prepare for the
Central Community Index (CCI) in connection with Senstudy 75.

Attached are (1) memorandum 4/11/75 re CCI and its
attachments, memorandum 4/10/75 and Abstract format; and (2) letter
4/21/75 from Thomas to Schwartz and its attachment, Abstract format.
On 4/25/75 Schwartz and Thomas discussed applicability of
instructions in attachments and arrived at the following under-
standings.

The FBI will provide Abstracts only, not documents,
to have on record in the CCI a summary