124-90139-10002

[2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90139-10002
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: CR SEE TITLE

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: PAPICH
TO: BRENNAN
TITLE: [Restricted]
DATE: 10/10/1963
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS:
CIA LIAISON MATERIAL
[Restricted]
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: MEMO

NW 50953 DocId:32337875 Page 1

---

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY 1962 EDITION

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum

TO: Mr. D. J. Brennan
FROM: Mr. S. J. Papich
SUBJECT: MANUEL PINEIRO

DATE: 10/10/63

Tolson
Belmont
Mohr
Casper
Callahan
Conrad
DeLoach
Evans
Gale
Rosen
Sullivan
Tavel
Trotter
Tele. Room
Holmes
Gandy
Wall

We previously have been informed that the subject is a high-ranking official in the Cuban G-2 organization in Havana. On 10/8/63, Mrs. Anita Potocki, a CIA analyst who has been working on intercepted Cuban communications intelligence traffic advised the Liaison Agent that her Agency has come to the tentative conclusion that Pineiro is identical with Petronio who has been mentioned in messages made available to the Bureau and CIA. We have noted that messages sent to the unidentified Cuban Agent in Panama referred to as "Roberto" have been signed by Petronio which led to Mrs. Potocki's deduction.

Mrs. Potocki gave the following explanation:

Messages emanating from Havana indicated that one of the recipients was probably located in a small town in Colombia near the Venezuelan Border. CIA developed a suspect and instituted coverage. Recently, this individual transmitted a letter to Havana which communication was intercepted by CIA. The person had apparently violated instructions by including some sensitive data in the communication. Havana then transmitted a radio message castigating the Cuban Agent in Colombia. An examination of the radio message and the intercepted communication sent by the Agent has led CIA to believe that "Petronio" is identical with Pineiro.

ACTION:

The above information is being directed to the Nationalities Intelligence Section. CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION IN THIS DOCUMENT.

Bufile 105-78656

65-67843 ("Roberto")

Liaison
Mr. Papich
Mr. Wannall
Mr. Dunn

SJP:chs
JJD:

Classified by 5668
Declassify on: 25X

SECRET

(JFK)

NW 50953 DocId:32337875 Page 2
