124-10279-10018 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 5/7/2015

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10279-10018
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-12-221-1790

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: CIA
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 08/30/1967
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS: EGD, ASSOC, ARRESTED, ROLE, ACAPULCO MURDERS
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Confidential
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/30/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: v9.1

HW 50953 DocId: 32301683 Page 1

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY • ROUTINE
Intelligence Information Cable IN-41475
PAGE 1 OF 2 PAGES

NIC NSA OCR SDO AID
USIA ONE ORR DCS CGS

STATE/INR DIA NMCC/MC (SECDEF ARMY NAVY AIR) CIA/NMCC

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C.
Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE.

CITE TDCS-314/13013-67
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

COUNTRY: MEXICO
DOI: 28 AUGUST 1967
SUBJECT: ARREST OF FEDERAL DEPUTY CESAR DEL ANGEL FUENTES FOR AGITATIONAL ACTIVITIES IN GUERRERO

DIST: 30 AUGUST 1967
ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 9-18-95 BY 5668
(JFK)

ACQ: MEXICO, MEXICO CITY (29 AUGUST 1967) FIELD REPORT
SOURCE: MEXICAN SECURITY OFFICER WITH ACCESS TO INFORMATION
NO. HMM-11,295

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT.
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
SANITIZED
GMB 3/14/97 (IFE)
KP 1-14-98

DERIVED FROM INVESTIGATIVE ACTIVITIES. HIS REPORTING
HAS BEEN RELIABLE SINCE EARLY 1966.

FIELD COMMENT: THE ROLE OF FEDERAL DEPUTY FROM THE
STATE OF VERACRUZ, CESAR DEL ANGEL FUENTES, IN THE CLASH BE-
TWEEN RIVAL FACTIONS OF THE COPRA GROWERS' UNION IN ACAPULCO,
GUERRERO, OVER THE WEEKEND OF 19-20 AUGUST 1967 RESULTING
IN THE DEATH OF ABOUT THIRTY PERSONS AND THE WOUNDING OF ABOUT
ONE HUNDRED, HAS BEEN WIDELY PUBLICIZED IN THE MEXICAN PRESS.
THERE HAS BEEN SPECULATION THAT HE WOULD BE ARRESTED, BUT FOR
HIS CONGRESSIONAL IMMUNITY. HIS IMMUNITY, HOWEVER, EXPIRES

54 SEP 12 1967 C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L NO FOREIGN DISSEM

HW 50953 DocId: 32301683 Page 2

IN-41475
TDCS-314/13013-67
PAGE 2 OF 2 PAGES

LIAISON SECTION FBI
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
(classification) (dissem controls)
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

WITH HIS TERM ON 1 SEPTEMBER.

2. ON 28 AUGUST 1967, AGENTS OF THE MINISTRY OF GOVERN-
MENT (GOBERNACION) ARRESTED FEDERAL DEPUTY CESAR DEL ANGEL AS
HE WAS LEAVING THE HOME OF ELENA GARRO DE PAZ, LEFTIST MEXICAN
PLAYWRIGHT. HE IS BEING INTERROGATED ABOUT HIS ROLE IN THE
"ACAPULCO MURDERS."

3. FIELD DISSEM: STATE ARMY NAVY AIR FBI CINCSO
REPORT CLASS: CONFIDENTIAL NO FOREIGN DISSEM
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

HW 50953 DocId: 32301683 Page 3
