124-10281-10028

[2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

**Agency Information**
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10281-10028
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 62-80750-4563

**Document Information**
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SHRODER, R. I.
TO: ROSEN
TITLE:
DATE: 03/15/1967
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS: [Restricted]
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/11/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS:
Date: 4/14/201

NW 50953 DocId: 32302308 Page 1

---

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY 1962 EDITION
GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27
5010-106

SECRET

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum

DATE: March 15, 1967

TO: Mr. Rosen

FROM: Shroder

SUBJECT: COMMUNIST PARTY OF VENEZUELA
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA)
INTERNAL SECURITY
KIDNAPING
VENEZUELA

1 = Mr. Malley
1 = Mr. Shroder
1 = Mr. Thompson
1 = Mr. Sullivan
Tolson
DeLoach
Mohr
Wick
Casper
Callahan
Conrad
Felt
Gele
Rosen
Sullivan
Tavol
Trotter
Tele. Room
Holmes
Gandy

Classified by 56 BJA/60
Declassify on: OADR

This relates to information received from CIA indicating the possibility that the Communist Party of Venezuela may attempt to kidnap the child of a CIA employee Thomas Keogh. No investigation is being conducted by us and appropriate dissemination has previously been made.

At our suggestion, through liaison with CIA fingerprints and photographs have been obtained and were furnished to SA W. O. Cregar by Mrs. Jane Roman of CIA on 3/10/67. This material is being made part of this file for possible use in the event of a kidnaping. Photographs and fingerprints are of the following individuals: Joseph Edward Keogh; Thomas Patrick Keogh, Jr.; Christina Margarita Keogh; Elizabeth Teresa Keogh; Francis Zavier Keogh; Thomas Patrick Keogh, III; and Maria Rita Keogh.

This matter has been coordinated with the Identification Division and it is recommended that this memo and attachment be sent directly to SA Carl Volker, Room 4125, IB, in order that the fingerprints may be promptly classified and filed.

Enclosure

(Fingerprints of following and related data)

MARIA RITA KEOGH
EDWARD JOSEPH KEOGH
CHRISTINA MARGARITA KEOGH
ELIZABETH TERESA KEOGH
FRANCIS XAVIER KEOGH
THOMAS PATRICK KEOGH, JR.
THOMAS PATRICK KEOGH III

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT.
(SD(S) EXCEPT FOR THE BRACKETS

SEE REVERSE SIDE FOR ACTION

NW 50953 DocId: 32302308 Page 2
