AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10206-10337
RECORD SERIES: HO
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 2-2173-37

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI
TO: SAC, MM
TITLE:

DATE: 10/15/1976
PAGES: 7
SUBJECT: OBA, SUSP, CUBANA AIRLINES, BOMBING, TRA, ASSOC, POLIT
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
ORIGINAL Secret
CLASSIFICATION:
NEW
CLASSIFICATION:
REVIEW DATE: 05/11/1998 UPDATE DATE:

STATUS: Redact
RESTRICTIONS: JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

HW 50953 DocId: 32291061 Page 1

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION
OCT 15/1976
TELETYPE

SECRET NOFORN. CITE CIA 928148.T
TD FIRDR-315/10256-76 (ADVANCE)T
THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT.

EXCEPT BRACKETS ON PGS.
2,3,4 AND 6 (JFK)

SLD/KST

ZEN/TREASURY DEPT
ZEN/CMO
ZEN/SSO AUST
ZEN/AFS SO USAF
RUEKICS/DIA
ZEN/JCS
RUEHC/DEPT
ZEN/CIA GPSCEN

INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED.
DATE 4/12/94

REPORT CLASS SECRET--WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

Assoc. Dir.
Dep.-A.D.-Adm.
Dep. A.D.-Inv.
Asst. Dir.:
Adm. Serv.
Ext. Affairs
Fin. & Pers.
Gen. Inv.
Ident.
Laboratory
Legal Comm.
Plan & Insp.
Rec. Mgmt.
Spec. Inv.
Training
Telephone Rm.
Director Sec'y

HW 50953 DocId: 32291061 Page 2

SECRET NOFORN
SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS--T
NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS.T

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA/CUBA
DOI: LATE SEPTEMBER - 12 OCTOBER 1976T
SUBJECT: ACTIVITIES OF CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO BOSCH DURING
HIS STAY IN VENEZUELA
ACQ: VENEZUELA, CARACAS (13 OCTOBER 1976) FIELD NO. HVC 7514T (S)

SOURCE: A FORMER VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL WHO STILL MAINTAINS
CLOSE RELATIONSHIPS WITH GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS, WHO IS A
USUALLY RELIABLE REPORTER. HIS INFORMATION IS NOT TO BE
DISCUSSED WITH ANY FOREIGN OFFICIALS, INCLUDING THOSE
OF THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT.T

1. FIELD COMMENT: IN LATE SEPTEMBER 1976 A USUALLY RELIABLE
SOURCE REPORTED THAT CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO BOSCH WAS IN
VENEZUELA UNDER THE PROTECTION OF VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT CARLOS
ANDRES PEREZ. FURTHERMORE, PEREZ HAD APPOINTED HIS SECURITY
AND INTELLIGENCE ADVISER ORLANDO GARCIA TO PROTECT AND ASSIST

HW 50953 DocId: 32291061 Page 3

PAGE 3473-89 6380 SECRET NOFORN
POSCH DURING HIS STAY IN VENEZUELA. FOR THIS INFORMATION SEE
HVC 7498, DFIRDB-315/-76. IN HVC 7483, DFIRDB-315/T. (S)
79430-76, OF MID-SEPTEMBER, A SOURCE OF UNDETERMINED RELIABILITY
REPORTED THAT BOSCH ARRIVED IN VENEZUELA ON APPROXIMATELY 13 SEPTEMBER.T

2. UPON HIS ARRIVAL IN CARACAS, BOSCH WAS MET AT THE AIRPORT
BY GARCIA AND LUIS CLEMENTE POSADA, A PRIVATE INVESTIGATOR
AND ONE-TIME MEMBER OF THE DIRECTORATE FOR THE SERVICES OF INTELLIGENCE
AND PREVENTION (DISIP) WHO ESCORTED BOSCH TO HIS CARACAS HOTEL.T

FIELD COMMENT: WHILE CURRENTLY NATURALIZED VENEZUELAN CITIZENS,T
BOTH GARCIA AND POSADA ARE NATIVE-BORN CUBANS.T

3. SOMETIME FOLLOWING BOSCH'S ARRIVAL IN CARACAS, A BS.T
5,072 (APPROXIMATELY U.S. $1,118) PLATE FUND-RAISING DINNER FOR
BOSCH WAS HELD AT THE HOME OF HILDO FOLGAR, A PROMINENT
SURGEON AND CUBAN EXILE. IN ADDITION TO BOSCH, AMONG THOSE ATTENDING
THE DINNER WERE GARCIA; RICARDO MORALES NAVARRETE, GARCIA'S
DEPUTY WHO IS ALSO A NATIVE-BORN CUBAN; POSADA; AND AN UNIDENTIFIED
HIGH-LEVEL OFFICIAL OF THE MINISTRY OF INTERIOR.T

HW 50953 DocId: 32291061 Page 4

PAGE 6380 SECRET NOFORN

HAS DIFFERENT INFORMATION AS TO WHETHER BOSCH WAS EXFILTRATED OR IS
OR IS NOT IN VENEZUELA. GARCIA SPOKE TO LEGATT SUNDAY MORNING,
OCTOBER, AND ON THE AFTERNOON OF 12 OCTOBER TOLD HIM "INFORMALLY"T
THAT THE PRESIDENT WOULD SHORTLY ADVISE ME THAT BOSCH WOULD BE
TURNED OVER TO US. THIS WAS REPEATED TO LEGATT BY DISIP DIRECTOR
RAUL GIMENEZ GAINZA AND OTHER DISIP OFFICIALS (INCLUDING
GARCIA) IN A MEETING THE MORNING OF 13 OCTOBER. CONCEIVABLY GARCIA
CAN BE PLAYING A DARK GAME, BUT THE DISCREPANCIES ARE NOTEWORTHY.T
I HAVE NOT YET RECEIVED ANY OFFICIAL WORD AS TO THE PRESIDENT'S
DECISION.T

11. [FIELD] DISSEM: EMBASSY, LEGATT AT CARACAS: SENT TO
PORT OF SPAIN, GEORGETOWN, KINGSTON, MEXICO CITY, MANAGUA,T
GUATEMALA CITY, PANAMA CITY, SANTO DOMINGO, SANTIAGO, BOGOTA, T (S)

REPORT CLASS SECRET--WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE
SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED --NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS--T
NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS.T
CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XG DS-2T

HW 50953 DocId: 32291061 Page 5
