124-10221-10229 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System
Date: 5/11/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10221-10229
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-72630-3

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, SJ
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 08/27/1958
PAGES: 9
SUBJECTS: PDL, ASSOC, PILOT, CASTRO, FIDEL, TRA, FLIGHT PLAN, DESTINATION, RCK
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/03/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: INC 6 S/S, MEMO

HW 50953 DocId:32340836 Page 1

---

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI
Date: 8/27/58

Transmit the following in
Via AIRTEL
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
FROM: SAN JUAN (105-new)
SUBJECT: PEDRO LUIS DIAZ LANZ;
RENALDO BLANCO HERNANDEZ;
ALBERTO EUSEBIO MOJENA
IS - CUBA

(CIA) advised that they received the following information from a usually reliable source. Information is prefaced with the following statement: "In view of the sensitive means through which we acquired it, it is requested that the FBI take no action which might compromise our source."

By communication marked "Secret" dated 8/26/58 [DAVID R. MCLEAN] H & R Section, Fort Brooke

Communication states that PEDRO LUIS DIAZ LANZ, also known as PEDRO LUIS DIAZ, a Cuban born November 8, 1926 at Havana, is a pilot, courier, and possible agent for FIDEL CASTRO. DIAZ is reportedly associated with REINALDO BLANCO HERNANDEZ and ALBERTO EUSEBIO MOJENA who are Cubans and not further identified. Jamaican police believe that these three individuals operate from Ft. Lauderdale, Florida.

DIAZ passed through Palisades Airport, Kingston, Jamaica, on May 5, 1958. On July 17, 1958, DIAZ arrived at the Palisades Airport, piloting a Cessna aircraft, #M5213D with BLANCO as a passenger.

HW 50953 DocId:32340836 Page 2
