124-90137-10230 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System Date: 4/16/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90137-10230
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-30972-68

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: HQ
TO: NO
TITLE:
DATE: 09/23/1960
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS: CIA LIAISON MATERIAL, PETROS MOUTSOS
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: MEMO

NW 50953 DocId:32337464 Page 1

SAC, New Orleans 9/23/60

TO: Director, FBI (105-30972)

FROM: PEG-5

RE: PETROS MOUTSOS
MISCELLANEOUS INFORMATION CONCERNING (NATIONALITIES INTELLIGENCE)

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO RELEASE OF INFORMATION IN THIS DOCUMENT.

The captioned individual was utilized by CIA as an informant in the communist-dominated Greek Maritime Organization (GENO). During the past year his usefulness to CIA has practically expired, primarily because of the subject's desire to remove himself from the GENO atmosphere.

On September 13, 1960, CIA advised that the subject is currently a crew member of the SS "Radnor," which is scheduled to dock at New Orleans within the next two weeks. CIA has had clandestine meetings with Moutsos and is endeavoring to work out an arrangement whereby he can travel to Cuba and serve as a source of information. In order to arrange for such travel, it will be necessary for Moutsos to jump ship in New Orleans. This will be done with the approval of INS. CIA will then hold conferences with Moutsos and the subject will thereupon proceed to Havana under a cover being established for him.

Prior to leaving for Havana, Moutsos will endeavor to establish contact with his wife, Angela Boyer, who has a communist background. This marriage was actually promoted in order to improve subject's position in the GENO. The subject has been separated from his wife for a lengthy period although she has indicated she desires to live with the subject again. CIA hopes that a resumption of relations between the two will help Moutsos in establishing worthwhile contacts in communist circles in Cuba.

This is being furnished for your information and under no circumstances should any of this data be furnished to anyone outside the Bureau. Any pertinent information received concerning the subject should, of course, be promptly furnished to the Bureau.

1 - New York (105-15613)
1 - Baltimore (134-571)
1 - 100-398547 (Angela Boyer)

Tolson
Mohr
Parsons
Belmont
Callahan
DeLoach
Malone
McGuire
Rosen
Tamm
Trotter
W.C. Sullivan
Tele. Room
Ingram
Gandy

MAILED SEP 23 1960

SEP 2 9 1960

MAIL ROOM
TELETYPE UNIT
COMM-FBI

CLASSIFIED BY 5648 SW/KS)
DECLASSIFY ON: 25X1/23K /12-10-97

Classified by 9103rdd/gel
Declassify on: DAD 241,326 (JEN) 8/9/93

(5668 SD/GUL-3/29/95-off)

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN 100-398547

NW 50953 DocId:32337464 Page 2
