2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10291-10040
RECORD SERIES: HO
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-12-207-3354

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: CIA
TO:
TITLE:

DATE: 10/22/1976
PAGES: 5
SUBJECT: OBA, AKA, ARREST, TRA, FALSE PASSPORT, SUSP, ASSA, PLOT, POLIT, CHILE
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
ORIGINAL CLASSIFICATION: Secret
NEW CLASSIFICATION:
REVIEW DATE: 07/07/1998 UPDATE DATE:
STATUS Redact
RESTRICTIONS: JFK Act 6 (1)(B)
COMMENTS: INC ADMIN PAGE

NW 50953 DocId: 32306900 Page 1

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
DIRECTORATE OF OPERATIONS

Intelligence Information Cable
WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

STATE/INR JCS/MC (DIA) CIA/NMCC SWS NSA TREAS NSC/S SDO NIO CRS
(SY/I/PIB) SS/ID FBI/SECUR
PRIORITY
IN 077749
PAGE 1 OF 4 PAGES
Classified by Recorded Reporting Officer. Exempt from General Declassification Schedule of E.O. 11652 Exemption
Category 5B Impossible to Determine Date of Automatic Declassification.
FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

REPORT CLASS SECRET--WARNING NOTICE--SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE
SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN
NATIONALS--NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/
CONSULTANTS
COUNTRY: CHILE
DOI: MID-APRIL TO MID-OCTOBER 1976
SUBJECT: CHILEAN GOVERNMENT INFORMATION ON CUBAN EXILE

LEADERS ORLANDO BOSCH AND ROLANDO OTERO
CHILE, SANTIAGO (21 OCTOBER 1976) FIELD NO. [HOS 10]
SOURCE: SEE BELOW.

SOURCE OF PARAGRAPHS 3-4: A MEDIUM LEVEL GOVERNMENT
OFFICIAL WITH GOOD ACCESS TO OFFICIALS OF THE MINISTRY OF
FOREIGN AFFAIRS. HIS REPORTING IS FAIRLY RELIABLE.

2. (FIELD COMMENT: SANTIAGO REMESSY TELEGRAM 10107 OF
19 OCTOBER 1976 REPORTED THAT CHILEAN MINISTRY OF FOREIGN
AFFAIRS HAD BEEN KEEPING AN EYE ON THE ACTIVITIES OF CUBAN
EXILE LEADER ORLANDO BOSCH, AND WAS NOW REVIEWING ALL
ITS INFORMATION, PRESUMABLY IN LIGHT OF HIS RECENT ARREST IN
VENEZUELA.)

3. ON 15 OCTOBER, FOREIGN MINISTRY OFFICIALS ASSEMBLED

SECRET

NW 50953 DocId: 32306900 Page 2

IN 077749
TDFIRDB-315/1057b-7
WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED PAGE 2 OF 4 PAGES
SECRET FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

4. A FILE ON BOSCH AT THE REQUEST OF ADMIRAL PATRICIO
ARVAJAL, MINISTER OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS. THE FILE
CONSISTS MAINLY OF EXCHANGES OF CORRESPONDENCE BETWEEN THE
CHILEAN EMBASSY IN SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA, AND THE FOREIGN
MINISTRY CONCERNING BOSCH'S ARREST IN SAN JOSE IN MARCH 1976,
AND THE FACT THAT HE HAD CHILEAN IDENTITY DOCUMENTS IN HIS
POSSESSION.

5. THE DOCUMENTS INCLUDED A BIRTH CERTIFICATE, IDENTITY
CARD, TAX IDENTIFICATION CARD AND PASSPORT, ALL IN THE NAME
OF RICARDO RAMONTSESA VAN PACERUTI. THE PASSPORT WAS
ISSUED IN CHILE IN 1966, AND HAD NEVER BEEN RENEWED. (SOURCE
COMMENT: CHILEAN PASSPORTS NORMALLY REQUIRE RENEWAL EVERY
TWO YEARS.) THE PASSPORT CONTAINED ONE CHILEAN EXIT STAMP,
DATED 1966, AND NO INDICATION THAT IT HAD SUBSEQUENTLY BEEN
USED TO ENTER OR EXIT CHILE. IT CONTAINED MANY EXIT AND ENTRY
STAMPS. INDICATING EXTENSIVE TRAVEL BY ITS BEARER IN CENTRAL
AMERICA AND PANAMA, BETWEEN 1966 AND MARCH 1976. THE PASSPORT
AND OTHER DOCUMENTATION WAS SHOWN TO CHILEAN EMBASSY OFFICIALS
IN SAN JOSE BY COSTA RICAN OFFICIALS; HOWEVER, THE COSTA
RICANS DID NOT GIVE THE DOCUMENTS TO THE EMBASSY OFFICIALS.

SECRET

NW 50953 DocId: 32306900 Page 3

IN 077749
TOFIRDB-315/1057b-7
WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED PAGE 3 OF 4 PAGES
SECRET FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

6. SOURCE OF PARAGRAPHS 6-7: AN OFFICIAL CHILEAN SERVICE.
7. IN MID-APRIL 1976, THE DIRECTORATE OF NATIONAL
INTELLIGENCE (DINA) RECEIVED INFORMATION THAT BOSCH HAD JUST
ARRIVED IN CHILE WITH A CONTRACT TO ASSASSINATE A HIGH LEVEL
CHILEAN GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL (UNIDENTIFIED). ACCORDING TO
DINA, BOSCH EVADED AN ARREST ACTION ON 10 APRIL, ESCAPING
BY A MATTER OF MINUTES BUT LEAVING BEHIND ALL HIS CLOTHES
AND TWO PASSPORTS.

8. ON 29 APRIL, DINA, HOWEVER, SUCCESSFULLY APPREHENDED
ROLANDO OTERO HERNANDEZ, AN ASSOCIATE OF BOSCH, WHO ALONG
WITH THE LATTER WAS WANTED AS A FEDERAL FUGITIVE IN THE UNITED
STATES. IN EARLY MAY, DINA INFORMED THE FEDERAL BUREAU OF
INVESTIGATION (FBI) OF OTERO'S ARREST, AND SUBSEQUENTLY
TURNED OTERO OVER TO FBI AGENTS FOR RETURN AND PROCESSING IN
THE UNITED STATES. (FIELD COMMENT: [HVC 7328 (TDFIRDB-315/
01696-76) FROM AN UNTESTED SOURCE WITH ACCESS TO CUBAN
EXILES REPORTED THAT OTERO WAS PLANNING TO ASSASSINATE
CHILEAN MARXIST EXTREMIST, ANDRES PASCAL ALLENDE, AND
THAT HE WAS WORKING UNDER THE SPONSORSHIP OF THE CHILEAN
GOVERNMENT. DINA'S ARREST AND DEPORTATION TO THE U.S. OF

SECRET

NW 50953 DocId: 32306900 Page 4

IN 077749
TDFIR DB-315/1057b-7
WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED PAGE 4 OF 4 PAGES
SECRET FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

9. OTERO RAISES QUESTIONS ABOUT THE ALLEGATION OF CHILEAN
GOVERNMENT SPONSORSHIP OF OTERO AND HIS GROUP.)

10. FIELD DISSEM: EMBASSY AT SANTIAGO; SENT TO CARACAS.
REPORT CLASS SECRET--WARNING NOTICE--SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE
SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN
NATIONALS--NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/
CONSULTANTS
CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER.
XGDS-1, 2.

ADVANCE COPY TRANSMITTED TO STATE DIA ARMY NAVY AIR JCS SWS NSA SS/ID FBI TREAS
CIA/OPSCEN.

NW 50953 DocId: 32306900 Page 5
SECRET
