124-10274-10011 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 | 62-116395

Mr. J. A. Mintz

(Mr. J. B. Hotis)

Mr. W. R. Wannall

June 23, 1975

Mr. W. O. Cregar

Mr. R. L. Moore

UNITED STATES SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE (SSC)
TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS
WITH RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

RE: FURTHER DOCUMENTS PERTAINING TO THE
FBI AND DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
ORGANIZATION, STRUCTURE, AND JURISDICTION

Reference is made to S3C letter dated May 14, 1975, with attached appendices, requesting certain documents and other information from the FBI.

Pursuant to your request in Appendix B, Items 13 and 14, for all memoranda and other materials reflecting meetings and contacts during 1971 between the President and the Director of the FBI and between officials of the FBI and officials of the Department of State on the subject of "legal attache," enclosed are copies of 23 documents.

Enclosures (23)

1 - The Attorney General

REM:mam

ORIGINAL AND ONE COPY TO AG

The Senate Committee request is understood to be a request for contacts with reference to the legal attaches as a group and therefore contacts between officials of the FBI and officials of the State Department pertaining to any one particular legal attache, such as Tel Aviv, have not been included.

In the enclosures there is reference to State "dragging its feet," and information that dealings with the State Department the fact that collection of political intelligence was the primary purpose for the expansion of legal attaches was concealed from the State Department. The enclosures also contain information that there are a large number of CIA employees assigned to the U. S. Embassy at Kuala Lumpur.

NOTE: CONTINUED PAGE TWO

CONFIDENTIAL MATERIAL ATTACHED

GPO 1975 O-568-920
