124-90137-10067
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90137-10067
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-30972-68
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: PAPICH
TO: LALLIER
TITLE:
DATE: 09/14/1960
PAGES: 2

Document Information
SUBJECTS: CIA LIAISON MATERIAL, PETROS MOUTSOS
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: MEMO
Date: 4/16/201

NW 50953 DocId:32337301 Page 1

---

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum

TO: Mr. L'Allier
FROM: S. J. Papich
SUBJECT: PETROS MOUTSOS
INTERNAL SECURITY - GREECE AND CUBA
DATE: September 14, 1960

GIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR, RELEASE OF INFORMATION IN THIS DOCUMENT.

Distribution:
Tolson
Mohr
Parsons
Belmont
Callahan
DeLoach
Malone
McGuire
Rosen
Tamm
Trotter
W.C. Sullivan
Tele. Room
Ingram
Gandy

The subject was [utilized by Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) as an informant] in the communist-dominated Greek Maritimes Organization, OENO. His past activities have been the subject of correspondence between us and CIA. During the past year, his usefulness to CIA had practically expired, primarily because of the subject's desire to remove himself from the OENO atmosphere.

On September 13, 1960, Mrs. Jane Roman, CIA, advised that the subject is currently a crew member of the SS Radnor, which is scheduled to dock at New Orleans within the next two weeks. [CIA has had clandestine meetings with Moutos and is now endeavoring to work out an arrangement whereby he can travel to Cuba and can serve as a source of information in that country.] In order to arrange for such travel, it will be necessary for Moutos to jump ship at New Orleans. This will be done with the approval [of Immigration and Naturalization Service. CIA will then hold conferences with Moutos and] subject will thereupon proceed to Havana under a cover being established for him.

Prior to leaving for Havana, Moutos will endeavor to have contact with his wife, Angela Boyer, who is well known to us and who has a communist background. His marriage to Boyer [was actually promoted in order to improve his position in OENO]. He has been separated from his wife for a lengthy period although she has indicated that she desires to live with him again. [CIA hopes that a resumption of relations between the two will help] Moutos in establishing worthwhile contacts in communist circles in Cuba.

SJP:bas

1 - Mr. Donahoe
1 - Liaison
1 - Mr. Papich

Classified by 5668 SLDKSR-
Declassify on: 25X

CLASSIFIED BY 5668/d/gel
EX- 105
REC-505-30972-68
Declassify: OAD 11,356
(5668 SG-3/24/95-JFK)
LET: New Orleans
9/23/60
UHN:
1- Baltimore
1- NYO
7 SEP 27 1960
12-10-97

SECRET (JFK)

NW 50953 DocId: 32337301 Page 2
