124-10369-10022 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |
JFK Assassination System Date: 4/15/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10369-10022
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: 62-117290-ADMIN FOLDER-Y8

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: JONES
TO: WICK
TITLE:
DATE: 12/28/1966
PAGES: 322

SUBJECTS: HSCA ADMINISTRATIVE FOLDER, LEE HARVEY OSWALD
VOLUME XII
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/23/1999
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: INC FOLDER, MEMO, A/T, TTY, LET, NOTES, LHM, PRESS RELEASES, TESTIMONY, NEWS
ARTICLES, TRANSLATION
VOL 19
HW 50953 DocId:32319388 Page 1

SECRET

1-Mr. Mohr
1-Mr. Sullivan
1-Mr. Callahan
1-Mr. Conrad
SAC, WFO ((100-18032)) (S) 11/22/66
Director, FBI ((100-357510)) (S) 

1-Mr. Baker
1-Mr. Allen

OFFICE OF THE SOVIET MILITARY ATTACHE
R; CLOSED CIRCUIT TELEVISION

Classified by SP6BJA/GEL
Declassify on 12/5/84
#211,326
ReBuairtel 10/25/66 reflecting installation authorization. (S)(U)

This letter is for information and record purposes.

In response to your request, a new closed-circuit television system was recently installed in connection with the captioned case. The system consists of a remotely controlled video camera, zoom lens and pan-tilt head mounted in a special disguise. A 17-inch monitor is located nearby and provides a view of the pertinent scene. Monitor personnel can remotely change the focal length, focus, aperture and field of view of the lens. Certain compensation for changing light conditions can also be made at the monitoring site. (S)

Attached is a technical addendum listing the equipment installed together with special circuit and cable data to assist WPO personnel in the maintenance of the equipment. Appropriate inventory changes should be made (S)(U)

INCLOSURE

Enclosures (2)

Tolson
DeLoach
Mohr
Wick
Casper
Callahan
Conrad
Felt
Gale
Rosen
Sullivan

Room
Files
MAIL ROOM
TELETYPE UNIT

NOV 30 1966
DEC 5 1966
HW 50953 DocId:32319388 Page 2

Mr. D. J. Brennan, Jr. 8/22/66
S. J. Papich

JOACHIM JOESTEN
INTERNAL SECURITY - RUSSIA

On 8/19/66, Cal Tenney, Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), advised that the Swiss Federal Police received a letter from the subject, postmarked Milan, Italy, on 8/13/66, which read as follows:

"The final accounting with the Johnson gang is imminent. Each of you who continues to partake in the actions of the Johnson gang or their German officials, the Gehlen gang, or those who disrupt the plans of American patriots against the usurper regime, will shortly pay with their lives. Be it well understood, Greetings."

Tenney advised that this information has been disseminated by CIA to the White House and Secret Service.

ACTION:

The above information is being directed to the attention of the Soviet Section.

Mr. Branigan
Liaison
Mr. Papich

SJP:rab

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT. 02/22/99
AS SANITIZED

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 Sup/que
DECLASSIFY ON: 25X (1)
HW 50953 DocId:32319388 Page 3
