```markdown
MEMORANDUM FOR: Executive Director/Comptroller

VIA: Acting Deputy Director for Plans

SUBJECT: Agency Support to the U.S. Secret Service (USSS) for National Democratic (10-14 July 1972) and National Republican (21-24 August 1972) Conventions

1. This memorandum is for the information of the Executive Director/Comptroller.

2. Authorization for CIA support to the U.S. Secret Service for the Democratic and Republican National Conventions is contained in a memorandum of 7 April 1972 from Chief, CI Staff to the DCI which was concurred in by the AD/UP and approved by the DCI on 10 April 1972 (copy attached).

3. On 13 April 1972 the [C/OS, W/Miami] met with the Miami USSS representative and Mr. Mastrovito of USSS Headquarters to discuss preliminary planning for Station support to the USSS prior to and during subject conventions. On 17 April 1972 the C/W/000 and C/CI/LSN met with Mr. Mastrovito at Headquarters to implement the preliminary planning agreed upon in Miami and to determine the extent of Headquarters support required by the USSS.

4. The basic agreement mutually concurred in by the USSS and Headquarters representatives provided that:

a. [Station WH/Miami] would conduct name traces on all Cubans of interest to the USSS.

b. CIA Headquarters would conduct name traces on all other foreign born persons of interest to the USSS.

c. CIA would keep the USSS informed of any events in the Caribbean and Latin American areas that would have any bearing on the USSS protective mission during the convention periods. This would include briefings on Cuba and Cuban policies toward the United States and on activities of Cuban intelligence operations which could affect the security of the conventions.

d. Coverage of Latin American exile groups in the United States would be the responsibility of the FBI since CIA had ceased the extensive coverage formerly targeted against these groups since it was now considered an internal security function.

5. On 27 April 1972 a meeting was held at a buffer office of [Station W/Miami] with the USSS Chief of Communications, Station personnel and a Headquarters representative. It was agreed that name traces would be handled by Miami security Field office courier from the USSS tower office until the USSS established communications links from their command post in convention center, at which time trace requests would be sent from the command post to USSS headquarters and relayed to CIA Headquarters. Cuban name traces are relayed to [Station Miami] by the Signal Center and non-Cuban traces are conducted by [CI/SO]. Replies to USSS requests on non-Cubans are coordinated with [CI/SO].

6. [Station W/Miami] has arranged the rental of a safehouse [about five minutes from convention center] which will provide a secure and nearby meeting site for USSS and Agency personnel. This safehouse will be available just prior to and during both conventions. A Headquarters officer will [travel] to [Miami] prior to the conventions and remain until the conventions adjourn to assist the Station in providing the support described in paragraph four above.

7. [Station W/Miami] is in daily contact with the USSS in Miami, utilizing [buffer office] as a meeting site when necessary. The location of [Station W/Miami] has not been revealed to the USSS. [Station is located some distance from buffer office.] Additionally, the [Miami Security Field Office] maintains normal liaison with the local USSS Miami unit.

8. The Station understands that no personnel will be present at the convention hall, that they will not provide any equipment unique to the Agency, nor will it provide the use of any other facilities other than the safehouse described in paragraph six.

SUBJECT: Request for Information on Sensitive Activities

You will recall that in Fiscal Years 1971 and 1972, I believe, Agency funds were made available to the FBI. These funds may still be possibly held in a special account for that use. This is one of the areas where TSD has been very much involved. Chuck Briggs would have the details as this was handled through the Executive Director's office and of course Angleton would have additional information.

Signed,

Chief
Missions and Programs Staff

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Operations

SUBJECT: Areas of Possible Embarrassment to the Agency

1. Sometime in the spring or early summer of 1971, Mr. John Dean levied the requirement on the Agency for information relating to the Investors Overseas Service (IOS). The original request was non-specific but it gradually emerged that Dean was concerned with the possible adverse publicity that might develop regarding the President's nephew, who was employed by IOS.

2. There were multiple channels from the White House to the Agency on this subject:

a. Presumably Haldeman and/or Ehrlichman to Director Helms.

b. Someone (unnamed) in the White House to the DDCI, General Cushman (see attached telephone conversation). Note that Ehrlichman is mentioned, and

c. John Dean to the CI Staff. These various channels were sorted out in time and six reports were passed by the CI Staff to Mr. Fred Fielding for Mr. John Dean.

3. The telephone call of General Cushman's is of interest since it gives the flavor of White House concern. It took several days to uncover the fact that the White House interest centered on the involvement of the President's nephew with IOS and possible adverse publicity. The reports submitted to Dean's office were routine in nature and were coordinated with the DCI. After a few months, interest in this subject died down and we did not pursue it further.

4. Please return the attachments when they have served your purpose.

5. I also include a short note on the Intelligence Evaluation [IES] Committee and Staff prepared by [Richard Ober]. The original meetings were held in the office of John Dean at the White House and the principal sparkplug for this group activity was the then Assistant Attorney General for Internal Security, Robert Mardian and then later his assistant, William Olsen. It is noted that Mr. Mardian is now appearing before the Grand Jury and it is always possible that he might draw in the Agency.

6. Before appointing [Ober] to the IES Staff as the Agency representative, I had attended various inter-agency meetings presided over by Mardian. I expressed the view to Director Helms that Mardian would require very careful handling due to his inexperience. Furthermore, Mardian was deeply involved in the split between Bill Sullivan and Mr. Hoover. On a confidential basis one or two senior FBI officials stated that Sullivan was secretly passing files to Mardian without Mr. Hoover's permission. This was one of the important reasons why Sullivan was dismissed from the Bureau.

James Angleton
Chief, Counter Intelligence Staff

Attachments (5)

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Operations

SUBJECT: Counter Intelligence Staff, [Police Group] Activities

1. Counter Intelligence Staff, [Police Group (CI/PG)] is responsible for Staff coordination within the Office of the Deputy Director for Operations for activities and programs involving assistance to foreign police/security forces for the purpose of exploiting such activities and programs for intelligence purposes.

2. CI [PG] maintains liaison with the Office of Public Safety, Agency for International Development (OPS/AID) and its training facility, the International Police Academy (IPA). CI also administers and supervises Project IDEN-171 and its training proprietary facility, IDEN-172. In addition, CI[PG] coordinates a joint OPS/ATD Technical Services Division, Central Intelligence Agency (TSD/CIA) Technical Investigations Course. CI[PG] provides guidance and counsel to the Area Divisions in matters pertaining to [police/security functions and activities.] Specific details of these functions are as follows:

LIAISON WITH OPS/AID

CI[PG] liaison with OPS/AID and IPA is conducted on a daily basis and consists principally of:

A. exchange of information on IPA participants, some of whom later attend IDEN-172 courses and who are of interest to Agency components,

B. arranging for inclusion of Agency sponsored participants in IPA/OPS/AID training programs,

C. arranging for IPA/OPS/AID briefings and tours for [foreign police/security representatives sponsored] by CIA Area Divisions,

D. obtaining biographic and assessment data on IPA/OPS/AID trainees,

E. providing general information pertaining to police/security organizations, activities, equipment, and personalities requested by Agency operating components,

F. coordinating the Agency's participation in the Technical Investigations Course designed to familiarize the trainees with the technique required to properly investigate terrorist activities wherein explosives have been utilized,

G. obtaining OPS/AID cover for CIA personnel to serve abroad. At one time as many as 50 CIA employees were covered in Latin America, the Far East and Africa. This total has been reduced during the past several years to 19 serving in Thailand,

H. arranging contact between Desk officers and OPS/AID sponsored participants.

PROJECT IDEN-171

PROPRIETARY IDEN-172

IDEN-172 Training Academy is a commercial enterprise. It was incorporated under the laws of the State of Maryland in 1952 and conducts its business in the District of Colombia. It is engaged principally in training foreign police/security personnel under an overt contract with OPS/AID, and selling police/security equipment to foreign police/security personnel and organizations. IDEN-172 also provides special training programs and briefings to foreign police/security personnel of interest to Agency operating divisions. It provides biographic and assessment data on trainees to country desks. Recently IDEN-172 has acquired the capability of providing training to foreign police/security personnel in VIP protective security for Chiefs of State.

* CIA personnel under this cover will not be replaced as such and all will be phased out by June 1974.

COMMENT

CI/PG does not maintain direct contact or liaison with any law enforcement organization, local or federal, at home or abroad. When the need arises, such contact is sometimes made on our behalf by OPS/AID or IDEN-172 without divulging Agency interest. OPS/AID has such contacts at home and abroad because of the nature of its activities (training of foreign police/security personnel at home and abroad), and its Public Safety programs around the world. IDEN-172 has such contacts at home - local and federal level - because its personnel are personally acquainted with law enforcement officers throughout the United States. Members of the IDEN-172 staff (not identified as CIA) have appeared as guest lecturers at such federal institutions as the U.S. Park Police, IPA, the U.S. Secret Service, and the U.S. Treasury Enforcement Division.

3. In addition to the liaison mentioned in the previous paragraph, [the Agency maintains liaison in varying degrees with foreign police/security organizations through its field stations.] The existence and extent thereof, however, is a decision to be made by the Area Division, and is not the responsibility of CI/PG.

4. The CIA station as a member of the Country Team in Montevideo, Uruguay, may have had some contact with Dan Mitrione, who was murdered by the Tupanaros. Dan Mitrione, an experienced and respected law enforcement officer, was a bona fide OPS/AID officer assigned to the AID mission in Uruguay, and was never a CIA employee or agent.

James Angleton
Chief, Counter Intelligence Staff

SUBJECT: The MHCHAOS Program

1. The MHCHAOS program is a worldwide program for clandestine collection abroad of information on foreign efforts to support/encourage/exploit/manipulate domestic U.S. extremism, especially by Cuba, Communist China, North Vietnam, the Soviet Union, North Korea and the Arab fedayeen.

2. The MHCHAOS program has not and is not conducting efforts domestically for internal domestic collection purposes. Agency efforts are foreign. Foreign-oriented activity in the United States has been of two types:

a. Selected FBI domestic sources who travel abroad in connection with their extremist activity and/or affiliations to make contact with hostile foreign powers or with foreign extremist groups have been briefed and debriefed by Headquarters officers. The briefing has included appropriate operational guidance, including defensive advice.

b. Americans with existing extremist credentials have been assessed, recruited, tested and dispatched abroad for PCS assignments as contract agents, primarily sources offered for such use by the FBI. When abroad they collect information responsive to MHCHAOS program requirements, as well as other Agency requirements. They are thus used primarily for targeting against Cubans, Chinese Communists, the North Vietnamese, etc., as their background and their particular access permits. It should be noted that the MPTROIKA aspect of the MPLODESTAR project of the East Asia Division is similar to the MHCHAOS PROGRAM.

3. As indicated earlier, MHCHAOS is a foreign program, conducted overseas, except for the limited activity described above. The program is and has been managed so as to achieve the maximum feasible utilization of existing resources of the Operations Directorate. No assets

SECRET, CORPORATE COVER

1. Central Cover Staff (CCS) is responsible for the placement of Agency operational personnel under the cover of bona fide U.S. companies abroad and in the U.S. This process involves the selection of companies; research on their locations and key personnel; clearances; contacts with companies to solicit cooperation with the Agency; arrangements for integration of Agency personnel into the companies, including letters of understanding; funding of salaries, allowances and expenses; and, continuous monitoring of each integrated case throughout the course of the cover use. The overall objective is to match the individual being placed, the company, and the location, in a manner that will ensure achievement of the Agency purpose and protection of the company integrity.

2. Currently, there are 191 integrees for whom cover is provided by 140 companies; 179 integrees are located in 47 foreign countries and 12 are located in the United States. To maintain this placement level, CCS personnel are researching and monitoring approximately 250 to 300 companies at any given time.

3. To minimize the adverse consequences to a cooperating company, and to preserve the Agency's operational equity in the event of exposure of an individual under cover, it has been established policy that no more than two individuals would be furnished cover by the same company. At the present time this ratio is confined to approximately 25% of the total number of companies now being used and efforts are underway to effect further reductions toward the goal of one individual per company.

4. In addition to the primary corporate cover function described in paragraph 1. above, CCS maintains continuing contact with two U.S. car rental firms and two U.S. credit card firms for the purpose of obtaining backstopped credit cards in alias for operational use in the United States and abroad by Agency personnel. 42 such cards are now being used by 34 individuals.

SECRET, DEVISED FACILITIES COVER

1. Central Cover Staff (CCS) maintains 311 back-stopped notional facilities which were created to provide cover for Agency personnel in the United States and abroad and to provide an attributable source for Agency funds used in operations and requiring concealment of Agency or U.S. Government interest. The facilities comprise 43 corporations providing personal status cover, payrolling and tax attribution sources, and other miscellaneous support such as title to property, funding, etc.; 61 sole-proprietorships providing status and operational cover, including payrolling and tax attribution; and 207 non-registered companies providing support for high risk operational requirements, agents abroad, corporate reimbursements, and proprietary funding.

2. 224 Agency personnel engaged in operational activities are payrolled by the facilities, an essential procedure permitting the reporting of Agency salaries without documenting the Agency as the source.

3. The facilities provide a capability for passing Agency funds to 30 Agency proprietaries and 97 bona fide companies on a continuing basis. 225 bank accounts located in 36 banks throughout the United States provide the mechanisms for transmittal of these funds.

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY 1962 EDITION

MEMORANDUM

TO: Mr. J. Cochran, Jr. Assoc. Dir.
Mr. R. J. Gallagher Dep. AD Adm.
Mr. W. R. Wannall Dep. AD Inv.
Mr. W. O. Cregar Asst. Dir.
Mr. W. A. Branigan Admin.
Mr. A. B. Fulton Comp. Syst.
Mr. J. G. Deegan Ext. Affairs
Mr. R. L. Shackelford Files & Com.
Mr. F. S. Putman Gon. Inv.
Mr. J. W. Redfield Ident.
Mr. T. J. McNiff Inspection

FROM: Mr. W. R. Wannall

SUBJECT: SENSTUDY 75

DATE: July 24, 1975

My memorandum dated 7/23/75 captioned as above advised you that this Bureau had received from Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) 190 pages extracted from a 693-page document prepared by CIA citing instances wherein CIA believed some of its activities may have exceeded its legal mandate. Some of the CIA activities cited in this document include references to Bureau operations of an extremely sensitive nature, and it was also noted that the Senate Select Committee has had access to this document. It was recommended that pertinent pages extracted from the CIA document be routed to the respective Bureau Division and/or Intelligence Division Section believed to have an interest in the material contained therein for the purpose of fully identifying the subject matter and making an assessment as to whether any compromise to this Bureau's operation is involved.

This is to advise that the following pages from the document were furnished to the following Divisions and/or Sections of the Intelligence Division on the morning of 7/24/75 for the purpose of review, assessment, and recommendations, if any:

General Investigative Division - Pages 107, 108, 111, 149-151, 155, 156, 158-161, 178, 180, 181, 296, 298, 301, 353 and 354

Laboratory Division - Pages 65-67, 113, 118, 119, 182, 202, 221, 222, and 234, (pages 238-240 and 248 were furnished for information purposes as these pages contained information concerning techniques used and/or developed by CIA which may be of interest).

Intelligence Division

Section CI-1 - Pages 23, 24, 28, 29, 70, 72, 73, 77, 136, 140-142, 298, 329, 582, 615, and 628.

TJM:ekw (12) CONTINUED - OVER

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall
RE: SENSTUDY 75
62-116395

Section CI-2
Pages 30 and 329

Section CI-3
Pages 26, 59-61, 282, 290, 292, 295, 310, 334, 361-363, 368, 371, 373, 376-379, 384, 385, 458, 468-470, 591-593, and 615.

Section IS-1
Pages 188, 189, 283, 330

Section IS-2
Pages 29, 30, 171, 190, 191, 193, 194, 197, 198, 203, 330, and 482.

Section IS-3
Pages 521 and 549

Recipients of above pages were requested to respond to above request by memorandum captioned as above to reach the Senstudy Project, Room 4063 JEH by the afternoon of 7/28/75.

ACTION: None. You will be advised of results of above requested assessment.

Existence of the 693-page CIA document and the information contained therein should be closely guarded and disclosed only on a need-to-know basis.

[PROJECT MOCKINGBIRD]

[Project Mockingbird] a telephone intercept activity, was conducted between 12 March 1963 and 15 June 1963, and targeted two Washington-based newsmen who, at the time, had been publishing news articles based on, and frequently quoting, classified materials of this Agency and others, including Top Secret and Special Intelligence.

Telephone intercept connections were installed at the newsmen's office and at each of their homes, for a total of 3. The connections were established with the assistance of a telephone company official who responded to a personal request by the Director of Security, Col. Sheffield Edwards. Col. Edwards' authority for the activity was Mr. John A. McCone, Director of Central Intelligence. The latter conducted the activity in coordination with the Attorney General (Mr. Robert Kennedy), the Secretary of Defense (Mr. Robert McNamara), and the Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency (Gen. Joseph Carroll). In addition to Office of Security personnel directly involved in the intercepts and research of materials acquired therefrom, only 3 other Agency officials are on record as witting of the activity: the Deputy Director of Central Intelligence (General Marshall S. Carter), the Inspector General (Lyman Kirkpatrick) and the General Counsel (Mr. Lawrence Houston).

The intercept activity was particularly productive in identifying contacts of the newsmen, their method of operation and many of their sources of information. For example, it was determined that during the period they received data from 13 newsmen, 12 of whom were identified; 12 senators and 6 members of Congress, all identified; 21 Congressional staff members, of whom 11 were identified; 16 government employees, including a staff member of the White House, members of the Vice President's office, an Assistant Attorney General, and other well-placed individuals. A number of other sources were partially or tentatively identified, but the short span of the activity precluded positive identification. It was observed that through these contacts the newsmen actually received more classified and official data than they could use, and passed some of the stories to other newsmen for release, establishing that many "leaks" appearing under other by-lines were actually from the sources of the target newsmen.

Since the termination of Project Mockingbird, those materials related to it which were retained, have been maintained under strict security access of two Office of Security professionals.

ENCLOSURE

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES
AND METHODS INVOLVED

SUBJECT: [Soviet Defector]

A Soviet defector defected to a representative of this Agency in 1964. The responsibility for his exploitation was assigned to the then SR Division of the Clandestine Service and he was brought to this country. After initial interrogation by representatives of the SR Division, he was moved to a safehouse in Maryland, where he was confined and interrogated until 13 August 1965 when he was moved to a specially constructed "jail" in a remote wooded area at [ISOLATION]. The SR Division was convinced that he was a dispatched agent but even after a long period of hostile interrogation was unable to prove their contention and he was confined at [ISOLATION] in an effort to convince him to "confess."

This Office together with the Office of General Counsel became increasingly concerned with the illegality of the Agency's position in handling a defector, under these conditions for such a long period of time. Strong representations were made to the Director [(Mr. Helms)] by this Office, the Office of General Counsel, and the Legislative Liaison Counsel, and on 27 October 1967, the responsibility for his further handling was transferred to the Office of Security under the direction of the Deputy Director of Central Intelligence, then Admiral [Rufus Taylor].

The Soviet defector was moved to a comfortable safehouse in the Washington area and was interviewed under friendly, sympathetic conditions by his Security Case Officer, Mr. [Bruce Solie] for more than a year. It soon became apparent that the Soviet defector was bona fide and he was moved to more comfortable surroundings with considerable freedom of independent movement and has continued to cooperate fully with the Federal Bureau of Investigation and this Office since that time. He has proven to be the most

valuable and economical defector this Agency has ever had and leads which were ignored by the SR Division were explored and have resulted in the arrest and prosecution of Soviet recruited agents in several countries throughout the world. He currently is living under an alias; secured a divorce from his Russian wife and remarried an American citizen. He is happy, relaxed, and appreciative of the treatment accorded him and states "while I regret my years of incarceration, I have no bitterness and now understand how it could happen."

SUBJECT: SURVEILLANCES

A. SIESTA

During the periods 1-20 February, 12 April-7 May, and 9-20 August 1971, a surveillance was conducted of Miss Deborah Fitzgerald, a former staff employee, and Orlando Toro Nunez, a Cuban national with whom Miss Fitzgerald had become professionally and emotionally involved. Surveillance was predicated upon information that Miss Fitzgerald had been seeking from employees information in Information Processing Division files, and that employees were visiting a photographic studio operated by Miss Fitzgerald and Nunez in Fairfax City, Virginia. In addition to physical surveillance, one surreptitious entry of the photographic studio was made, and an attempt to enter the apartment of Nunez was aborted because of a door lock problem.

B. PARAGON

Pursuant to a request from the CI Staff, approved by the DCI, surveillances were conducted of Iden 69 and her associates at various times from May to September 1971. Iden 69, an acknowledged Latin American revolutionary, had long been a source of the WH Division and had given information regarding a plot to assassinate or kidnap Vice President Agnew and the DCI. [Surveillances] included coverage of the activities of Iden 69 during two visits to the United States, technical coverage of debriefings of her by WH Division representatives in New York City, and surveillance, including mail coverage, of several American citizens alleged to be part of the plot. Although most of the surveillance occurred in New York City, surveillance of one of the individuals included extensive coverage of a commune in Detroit.

C. CELOTEXT

At the direction of the DCI, a surveillance was conducted of Iden 180 of the Washington Post during the periods 6-9 October, 27 October-10 December 1971 and on 3 January 1972. In addition to physical surveillance, an observation post was maintained in the Statler Hilton Hotel where observation could be maintained of the building housing his office. The surveillance was designed to determine Iden 180 sources of classified information of interest to the Agency which had appeared in a number of his columns.

D. MUDHEN

At the direction of the DCI, surveillance was conducted of Jack Anderson and at various times his "leg men," Britt Hume, Leslie Whitten, and Joseph Spear, from 15 February to 12 April 1972. In addition to the physical surveillance, an observation post was maintained in the Statler Hilton Hotel directly opposite Anderson's office. The purpose of this surveillance was to attempt to determine Anderson's sources for highly classified Agency information appearing in his syndicated columns.

E. BUTANE

At the direction of the DCI, a surveillance was conducted on Victor L. Marchetti from 23 March to 20 April 1972. The purpose of this surveillance was to determine his activities and contacts both with Agency employees and other individuals in regard to his proposed book and published magazine articles exposing Agency operations.

POLICE SUPPORT

A. During 1969, 1970, and 1971, on several occasions, the Intelligence Division of the Metropolitan Police Department was provided a communications system to monitor major anti-Vietnam war demonstrations in the Washington area. This system consisted of a radio receiver and an Agent at the Intelligence Division Headquarters and several automobiles from an Agency Field Office equipped with radio receivers and transmitters and manned by two Agency employees, as well as a representative of the Intelligence Division, Metropolitan Police Department. The benefit to the Agency was that the communications over this system were monitored at the Headquarters Building to provide instant notice of possible actions by the dissidents against Agency installations.

B. During the period from 1968 to 1973, several items of positive audio equipment consisting primarily of clandestine transmitters and touch-tone dial recorders were loaned to the Metropolitan Police Department, Fairfax-County, Virginia, Police Department, Montgomery County, Maryland, Police Department, New York City Police Department, and the San Francisco, California, Police Department.

III. GENERAL SUPPORT

A. SRPOINTER

Since 1953, this office has operated a mail intercept program of incoming and outgoing Russian mail and, at various times, other selective mail at Kennedy Airport in New York City. This operation included not only the photographing of envelopes but also surreptitious opening and photographing of selected items of mail. The bulk of the take involved matters of internal security interest which was disseminated to the Federal Bureau of Investigation. This program is now in a dormant state pending a decision as to whether the operation will be continued or abolished.

B. AELADLE

For several years the Office of Security has provided support to a Russian defector of interest to the CI Staff. This support has consisted of numerous things, including documentation for a change of identity on three occasions.

C. REDFACE I

In July 1970, this office made a surreptitious entry of an office in Silver Spring, Maryland, occupied by a former defector working under contract for the Agency. This involved by-passing a contact and a sonic alarm system, entering a vault, and entering a safe within the vault. The purpose of the operation was to determine whether the individual had any unauthorized classified information in his possession.

D. BUREAU OF NARCOTICS AND DANGEROUS DRUGS

In January 1971, the Director approved a request from the Director, Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs, to provide covert recruitment and security clearance support to BNDD. This has been accomplished through the medium of a proprietary of the Office of Security operating in Falls Church, Virginia. Support includes covert recruitment, investigation, polygraph, medical clearance, and training. It has been divided into three phases: (1) A CI operation to place individuals in BNDD field offices to monitor any illegal activities of other BNDD employees; (2) Recruitment of Chinese or Spanish speaking covert Agents; and (3) Recruitment of an individual used as an Agent by BNDD but actually employed by BNDD, although this fact is known only to the Director and Chief Inspector, BNDD. In this case, arrangements were made for all pay and other employee benefits to come from [CIA] on a reimbursable basis.

E. KITTENS PROJECT

As a result of a request from the Department of State, [approved by the DCI], this office has, since October 1972, provided protection on a 24-hour basis to two sons of a foreign leader who are attending school in the United States. This support includes the financing of the protection and the detail to the Department of State of six armed Agents of this office who are documented as State Department Office of Security employees.

F. MERR-IMAG

From February 1967 to November 1971, an Office of Security proprietary, recruited and handled several Agents for the purpose of covertly monitoring dissident groups in the Washington area considered to be potential threats to Agency personnel and installations. One of these Agents so successfully penetrated one dissident group that the Agent was turned over to the FBI for handling. In addition, during this period, the Office of Security field offices were tasked with collecting available intelligence on dissident groups. All such information was included in a periodic report distributed to appropriate parts of the Agency and to certain outside Government agencies.

G. ANTLERS

Several months ago, at the request of CI Staff, and with the approval of the DDP and the DCI, this office arranged to move a sensitive defector out of a European country via commercial transportation and gain entry into the United States without leaving any trace of his true identity.

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: General: Office of Security Survey

1. At the Director's instruction, and with the concurrence of the then DD/P, the Office of Security developed informants in RID to report on the activities of RID employees on whom security questions had arisen. This program, which included upwards of a dozen informants at its peak, has declined to its present level of three, only one of whom is reporting regularly on matters of current interest.

2. The principal object of Security's interest through this informant is a female who was employed in RID for a number of years until she resigned in 1969. Her resignation coincided with the initiation of a security review on her by the Office of Security, but Security does not know whether the employee was aware of this security review at the time of her resignation.

3. Security's interest in this employee was occasioned by reports that she had developed an increasingly intimate acquaintance with a Cuban national. Reporting by one informant, who was also being developed by the Cuban, suggested that the Cuban might have an intelligence interest in the female. The same informant also subsequently reported that the Cuban had numerous other contacts among clerical and secretarial employees of the Agency. Among these employees is one girl who works in a biographic section in SB Division.

4. Subsequent to her departure from the Agency, the ex-RID employee entered into a common-law marital relationship with the Cuban and joined him as partner in a photographic business. In this capacity she solicited business among CIA employees, especially those requiring passport photos. Recently, she and the Cuban sought to employ Security's informant in this business on a part-time basis.

5. Information on the background of the Cuban is fairly extensive, but it is inconclusive. He is known to have been a member of anti-Castro organizations in this country. There are all reports that his mother was imprisoned in Cuba at one time. There are other episodes in his life that suggest intelligence involvement on his part with some hostile service, but this is not yet definitely established.

6. The Office of Security has had at times a second informant in this case. His reporting has tended to confirm reporting by the principal informant.

7. There is conclusive evidence that the Cuban expressed interest in certain 201 files in the Agency, and there are good grounds for believing that the RID female employee delivered at least one such file to the Cuban while she was still in RID. There is also evidence that the female employee in SB Division has continued in frequent contact with her friend, the ex-RID employee, and the Cuban. On one occasion, she served as intermediary for contact instructions from the Cuban to O/S's principal informant. The informant has no knowledge, however, of any other requirements that may have been levied on or satisfied by the SB employee. Neither does he know of the extent of contacts by this couple with other Agency employees except social contacts.

8. [The Office of Security has been running this operation for over two years, in an effort to obtain conclusive proof of its intelligence nature. CI Staff has been kept informed. The FBI, which was informed of the case at an early stage, has declined to take responsibility for it, on grounds that it concerns CIA's internal security.] As a result, the Office of Security has been inhibited in the actions it can take against the Cuban suspect. On the other hand, Security has not taken any action against Agency employees for fear of compromising the operation.]

9. It would appear to me that the Office of Security has dallied with this case long enough. Apparently unable through positive measures to resolve doubts about the case, O/S has followed the course of watchful waiting, hoping the Cuban would take precipitant action himself that would give us the evidence we seek. In the meantime, our knowledge of the relationship between the Cuban and the several other current Agency employees with whom he is known to have contact continues to be quite limited. Neither the Cuban nor his girlfriend have made any further approaches to Security's informant recently, although he continues to see them socially. Thus, there is slim reason to believe that further waiting will produce a break in the case.

10. There are two courses open to the Office of Security now. It can attempt to have the Agency employees known to be in contact with the Cuban transferred to nonsensitive positions. This might alert the Cuban to our penetration of the operation, particularly since a plausible reason for transfer would be difficult to develop for some of the persons involved. Alternatively, Security could move overtly and charge the Agency employees with violation of the security regulation requiring reporting of contacts with foreign nationals. This would, of course, terminate the Office of Security's operation.

11. One of these courses of action should be chosen promptly. The possibility that the employee in SB Division may be passing information on CIA's Soviet operations is too great to warrant further delay in moving against her. Moreover, it is possible that the Cuban has current productive penetrations of RID. Thus, the risk of damage to the Agency seems clearly to outweigh any possible gains from continuing this CI effort.

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Management & Services

SUBJECT: Press Allegations re Use of Agency Polygraph

1. This memorandum is for your information only and confirms a report I made to you by telephone earlier today.

2. On 22 July 1971, an article was carried on American proposals relative to the SALT talks in The New York Times over the by