157-10014-10006 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |
JFK Assassination System Date: 07/07/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: 157-10014-10006
RECORD SERIES: HEARINGS
AGENCY FILENUMBER: 01-H-08

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: SSCSGO
FROM: ANGLETON, JAMES; MILER, SCOTTY
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 01/22/1976
PAGES: 74
SUBJECTS:
ANGLETON, JAMES
CIA, METHODOLOGY
MILER, SCOTTY
DEFECTORS
FBI
COUNTERINTELLIGENCE
DOCUMENT TYPE: TRANSCRIPT
CLASSIFICATION: Top Secret
RESTRICTIONS: Consulted
CURRENT STATUS: Withhold
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/24/1997
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: Box 1
v9.1
NW 50955 DocId: 32423394 Page 1

Date: 07/31/95
Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: 157-10014-10006
RECORDS SERIES: HEARINGS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 01-H-08

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: SSCSGO
FROM: ANGLETON, JAMES; MILER, SCOTTY
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 01/22/76
PAGES: 74
SUBJECTS: ANGLETON, JAMES
COUNTERINTELLIGENCE
CIA, METHODOLOGY
FBI
MILER, SCOTTY
DEFECTORS
DOCUMENT TYPE: TRANSCRIPT
CLASSIFICATION: TOP SECRET
RESTRICTIONS: REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS: POSTPONED IN FULL
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/24/97
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: Box 1
[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
NW 50955 DocId: 32423394 Page 2

TOP SECRET
ORIGINAL

Report of Proceedings

Hearing held before

Senate Select Committee to Study Governmental
Operations With Respect to Intelligence Activities

Thursday, January 22, 1976

Washington, D. C.

(Stenotype Tape and Waste turned over
to the Committee for destruction)

WARD & PAUL

410 FIRST STREET, S. E.
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20003

(202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

TESTIMONY OF:

James Angleton
--accompanied by--
Scotty Miler

FOREIGN AND MILITARY SUBCOMMITTEE MEETING

Thursday, January 22, 1976

United States Senate,
Select Committee to Study Governmental
Operations with Respect to
Intelligence Activities,
Washington, D. C.

The Committee met, pursuant to notice, at 2:10 o'clock
p.m., in Room S-407, the Capitol, the Honorable Gary Hart
presiding.

Present: Senators Hart of Colorado (presiding), and
Schweiker.

Also present: William G. Miller, Staff Director; and
Joseph diGenova, Charles Kirbow, Jim Johnston, Britt Snider,
Loch Johnson, Elliot Maxwell, Elizabeth Culbreath, Bob Kelley,
Michael Epstein, Rick Inderfurth, Charles Lombard, and Pat Shea,
Professional Staff Members.

410 First Street. S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

Senator Hart of Colorado. Gentlemen, let's go ahead and
be sworn and get under way if you don't mind.
Do you swear the testimony you're about to give will be
the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help
you God?

Mr. Angleton. I do.

Mr. Miler. I do.

Senator Hart of Colorado. Thank you very much.

Mr. Angleton at least has been before us before, and
routinely we remind all witnesses that they preserve all of
their constitutional rights, including the right to counsel,
the right to remain silent and so forth and so on, and to have
a member of the Committee present during all of the testimony.

It is my understanding we have no prepared statements to
start with, so I think I'll just open it up to staff questions
and interject some of my own, and I understand that the general
subject matter to be discussed here today -- and we are interested
in your expertise regarding the question of counterintelligence.

So, we'll just have the staff members start.

TOP SECRET

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

TESTIMONY OF JAMES ANGLETON
ACCOMPANIED BY SCOTTY MILER

Mr. Johnson. I wonder if we could begin by having both
of your gentlemen give us some information on your backgrounds,
beginning with Mr. Angleton.

Mr. Angleton. I entered the OSS in 1943 from the Army,
went into training in Washington and environs and then to
London, and then eventually to Italy, and I took over as
Chief, Counterintelligence in Italy, and eventually took over
as Chief, OSS.

I returned in about '47, '48, and various jobs in both
espionage and counterintelligence. At one time Chief of
Operations and eventually Chief of Counterintelligence, and
that was from about 1954 until 1974.

Mr. Johnson. Mr. Miler?

Mr. Miler. I entered OSS in 1946. I was sent to China.
I was in China until 1949, transferred to Japan, became involved
in intelligence aspects of the Korean War. I served in Thailand,
the Philippines, as I said, China, Japan, Ethiopia. I traveled
extensively, was a station chief abroad, and for the last ten
years I have been in Counterintelligence, first in the
Special Investigations, and subsequently as Chief of Operations
for Mr. Angleton's Counterintelligence Staff.

And when I left the Agency in December of '74, that was
my position.

TOP SECRET

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

Mr. Johnson. So both of you left the CIA in December, 1974.

Since that time we understand there have been some changes
in how counterintelligence is conducted at the CIA.

Could you give us some understanding of those changes?

Mr. Angleton. I would like to defer to Mr. Miler on this,
if I may?

Mr. Miler. Yes.

My understanding is there have been some rather fundamental
and substantive changes which are a continuation, actually,
of changes that were made first in 1973, in July of 1973
when many of the centralized counterintelligence functions were
decentralized and reallocated to different components of the
Directorate of Operations. Such things as agent approvals and
security, operational security reviews for intelligence
collection and covert action operations, the oversight on
intelligence operations, and oversight on counterintelligence
operations in the field were decentralized. Research and
Analysis has been curtailed, and the emphasis on it has changed.

There have been changes in the record procedures.

Mr. Johnson. Could you be more specific on these changes,
for example, in research?

Mr. Miler. In research, the research is now, as I under-
stand it, pretty much on a case by case basis, not in an
overall perception of worldwide or national counterintelligence
problems. There is no -- the application of historical cases.

TOP SECRET

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

historical problems is not being applied, as I understand it,
to current operational efforts or investigative needs. There is
an entirely different philosophy being applied as to what may
be required in terms of understanding the counterintelligence
threat to this nation. There is very little emphasis, if any,
concern with such things as deception and disinformation. There
is little application of analytical and assessment work to the
overall role of foreign intelligence and security services in
political action.

There have been some fundamental changes in operational
philosophies stemming from an application of what is termed
management by objectives as it is being applied in the CIA to
operations, and there is a -- has been a distinct change in
some of the attention which has been previously placed on the
problem of penetration from foreign and particularly hostile
intelligence services into the American community.

And there has been a very, very substantive change in
the perception and the conduct of counterintelligence in that
there has been what is in my view a very serious erosion
of security and compartmentation of operations, and leakage
of information which has not been to the best interests of
a national counterintelligence effort.

Mr. Johnson. So, from going from a rather centralized
apparatus to a decentralized situation, the dangers of penetration
have increased.

TOP SECRET

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

Mr. Miler. The dangers of penetration have increased
significantly, and this extends also to the methods by which
relations with foreign intelligence services are conducted.

Mr. Johnson. But how do you respond to the criticism that
during your tenure and Mr. Angleton's tenure, too tight a
rein was kept on counterintelligence information, and individuals
in the field at the station level failed to get the information
they needed to conduct their counterintelligence operation?

Mr. Miler. I would have to respond to that, Mr. Johnson,
and I could only respond to it in the context of specifics.
To my knowledge, and as practiced from my position as Chief of
Operations, whenever there was information which was judged
to be of significance, importance to a field station, that
field station was advised, unless there was some overriding
security source protection or other considerations, and the
decision then not to advise them was made at the Deputy
Director for Operations, as it is now called, or the Director
level.

There was, certainly, a very tight security, a very
tight compartmentation of counterintelligence information and
activities, which in my view was essential, and still is
essential, and will be even more essential in the future if
we are to regain a counterintelligence initiative and to do
our job in the future. And I think this is the fundamental
question that the management of the CIA and the Senate and the

TOP SECRET

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

Executive have to decide, is do we want a counterintelligence
effort, and if so, then we have to get to it, and we have to
put our best minds to it.

Mr. Johnson. Were there instances during your period in
counterintelligence where the Counterintelligence Staff would
conduct its own counterespionage activities, without the knowledge
of the various geographic division chiefs?

Mr. Miler. There were very few of them, with the chiefs.
There may have been some.

Mr. Johnson. In those cases where there were such
operations, were they cleared with the DDO?

Mr. Miler. Every single one of them was cleared with the
DDO and/or the Director and/or the Deputy Director.

Mr. Johnson. On important counterespionage operations,
could you tell us in more detail what the approval and clearance
process is?

We know that for covert action the 40 Committee frequently
becomes involved. What about for important counterespionage
operations?

Mr. Miler. Well, Mr. Angleton might want to qualify my
response, because obviously he was involved more in this
than I was, but there would be the two primary considerations.
One was a strictly CIA, counterintelligence or counterespionage
activity. The derivation of the authority for this came from
the statutes which set up the CIA and from National Security

TOP SECRET

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

Council directives 53, 55 and so forth. The authority rested
in there. The approval would go to the then DDP, now Deputy
Director for Operations, the Deputy Director and/or the
Director.

The authorities, if it were a significant counterintelligence
or counterespionage case, the authorities, as I understood it
then, might require the Director to go outside the Agency to
the White House or the Attorney General and so forth.

Alternatively, we in the CI Staff might be directed to
coordinate this with the FBI. We would go to the FBI, explain
the case and so forth. The FBI would then go to the Attorney,
the Department of Justice and get authorities, whatever
authorities they would require in order to pursue the investi-
gations, conduct the case, and do it according to whatever
stipulations that the Department of Justice would put on it
in order to either neutralize the suspected spy or agent, and/or
conclude the case by prosecution.

And I am talking now of primarily in terms of a serious
counterespionage case involving an American citizen.

Mr. Johnson. Mr. Angleton, do you know of any instances
where the CI Staff or higher authority within the CIA went
outside the Agency for approval for important counterespionage
operations?

Mr. Angleton. I know of cases, yes.

Mr. Johnson. And what would the approval system be?

TOP SECRET

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

Mr. Angleton. Well, it would be an ad hoc discussion
between the Director and the Secretary, and probably others,
the Attorney General.

Mr. Johnson. Does this happen frequently? Is this a typical
procedure for a major counter operation?

Mr. Angleton. If it's a major matter, it's on the basis
of need to know.

You have another kind of case where a foreigner came to
me and stated his government had a defector from the Bloc, an
excellent agent, and they would be prepared to give us the agent
if we would take it over lock, stock and barrel, handle it
in such a fashion that there would be no exposure, because of
the political consequences to their government.

I would go to the Director and the Deputy Director, spell
out the matter, and come to a determination with them whether
we wanted to take the case on. This particular case involved
not only a person who had been in the intelligence service of
the opposition a long time, but he had access to codes, and also
a great deal of deciphered material. So it was kicked back
and forth, and there was a determination made that we would
take it over, the staff would take it over in its entirety.

And therefore, it meant that I called in Scotty and we
pulled together our team, we sent them abroad. We handled the
man in the field for a long time, and then eventually brought
him back here.

TOP SECRET

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

In a case of that sort, the instruction was agreed upon
by all concerned, and the Director's instruction was that the
Division was not to be informed, the Division where this
individual came from, the Bloc area, should not be informed;
that the Bureau, only two or three people in the Bureau, by
name, should be informed, and that we would run the operation
and bury the individual at the end.

Now, it went along --

Mr. Johnson. Did you say "bury the individual"?

Mr. Angleton. I'm not using it in your Committee terms.

Mr. Kirbow. You'd better clear that up for the record.

Mr. Miler. We would integrate him in to the American
society in such a way that he would be non-identifiable.

Mr. Angleton. He would be buried.

Mr. Miler. May I just add here also that the authorities,
the approval are very specific in terms of the agents' and the
CIA's responsibility to advise and get the approval of the
Attorney General in bringing someone like this into the
United States.

The Director got this approval. It was a formal letter
to the Attorney General, a formal reply. There was a formal
but very limited advice to the Immigration. All of the legal
requirements required by the Attorney General, Immigration,
all other agencies, were done. However, in this instance, they
were done on a very narrow, select basis, directly to Attorney

TOP SECRET

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

General and so forth, rather than to go through the normal
bureaucratic chain of command out of the CIA and its various
components.

Mr. Angleton. With the added fact that we did not disclose
all of the facts, nor identity.

Now, this is important, because the individual was of
such prominence that the country concerned would be placed in
jeopardy diplomatically, the place where he was residing on
tour. There would be intensive investigations by his head-
quarters, and therefore we had to have covers. And so we
laid on in such a fashion that another service received infor-
mation regarding the target country that would induce them to
take certain observable actions, and then to spread the word
that the fellow had actually defected to another country, so
that their entire investigative thrust would be directed toward
that country.

Senator Hart of Colorado. So far we've talked about
process, and I think we'll keep going on it, and return to
it, but I would like to quantify some of this if I can.

First of all, by terms of definition, is the phrase or
the term "counterintelligence" interchangeable with counter-
espionage?

Mr. Angleton. It can be. I think technically counter-
intelligence is regarded to be all forms of investigative
activity, travel control, your data files, your dossiers, all

TOP SECRET

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

of the systems that go into counterintelligence as such.
Out of that emerges a product, and one of the products is
counterespionage.

Senator Hart of Colorado. I see.

How big was the Counterintelligence Staff?

Mr. Angleton. When? Well, when it was in its prime it
was around, it was 200 some odd people. After this decentraliza-
tion took place, when we lost international Communism, which in
no service in the world has it ever been divorced from
counterintelligence; we lost our police division where we
train police from throughout the world; we lost operation
approval, which is approval of agents; we lost our controls
over the Technical Services Division; we lost the geographic
representation; we lost liaison, which was the liaison was with
the FBI and 26 other government agencies who do investigations.

Mr. Miler. They took counterintelligence and liaison
away from the counterintelligence component, if you can imagine
such a situation.

Mr. Angleton. So that reduced us to less than 80 people,
and this comes to, Senator, if I can just point to one of the
most important things in the legislation or in whatever the
Executive does, is that you cannot have in my view a Director
of the FBI and a Director of CIA who are independent of one
another. You have to have some higher authority to whom you
can make an appeal when decisions of this sort are made so that

TOP SECRET

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

it is aired, and it is not done without the knowledge of anyone,
and then breaks, as it did, in the New York Times and what not.

Mr. Johnson. Yesterday we had the Bureau representatives
telling us that there was really no problem or conflict when
it came to questions of this, and that there was no problem
with higher authority. Apparently you would disagree with that.

Mr. Angleton. I disagree in total with that. I'm saying the
decline in the Bureau over 20 years from when they had very high
grade counterintelligence until today when there has probably
been -- well, it is least effective.

Senator Hart of Colorado. Why is that?

Mr. Angleton. Well, I think it has to do with the number
of diversions it had in the days of the Vietnam war, when
internal security lost a tremendous number of men to other
assignments and duties.

Second, I don't think that counterintelligence or the
real thrust of Soviet Bloc intelligence has ever been brought
up to policy level, and, more important, anything that involves
penetration has always been swept under the rug. In other
words, the question of penetration in this government or
penetration in any agency has never been brought to a responsible
level of finding out how it happened and what has gone wrong.

And let's take one defector who said -- in this case he
spent 16 years in the Soviet Union in the KGB. He gave us

TOP SECRET

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

over 180 leads of penetration in France, and it occasioned my
drafting a letter for Mr. McCone to give to President Kennedy
to give to DeGaul. DeGaul secretly sent to this country one
of his highest trusted military men. He was here incognito. He
met with the defector for three days.

The French original reaction to President Kennedy's letter
was, it was Soviet provocation, because this was at the stage
when France was making certain very sensitive agreements in the
atomic field and otherwise with the United States, and therefore
these allegations of penetration had a very direct bearing on
those negotiations. And so the General who came over was
totally prepared to believe this was provocation, but after
three days with the defector, in a meeting with Helms and
myself, he stated without any question that this man was 100
percent bona fide, because he could ask him those questions
right on the nerve of their secrets, and he got the responses.

Now, this defector also gave considerable data on the
status of penetration in the U.S. Government, documents which
he had seen in Moscow, cryptonyms of operating agents, documents
which could only have been prepared by our organization, and
many other cases going back into the early '50s, going almost
to Cabinet level. So all of this information was made available
to the Bureau. But in due course Mr. Hoover regarded or made
the pronouncement -- and I won't say when he makes a pronouncement
that it is one that has been recommended to him from higher

TOP SECRET

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

level -- that the defector in question was probably a provoca-
tion, and the Bureau ceased contact with that individual, and
I would say they have not had any contact with him since 1965.

Senator Hart of Colorado. Why did Hoover make that
decision?

Mr. Angleton. Well, among other things, this defector
wanted to have access to ongoing and to past cases with the
view that he had a tremendous amount of data that he could not
relate to anything, but if he could see things that were going
on, then it would be meaningful to him in terms of what he had
to contribute. And I can take the example that, with another
allied service; immediately we brought them into it and he had
seen certain naval documents that dealt with infrastructure and
budget. This happened to be British.

In time they found the documents, and when they presented
them to him, he could identify those he had seen and those he
had not seen. This led to the apprehension of Vassil, who
was in the admiralty. And this was the quality of his
information.

All through the west agents were apprehended on the basis
of his information. But there is a tremendous bulk of it which
is made up of fragments, made up of documents he's seen where
we have not been able to identify the document; a great number
of cryptonyms of reporting sources where we cannot find the
body to fit the cryptonym. So this is the reality. And he is

TOP SECRET

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

being contacted perhaps by nine different intelligence services
now.

There is no one who has supported the question of
his mala fides. In other words, everyone, to a man, has
stated that he is bona fide, that they have never been able to
disprove a statement of fact that he has given as a statement of
fact, although they do not necessarily agree with his hypotheses.
That is the official statement.

Mr. Miler. May I just add two things on this?

First, Mr. Johnson, it goes back to the business of
compartmentation and not advising stations. In the case Mr.
Angleton cited, the Paris station of the CIA was not told
anything about the information, and I think this is a very good
example of why you would not.

The second point I would like to follow up on is with
respect to this defector's information, there were five leads
which were passed to the FBI about penetration which involved
the CIA, for action. And one case was solved, but it was
solved only after the FBI officially sent us a letter saying
that they concluded that there was no substance to this
information.

They had to reopen the investigation --

Mr. Angleton. And they also said: send it to the Army.

Mr. Miler. Yes, send it to the Army.

Now, they had to reopen the investigation when their
surveillance spotted a man coming out of the Soviet embassy, and

TOP SECRET

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

it was subsequently proved that he was a Soviet spy.

Mr. Angleton. Now, that individual had performed four
separate missions for Soviet intelligence since about 1938 or
'39. One, he had been dropped in by the Soviets into Germany
on a mission with the WT set, to be captured in order to be
played back and to penetrate the German Intelligence.

Second, he had moved from that into the penetration of
VLASOV
the Vassilov movement, which were the captured Russians in the
German Vassilov Army.
VLASOV

Third, he had penetrated the anti-Soviet forces in Germany
and then he was taken on by us in 1948 or '51 is when they
sent to renew his inks.

So he was with us from '51 to around '60.

Well, when the defection occurred, it was '62.

Mr. Johnson. And Mr. Angleton, you used a term that is
unfamiliar to us: his inks.

Mr. Miler. Secret inks.

Mr. Angleton. Secret inks. In other words, the Germans
had captured a Soviet agent who had the same kind of
inks, and so therefore the inks were compromised, so they laid
on a large operation in Berlin and trained him in highly
sophisticated inks. And he is now residing not too far
distant from us.

But I might add that it is very important to note that while
we maintained that he is a Soviet agent, and the Bureau disagreed

TOP SECRET

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

and told us to send this off, we had a development occur which
it is not necessary for me to go into, it's still a relatively
live case, in which proof positive came that he was a Soviet
agent, and it was in the face of that proof positive that the
Bureau moved in and interrogated him. And that is what prompted
him to go to the Soviet embassy.

And after some hours there he came out, he was asked why
did you go to the Soviet embassy, and he said I went there to
get my personal history and particulars regarding my family
since those are the questions you have been asking me. In
other words, instead of -- in this case the man had a wife
who was having an affair off and on with a Japanese military
person here -- instead of recruiting the Japanese and the wife
to work in to him, because what we wanted was a confession,
because the point I want to stress here is in a case of this
sort, a penetration there, he is not there as a solo person.
He is there as a spotter. He is a person used for entrapment
abroad. He is a person who can originate an operation,
induce you to go into the operation and bring in a weak
element, and put them in a position for further recruitment.
And I can stretch this on and on.

And the classic example is the Philby case. Philby
would have been Chief of British Intelligence. He was also
identified positively in the end by this defector. When the
defector first knew about it, it was called the Ring of Five

TOP SECRET

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

in the Soviet intelligence, five people, Philby being one.

But from the time he knew about it, in actual fact it
was a ring that went into the twenties, because the purpose
of the penetration is simply not to be a passive figure; it is
to be an aggressive figure who creates situations for recruit-
ment. And that case has never been prosecuted. The man has
never confessed. He's never been broken. And yet it was in
the heart of our SB, Soviet Division activities.

Senator Hart of Colorado. Could you give us, back to the
quantification, could you give us some figures for numbers of
counterintelligence cases handled per year?

Mr. Angleton. Scotty, you can.

Senator Hart of Colorado. Just so we can have an idea
of the magnitude of volume.

Mr. Miler. Well, for example, one, program that we had
going was an attempt to record penetration recruitment attempts
of U.S., American officials abroad, strictly abroad. And over
a ten year period the number of attempts to recruit and
penetrate hit close to 1200. So we were running around 250 or
so a year, just in that one small area of counterintelligence
concern.

The number of cases that we had would vary, but I would
say that from defectors in the last ten year, from Soviet
and Soviet Bloc defectors, we averaged around 150 cases a
year. At one time -- I do know that at one time we had over

TOP SECRET

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

500 active cases which required investigation.

We were concerned with approximately 140 to 160 double
agent operations a year. We had investigations which would
probably have a range, 25 to 30, significant investigations
that were going on, in addition to which we would have a
number of investigations, leads and operations with cooperative
foreign intelligence and security services which would probably
hit an average of about 50, if you would.

There were other operations which were generated from other
investigations and so forth, leads from the FBI, leads from
the military services, which would perhaps hit 30 or 40
a year.

Senator Hart of Colorado. What about the number of cases
involving penetration, successful or otherwise, of the Agency
itself?

Mr. Angleton. Well, the basic responsibility would be
the Office of Security. In other words, we would work with
them, but it tends to be a one way street, as it should be,
namely, they are responsible for personnel and for installations.
But from the one defector alone, I would say there were five
hard leads.

Senator Hart of Colorado. Over what period of time?

Mr. Angleton. Of this one defector who came out in
December of '61. But his leads were going back to '51, 1951.

Mr. diGenova. Is this the same defector with whom the

TOP SECRET

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

FBI has had no contact since 1965?

Mr. Angleton. That's correct.

Mr. diGenova. Has the Agency had any contact with him
since 1965?

Mr. Angleton. Yes, we've had it, but we've had our
ups and downs.

Mr. diGenova. And what have those ups and downs been
attributable to?

Mr. Angleton. Well, they are basic -- well, first, there
are two different attitudes in the American intelligence
community regarding defectors. One of them is to give them
the harsh treatment and to treat them as second class citizens,
and we actually have taken on more salvage cases in the
Counterintelligence Staff and rehabilitated these people. In
fact, we came into that case basically because the fellow had
gone sour. And --

Mr. Kirbow. Meaning he had failed to continue cooperating
or was not giving you the right information?

Mr. Angleton. That's right. Well, no, it was simply that
he refused to cooperate any further, because one didn't appre-
ciate the ideological reasons for his defection.

So these ups and downs would go on -- I mean, we would
have to change case officers because they would simply have a
breakdown in communication.

Mr. diGenova. Did the failure of the FBI to utilize this

TOP SECRET

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

asset inhibit you in any way from using the