157-10014-10133

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System Date: 7/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: 157-10014-10133
RECORD SERIES: MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 07-M-39

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: SSCIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 03/25/1976
PAGES: 40
SUBJECTS: SSCSGO, METHODOLOGY
COMMITTEE BUSINESS
DOCUMENT TYPE: TRANSCRIPT
CLASSIFICATION: Declassified
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/22/2000
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: CCBOX 324

HW 50955 DocId: 32423521 Page 1

---

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: 157-10014-10133
RECORDS SERIES: MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 07-M-39
Date: 08/07/95
Page: 1

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: SSCIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 03/25/76
PAGES: 40
SUBJECTS: SSCSGO, METHODOLOGY
COMMITTEE BUSINESS
DOCUMENT TYPE: TRANSCRIPT
CLASSIFICATION: TOP SECRET
RESTRICTIONS: REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS: POSTPONED IN FULL
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/05/99
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: CCBOX 324

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HW 50955 DocId: 32423521 Page 2

---

TOP SECRET

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
Unauthorized Disclosure Subject to Criminal Sanctions

Report of Proceedings

Hearing held before:

Senate Select Committee to Study Governmental
Operations With Respect to Intelligence Activities

Thursday, March 25, 1976
Washington, D. C.

(Stenotype Tape and Waste turned over
to the Committee for destruction).

WARD & PAUL
410 FIRST STREET, S. E.
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20003

(202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

HW 50955 DocId: 32423521 Page 3

---

WARD/smnl

TOP SECRET

COMMITTEE MEETING

Thursday, March 25, 1976

United States Senate,
Select Committee to Study Governmental
Operations with Respect to
Intelligence Activities,
Washington, D. C.

The Committee met, pursuant to notice, at 2:43 o'clock
p.m., in Room S-407, the Capitol, the Honorable Frank Church
(Chairman) presiding.

Present: Senators Church (presiding), Mondale, Huddleston,
Hart of Michigan, Morgan, Hart of Colorado, Tower, Mathias,
Baker and Schweiker.

Also present: William G. Miller, Staff Director; Frederick
A. O. Schwarz, Jr., Chief Counsel; and Charles Kirbow,
Elizabeth Culbreath, Michael Madigan, Charles Lombard, William
Bader, Ted Rolson, Burt Wides, Walter Ricks, Rick Inderfurth,
John Bayly, David Aaron, Elliot Maxwell, Joseph Dennin,
Margaret Carpenter, Martha Talley, Paul Wallach and Jim
Johnston, Professional Staff Members.

HW 50955 DocId: 32423521 Page 4

TOP SECRET
WARD & PAUL

---

TOP SECRET

PROCEEDINGS

The Chairman. We will soon have a quorum. Why don't
we begin with the Recommendation No. 43 on page 77, having
to do with academics.

My understanding is that this recommendation has been
redrafted along the lines of the Committee's recommendations, and
as it now stands it calls for the CIA academics and the
institution to be informed, and for any student being recruited
to be so informed.

There is a choice in the latter case in informing him
before he is paid or informing him before he leaves the U.S.

Will you explain that to me please?

Mr. Aaron. In the course of our discussion about the
recruitment of students off campuses, there were two cate-
gories of concern. One was for the integrity of the institu-
tions themselves, and the second was, in turn, for the
students that might be involved.

To take the second one first, the Committee received
testimony that some foreign students recruited as agents for
the CIA were brought into kind of a holding status at a certain
point in which they were working for, if you will, CIA
proprietaries or CIA front organizations where they might
conduct some operational activity, provide some information,
under the impression that they were not working for the CIA
but for a company or, I think as one put it, I think, a group

TOP SECRET
HW 50955 DocId: 32423521 Page 5
WARD & PAUL

---

TOP SECRET

of investors.

Concern was expressed by the Committee in considering
this testimony that this might be rather severe for the student
once he discovered the fact he had been working for the CIA,
or should his government find that out, so that it was an
element of coercion to hire somebody under, if you will, false
pretenses.

That second proviso, then, in effect says that we may
pitch and recruit a student as an agent, but you must, when you
do that, when you really bring him into an operational relation-
ship with the Agency, he should be so informed and not brought
into this sort of --

The Chairman. Let's go off the record.

(Discussion off the record.)

The Chairman. The question that I have on this recommen-
dation is why shouldn't the foreign student being recruited
by the CIA be informed of his relationship with the CIA
at the time that that relationship is established?

Why do you condition it upon payment or leaving the
country?

Senator Huddleston. Well, I was going to say there are
many, many initial contacts that do not advance maybe much
further than that, and for the CIA to have to be exposed maybe
on each of those might not be reasonable. What we have tried
to do is to make the wittingness be known about the time that

TOP SECRET
HW 50955 DocId: 32423521 Page 6
WARD & PAUL

---

TOP SECRET

they are to perform some service. Up to that time they are
still maybe prospects, where they may not have been recruited.

The Chairman. Which do you think the Committee should
adopt of these two options?

Mr. Aaron. Actually, one could use both of these. I think
the point is that the danger to the student, if there is any,
comes when he leaves the United States, either to return to
his own country or perhaps someplace else, but the commitment
or involvement which ought to be witting really needs to come
when he starts being paid, when he becomes in fact, or has
a real relationship with the Agency. You could really establish
both standards, because it might well be that he could leave
the country but not have yet been paid, and not really have
a relationship that was anything more than kind of an asso-
ciation or an option, something of that character.

The Chairman. Well what is the will of the Committee
as to these two options?

Senator Huddleston. Well, this represents a distillation
of what we have been proposing as Senator Mondale develops
for us, I believe, and I would move that we adopt this report,
and use both of these, an either/or.

The Chairman. Whichever comes first, huh, either before
he is given payment of any kind or leaves the United States,
whichever may occur first.
Would that be satisfactory to the Committee?

TOP SECRET
HW 50955 DocId: 32423521 Page 7
WARD & PAUL

---

TOP SECRET

All right. Without objection, then, that will be the
decision of the Committee.

What else do you have?

Mr. Aaron. We have two other recommendations.

Senator Hart of Colorado. Mr. Chairman, could I be recorded
in opposition to this?

The Chairman. Yes, Senator Hart of Colorado is recorded
as in opposition.

Mr. Madigan. Senator, there is a proxy in opposition as
well.

The Chairman. Senator Baker wants to be recorded in
opposition as well.

Senator Mathias. I would, I think Senator Goldwater had
a very strong proxy that read into the record on this subject
at the last meeting.

Mr. Kirbow. Against restricting any use of academics.

Senator Mathias. I don't have a proxy with him today, but
I feel his position ought to be noted.

The Chairman. Very well, then, with those particular
reservations made part of the record, the Committee will
approve the amended Recommendation No. 43.

We move then to Recommendation 45 on page 78.

Mr. Aaron. We attempted to redraft this along the lines
as we were instructed, I believe.

As it came out, it would prohibit the subsidy of any

TOP SECRET
HW 50955 DocId: 32423521 Page 8
WARD & PAUL

---

TOP SECRET

writing, publication, distribution within the United States
or its territories, of any book, magazine, article and so forth.

It has been pointed out that this formulation would prevent
the writing of a book, even in a foreign language, within the
United States, to be published abroad and distributed abroad,
or any such materials from being published within the United
States, even if they were distributed abroad.

Now, that may be too restrictive and go beyond what the
Committee intended, and so therefore we wanted to raise this
here, to get a better understanding of what we were attempting
to accomplish.

As I understand it, what we were -- it was not clear, but
it is possible that what the Committee had in mind was that
any writing, publication for distribution in the United States
would have been the appropriate formulation for this, and if
that is correct, we can make a very easy fix.

Senator Morgan. Why wouldn't it?

The Chairman. Why wouldn't it accomplish it if we say
that by statute the CIA should be prohibited from subsidizing
the writing or production or distribution within the United
States or its territories of any book, magazine, article,
publication, film, or video or audio tape unless attributed
to the CIA.

Wouldn't that take care of it?

Mr. Aaron. If that is what the Committee intends, that

TOP SECRET
HW 50955 DocId: 32423521 Page 9
WARD & PAUL

---

TOP SECRET

would take care of it.

Senator Mondale. Publicly attributed.

Mr. Aaron. Publicly

Senator Huddleston. That is getting at what really we
are trying to do.

The Chairman. How about the balance of 45, "nor should
the CIA be permitted to undertake any activity to accomplish
indirectly such distribution within the United States or its
territories."

Well, I think that follows and should be a part of it.

Very well.

Senator Mathias. Mr. Chairman, I wonder, while we are in
this area, if you could refresh my recollection, whether
"grantees" in No. 44 applies to both foreign and American
grantees.

Mr. Bader. Yes, it would, Senator, under this language,
because the Fulbright program or the such government-sponsored
programs to include, too, include foreigners. As I understood
it from the discussion of the Committee, the intent here was
to ensure that public funds that were publicly devoted to
a specific purpose were so spent and that was the issue that
was involved here, was the appropriated funds for educational
programs be kept to educational programs and not to be used
operationally. But the language here would certainly include
foreigners.

TOP SECRET
HW 50955 DocId: 32423521 Page 10
WARD & PAUL

---

TOP SECRET

Mr. Maxwell. Bill would this prohibit the use of any
individual person who is sponsored by an educational or
cultural program, although not fully funded by the Federal
Government?

Senator Tower. This is a question I wanted to ask.

Could one of our networks pick up a portion of a film
broadcast abroad by the CIA and run it as part of a documentary
to show what they are doing and that kind of thing?

The Chairman. I think the way it has been modified that
is not a problem. This says "by statute the CIA should be
prohibited from subsidizing writings," or production.

Senator Tower. That is what I mean you are not precluded
from showing it, but it should not be done under CIA auspices
or government auspices.

The Chairman. And it should not be written for the
purpose of being shown in this country.

Senator Tower. Yes.

Mr. Aaron. Nor under the indirect clause, I think, nor
should the CIA go to CBS and say "we've got this wonderful
film."

The Chairman. Using a network for the purpose of bringing
it back. That would be an indirect way, and that would be wrong
also.

Senator Tower. I understand, yes.

The Chairman. Well, then, if everybody understands the

TOP SECRET
HW 50955 DocId: 32423521 Page 11
WARD & PAUL

---

TOP SECRET

way we have recommended the change in 45, without objection
the Committee approves it.

Let us go, then, to the next subject, the structural
changes, the role of the DCI on page 61.

Mr. Aaron. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. We have one other
question, that would be Recommendation 47. The Committee
agreed to extend --

Mr. Kirbow. Excuse me, Mr. Aaron. Senator Mathias's
question was on recommendation 44.

The Chairman. Were you satisfied with the answer?

Senator Mathias. Well, the question that was left
floating was what about a student who is in a program which is
primarily funded by some private institution, although there
may be some small element:

Mr. Maxwell. For instance, any major university that
sponsored an individual coming under 44, which receives
Federal Government funds, might be barred under a broad
reading of 44, and it might be helpful to make that intent
clearer in 44, if that is a concern of the Committee.

Mr. Aaron. I think this goes to the grantee as opposed
to the institution.

Now, if it is true --

The Chairman. It is the grantee that is receiving
funds.

Mr. Aaron. If you have a grantee receiving funds from

TOP SECRET
HW 50955 DocId: 32423521 Page 12
WARD & PAUL

---

TOP SECRET

more than one source, then he receives them from more than one
source, but if he is a grantee of a Federal program --

Mr. Maxwell. But the problem is receiving funds through
educational and/or cultural programs.

For instance, if he were totally funded by the University
of Maryland, which received financial support from the United
States Government, arguably he is covered by that. It is not
that he is receiving Federal grants. I think that is the
intention.

Mr. Aaron. It should be U.S. Government educational --

Mr. Bader. Would that help?

The Chairman. Through educational and/or cultural
programs sponsored by the United States Government. Wouldn't
that take care of it?

Senator Huddleston. Well, grantees who are receiving
directly from the United States Government or through educational
or cultural programs supported by the United States Government.

The Chairman. Sponsored by.

Senator Huddleston. Well, in other words, whether he is
getting them directly himself as a grantee, or whether he is
receiving them from an educational program that is itself
supported by the Federal Government.

Senator Mathias. I don't want to prolong this, but what
about a program which is really directed right at this area
which has been referred to, the armed services military

TOP SECRET
HW 50955 DocId: 32423521 Page 13
WARD & PAUL

---

TOP SECRET

educational operate?

Mr. Bader. I'm sorry, sir?

Mr. Aaron. Well, let me see if I understand the different
examples. The student leader grant or the political leader
grant that the State Department has where they bring foreigners
to the United States for a period of time, presumably to
acquaint them with the country and what have you, under this
language those people while on the grant would be immune from
being recruited by the CIA. This doesn't mean that they
couldn't recruit them at some other point in their careers, but
that during the period of that grant they would not be in
effect brought here and used for that purpose. That is, I
think, part of the intent of this particular provision.

Senator Mathias. Let me give you another example. Say
you have an Iranian naval officer who comes over here to
Fort McNair.

Is he fair game?

Mr. Miller. That is not educational or cultural. It
would be military.

Senator Huddleston. I believe if he were going through
the War College --

Senator Tower. If he were going through the National
War College, how do you classify that?

Senator Mathias. He could come to the industrial base
or civilian --

TOP SECRET
HW 50955 DocId: 32423521 Page 14
WARD & PAUL

---

TOP SECRET

Mr. Kirbow. He could go to the Industrial College or the
War College.

Senator Schweiker. Can you exclude military training?

Senator Mathias. I don't know. I don't know what you
want.

Senator Huddleston. We are training a lot of them or
we entertain a lot of them.

Senator Schweiker. It seems to me you have to put some
proviso about military training in there.

The Chairman. Well, it depends upon what the policy should
be. I had thought the attempt here was to immunize any foreigner
who comes here on a program sponsored by the Government of the
United States and receives a grant for that program, to
immunize him during that period from being recruited by the
CIA.

Senator Schweiker. Well, if he is here for military
purposes, then we know it is a military relationship, I would
think that is suspect.

The Chairman. Would you want him subject to recruitment?

Senator Schweiker. Well, if he comes over here militarily,
you are so close to him, what is the difference?

Mr. Aaron. Well, I think the point of the prohibition
really is this, that these programs are created for one
particular purpose. They are considered by the Congress for
that particular purpose and the funds are voted for that

TOP SECRET
HW 50955 DocId: 32423521 Page 15
WARD & PAUL

---

TOP SECRET

particular purpose. If the programs are then used for another
purpose by the Government, that was considered and suggested
that that second purpose should not be used.

Now, if you want to exempt certain categories here and
say, well, the military is a different thing, you can do that.
You can find a way to express that.

The Chairman. Well, it could be done. If you want to
recruit foreign military officers, we can bring them over
to put them through the War College.

Mr. Miller. What other training?

Senator Huddleston. Well, we have a steady stream at
Fort Knox, Kentucky of military people. I don't know what kind
of training. Most of them are, of course, are from friendly
nations to start with.

I don't know, you know, military. Once a person puts on
a uniform, he becomes fair game in a number of ways. He gives
up a lot of protections that civilians have.

Senator Schweiker. You allow him to recruit--- under
other policies here we allow them to recruit foreign military
officers because I think that's an even more valid relationship
than the students, but I make it clear that what we don't
want to do, which is to abort our honest to goodness cultural
exchange and other programs.

The Chairman. This could be done by saying "By statute
the CIA should be prohibited from using operationally grantees

TOP SECRET
HW 50955 DocId: 32423521 Page 16
WARD & PAUL

TOP SECRET
WARD & PAUL

---

TOP SECRET

programs is much clearer.

Senator Schweiker. Can we talk about Defense and military
training programs at the same time? It seems to me that's
the criteria, bringing a guy over here and educating him on
defense and military must be to the advantage of our military,
so you know what the relationship is to begin with. You are
not unwittingly using the guy. You are pretty witting.
If the guy goes to the American War College, he is pretty
fair game.

The Chairman. You can write an exception for the American
War College and all of the military and civilian personnel
receiving training under the auspices of the United States
armed services who are fair game.

(General laughter.)

Senator Huddleston. Except I agree with Dave, that is
a little awkward to zero in on this particular group. Couldn't
we find some way --

Mr. Kirbow. Mr. Chairman, I think it is not intended
this apply only to foreign students coming this way, you
include all American students going in the other direction,
or under any other grant.

Mr. Aaron. The intention of the provision initially, as
a matter of fact, its primary effect was for American students
traveling abroad.

Senator Tower. Well, I see no problem with that. I know
I don't have the votes here, but --

TOP SECRET
HW 50955 DocId: 32423521 Page 17
WARD & PAUL

---

TOP SECRET

The Chairman. Which part do you have?

Senator Tower. Well, not being able to use American
students abroad on some grant to gather intelligence, when
most of the people the damned Soviets send over here on these
cultural exchanges are really clued into the government
program, indoctrinated and briefed thoroughly before they get
here. I am not going to tie our hands like that. The rest
of you can, but I'm not going to.

I will write a vigorous dissent on that.

Senator Morgan. May I make a comment on that?

I'm inclined to agree, and I'm also inclined to agree
that we are going so far in our foreign intelligence that
we are endangering the whole report, so you make that kind of
an argument on the floor of the Senate on this and on two or
three other things. I'm not picking at any of them. I am
just sort of accepting the recommendations of the Subcommittee,
but my reaction has been that maybe we are getting a little
bit so far afield that we may endanger the acceptance of our
whole report.

The Chairman. Senator Huddleston?

Senator Huddleston. I would just say this, that the
Subcommittee has been cognizant of that situation. I think it is
because of that that some of these recommendations are already
softer than some of us thought would be appropriate, and this
is one of the fields. There was a considerable amount of support

TOP SECRET
HW 50955 DocId: 32423521 Page 18
WARD & PAUL

---

TOP SECRET

of the idea that academics be off limits, period, and students
in order to protect the integrity of our entire academic
community, and it is the realization that if we continued to
close the possibilities for recruitment, and the adverse
effect that that would have, maybe, on our ability to gather
intelligence, that some of us backed off of this, what would
be the optimum, we think, position to take. So this already
represents somewhat of a retreat from the principle that some
would like to see established, and in this case I think we
are again faced with the question of whether or not we want
a government-sponsored program to enjoy a high level of integrity
so that the people who are participating in it and the American
taxpayer who is supporting it can have some confidence that it
is doing what it was set out to do and what the publicly
announced purposes of it are.

And if we don't do that, if we permit it to be used as
an operational intelligence operation, then it seems to me like
we ought to announce that, that that ought to be one of the
purposes so stated in the grant to start with, while we are
likely to get an education, it is also likely if we can we
will have you gather intelligence for us.

Senator Morgan. Well, Dee, I think you are getting off
base for us. There is nothing that says they are required to
do it.

Senator Huddleston. That is correct.

TOP SECRET
HW 50955 DocId: 32423521 Page 19
WARD & PAUL

---

TOP SECRET

Senator Morgan. In other words, we are not going to
condition this grant on --

Senator Huddleston. Well --

Senator Morgan. Let me finish out, now. What you are
leading up to is you are saying we are going to condition this
grant on your cooperation with other governmental agencies.

Senator Huddleston. I am saying that is not beyond the
realm of possibility in some cases, if we don't put some
prohibition.

Senator Morgan. Well, I think there may be times,
especially in the light of what we heard in the past year,
when, you know, we might make that assumption, but I don't
think that on the whole when you are dealing with the United
States Government that you can really assume --

Senator Huddleston. But you can't assume he is not,
either.

The Chairman. But what worries me is you get a student
who in good faith goes abroad for the purpose of study and
qualifies for a Government grant, and he depends upon that
money and then he, when he gets over there and wants to complete
his studies, he is approached, and he can be approached in
such a way that he can be made to feel that if he does not
throw in with the CIA and do this and that, he may find that
the grant will be cut off or he can't complete the study as he
intended. He feels a certain dependency upon the money that

TOP SECRET
HW 50955 DocId: 32423521 Page 20
WARD & PAUL

---

TOP SECRET

he is receiving, and he has an expectation he wants to fulfill.
And thus he is in a very vulnerable position when he is
approached.

Senator Morgan. Well, that is a persuasive argument, but
let me ask you, have we had any evidence that that sort of
thing has happened?

The Chairman. Well, I don't know.

Senator Morgan. Well, it is a very persuasive argument,
but I just wonder if we should, in the absence of abuse on
that part, whether or not we should go this far.

The Chairman. What about it, Mr. Bader?

Mr. Bader. Mr. Chairman, I might say in partial response
to Senator Tower's remarks that the Agency's basic instruction
for the operational use of individuals, 50-10, specifically
prohibits the operational use of Fulbright grantees. They have
already made that decision in 1967, and reconfirmed in 1973.
I assume part of that came from agitation at the time in '67
and Senator Fulbright's own determination that that program not
be used for operational purposes.

It was the original intent of this language to extend
that prohibition, which is now a matter of public record, this
actually, that part of the instruction is in the public record
now under the Freedom of Information Act, that part of 50-10
that talks about Fulbright grantees. It was the original
intent of the recommendation that is now before you to extend

TOP SECRET
HW 50955 DocId: 32423521 Page 21
WARD & PAUL

---

TOP SECRET

that prohibition on Fulbright grantees to all of those under
the Fulbright-Hayes legislation. Under the specifics of the
Agency's interpretation, it makes a distinction between those
students, or graduate students, or professors selected by the
Board of Foreign Scholarships, and the rest -- and the rest
includes cultural leader grants and the like.

Now, perhaps it might be the sensible thing in the
language like this to confine it to the Fulbright-Hayes Act,
which is the basic legislation which deals with this.

Senator Schweiker. How many others would you have outside
of that? Would you have a lot of other programs?

Mr. Bader. Other programs?

Senator Schweiker. What percent of the total picture is
the Fulbright-Hayes Act?

Mr. Bader. I really wouldn't know, Senator. I think it
is the major part of it, actually. You could have a National
Endowment for the Humanities fellowship in which a person would
go overseas, and this, under the language we now have before
you, that would include those individuals.

The Chairman. Well, I can see how vulnerable a grantee
might be when approached, and if we have already written
into law a prohibition that relates to the Fulbright scholars,
I should think it ought to apply to any others that are
receiving educational or cultural grants from the United
States.

TOP SECRET
HW 50955 DocId: 32423521 Page 22
WARD & PAUL

---

TOP SECRET

Senator Tower. That is not a law, that is a regulation.

Mr. Aaron. And CIA's own regulation.

The Chairman. But then it was adopted as part of the law,
I thought you said.

Mr. Bader. No, sir. I said it has been made public
through the Freedom of Information Act. This is an internal
directive of the Agency, and as the Senators know, those
directives are certainly subject to change, so there really
are, in effect, two basic parts of this recommendation. One
was to commit the present internal prohibitions of the CIA to
law, and then to extend it, and the issue before the Committee,
in addition to whether there should be an extension, is sort
of how far and what language should be used to portray or
convey that prohibition?

Senator Baker. Mr. Chairman, do we have anything from
the Agency on this?

Senator Huddleston. I think you've got to weigh, to some
extent, the value of the two programs, of our cultural exchange
programs' importance. I think the public knowledge of any one
individual becomes known as a spy who is associated with a
program, it has a devastating effect, in my judgment, on the
program and on all students who are participating in it. I
just think the risk is too great.

Senator Tower. Well, my question at that point would be
to what extent does our cultural exchange program impact on

TOP SECRET
HW 50955 DocId: 32423521 Page 23
WARD & PAUL

---

TOP SECRET

people behind the Iron Curtain, to convince them as people that
we are nice folks, that they ought to influence their government
to be a little bit more friendly toward us? It doesn't have
any impact at all in a totalitarian state, none.

It is really a one way street.

Now, I am all for cultural exchange, simply because I
like to watch Russian ballet dancers, especially females, but
the fact of the matter is cultural change does more to soften
up the American public toward the Iron Curtain than the
other way around.

The Chairman. That is an argument as to the merits of
cultural exchange, and how you view ballerinas, but the question
here we face is whether or not we should put American students
in a position where they feel they must --

Senator Tower. I don't think they must be coerced.

The Chairman. But there is an element of intimidation
involved if they are receiving a grant from the government.

Senator Tower. Well, I would favor a specific prohibition
against making that a condition of getting a grant or scholarship
of some sort.

Senator Baker. Or continuing one.

Senator Tower. Or continuing one.

Senator Hart of Michigan. Well, John, what do you say
to Dee's point? If my roommate turns out to be a spy, it is
automatically assumed I am, and every guy in the outfit. What

TOP SECRET
HW 50955 DocId: 32423521 Page 24
WARD & PAUL

---

TOP SECRET

does this do to the American that is over there, all of
them? I don't think that is right.

Senator Tower. Well, I think in many instances American
operations abroad that have been completely innocent have been
labeled as spy operations for propaganda purposes by the other
side, and they will do that if they choose to. They will not
do it if they choose not to do it.

The Chairman. But you have many of these students who are
not inside Russia or in a Communist country. We have educational
and cultural programs in Third World countries and in the
western world.

Senator Tower. I understand that.

The Chairman. And there, if someone is caught engaging in
a CIA action of some kind, then everybody is contaminated.
The whole thing then becomes suspect in France or England or
wherever it might be.

Senator Tower. What if the grantee comes to CIA and
says, I have made some contacts over here that I think would
be of value in terms of passing intelligence along to you?
Are you going to turn him down and say, no, you are on a
Fulbright grant, we can't let you do that?

Senator Huddleston. No, they could use his information to
contact somebody else. He would not necessarily be operational.

Mr. Bader. Operational use, under the Agency's definition,
has two major elements to it. First is that the purposes to

TOP SECRET
HW 50955 DocId: 32423521 Page 25
WARD & PAUL

---

TOP SECRET

be accomplished, and objectives, are established by the Agency,
and the second is that the individual involved is tasked to
do that, ordered to do it, if you please.

Operational use does not, by the Agency's definition,
involve individuals who would come to the Central Intelligence
Agency to voluntarily give whatever information that they
think would be of value to the Agency, the kind of information
that the Contacts Division normally would like to have.

Senator Tower. Yes, but once having done that, the Agency
determines this person is valuable and they observe this
person and they put him under a control officer.

Mr. Bader. Then he would come under this condition. That
would be operational use!

Senator Huddleston. It would not include a debriefing of
him when he came back.

Mr. Kirbow. Nor could he be asked to go to a single meeting
more and report back on the very same subject that he just
reported on, which might be a critical target to the United
States Governments' national security.

Mr. Bader. Once he is operational, he has to accomplish a
particular task or purpose, then he is operationally used under
the terms.

Senator Tower. Even if he initiates the contact with
the Agency in the first place.

Mr. Bader. Only, Senator, if there is a second stage in

TOP SECRET
HW 50955 DocId: 32423521 Page 26
WARD & PAUL

---

TOP SECRET

this, if the individual --

Senator Tower. I know. The second stage may be the most
important.

Mr. Bader. It certainly may, and at that stage,