```markdown
157-10014-10117 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System Date: 07/07/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: 157-10014-10117
RECORD SERIES: MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 07-M-23

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: SSCIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: RICHARD GOODWIN BINDER
DATE: 00/00/1975
PAGES: 103
SUBJECTS: ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION: Declassified
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/21/2000
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: CCBOX 453

HW 50955 DocId: 32423505 Page 1

Date: 08/07/95
Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: 157-10014-10117
RECORDS SERIES: MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 07-M-23

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: SSCIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: RICHARD GOODWIN BINDER
DATE: 00/00/75
PAGES: 103
SUBJECTS: ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION: TOP SECRET
RESTRICTIONS: REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS: POSTPONED IN FULL
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/05/99
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: CCBOX 453

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HW 50955 DocId: 32423505 Page 2

RICHARD GOODWIN BINDER

GOODWIN TESTIMONY NOTEBOOK
TABLE OF CONTENTS

A. 4/26/61 Summary on Richard Goodwin by DiGenova.
B. 5/2/61 Memo to Bundy re "Cuba Problem" from Goodwin.
C. 5/4/61 Memo to Goodwin re "Possible Covert Activities against Cuba," from Bissell.
D. 5/5/61 Draft of NSC Action No. 2413.
E. 5/24/61 Draft: Record of Actions, 483rd NSC meeting (5/5/61).
F. 6/10/61 Memorandum of Conversation with Dick Bissell, Tracy Barnes, by Goodwin.
G. 7/8/61 Memorandum for the President re "CIA Reorganization," from Schlesinger.
H. 9/1/61 Memorandum for Mr. Richard Goodwin re "Cuban Covert Plan," from Schlesinger.
I. 11/1/61 Memorandum to the President re Cuban Task Force Meeting, 8/31, from Goodwin.
J. 11/2/61 Memorandum to the President, "Eyes Only for the President," re concept of a "command operation" for Cuba, from Goodwin.
K. 11/4/61 Memorandum, Eyes Only for the President and the Attorney General," re "operation should be organized with five staff components," from Goodwin.
L. 11/22/61 Memo, "Eyes Only," re recommendations that "the Cuban Operation be organized in five components."
M. 8/10/62 Memorandum to Sec. of State, Sec. of Defense, Director of CIA, AG, Gen. Taylor, Gen. Lansdale, Richard Goodwin re "...summary of the major decisions which have been made in regard to the Cuba Operations" from Goodwin.
N. 8/13/62 Memorandum for Record re "Minutes of Meeting of Special Group (Augmented) on Operation MONGOOSE, 10 August, 1962.
O. 8/14/62 Memorandum for William Harvey, CIA, Robert Hurwitch, State, Gen. Benjamin Harris, Defense, Don Wilson, USIA re "Alternate Course B," from Lansdale.
P. 5/27/75 Summary of Goodwin Interview w. Aaron re "Intelligence Activities in Latin America."

HW 50955 DocId: 32423505 Page 4

Table of Contents - 2

Q. 6/10/75 Szulc Testimony before SSC, excerpt.
R. 7/17/75 Summary of documents produced by Goodwin on 7/16/75, by Dennin.
S. 5/13/61 Memorandum to Goodwin re "CIA Covert Activities in the Dominican Republic."
T. 5/29/61 Drafts and original of cable from State Dept. to Dearborn.

HW 50955 DocId: 32423505 Page 5

July 17, 1975

To: F.A.O. Schwarz/Curtis Smothers
From: Joseph E. DiGenova
Re: Richard Goodwin Materials and Summary

Summary

A. Goodwin Interview of July 16, 1975

Mr. Goodwin was interviewed for a second time on July 16, 1975. He indicated that he chaired the "Cuba Task Force" after the Bay of Pigs. Paul Nitze had previously chaired the group. It was this Cuba Task Force that suggested the establishment of the Lansdale project. In this regard, Goodwin noted that Lansdale proved to be very efficient. Goodwin indicated that he was present during the conversation between President Kennedy and Tad Szulc concerning the question of assassinating Castro. (See Szulc's testimony infra.) He spoke with the President after that conversation and remembers JFK saying about assassination: "We can't get into that -- we'll all be targets." He noted that Bissell never mentioned anything to him, Goodwin, about assassination attempts. With regard to the August 10, 1962, meeting which he attended, Goodwin

HW 50955 DocId: 32423505 Page 6

noted that McCone never made any oration upon the immorality of assassinating Castro. He remembered the August 10 meeting and said that "assassination was not shot down". When pressed for details at this point, and after being shown the Lansdale (8/13/62) and Harvey (8/14/62) memoranda, he said he wanted to think about the meeting before he made any more statements about who said and did what. He noted, however, that in 1966 while in Peru with Robert Kennedy that Kennedy, in a fleeting retort to a series of questions about U. S. assassination attempts against Castro, said "Tell him (the interpreter) I saved his (Castro's) life."

At the conclusion of the interview he turned over to the Committee various documents related to Cuba which he had found in his personal papers. Those are appended to this summary.

B. Goodwin Interview of May 27, 1975

During the course of this earlier interview, Goodwin alluded to the Cuba Task Force. According to the Committee notes of that interview, the discussion went as follows:

In general, Goodwin had not heard much specific talk of assassination, although it would not have surprised him if it had gone on. He mentioned one specific instance in which he had heard talk of

HW 50955 DocId: 32423505 Page 7

assassinating Castro. After the Bay of Pigs, a Cuba Task Force was established, first chaired by Paul Nitze and then by Goodwin in his capacity as White House Staff Officer. At a meeting of the Task Force, held at the State Department, McNamara suggested "getting rid of Castro", someone from the CIA, perhaps Bissell, then asked if McNamara meant "Executive Action". McNamara responded that he did and stressed his interest in the idea. However, Goodwin did not bring the topic up later in the meeting after McNamara left.

C. The Goodwin Documents

(See interview infra.)

The documents which Mr. Goodwin has furnished the Committee are of no startling significance. One document, the May 2, 1961, memorandum from Bissell to Goodwin, is noteworthy because it does not advise him of the Roselli connection or the efforts to assassinate Castro. Bissell notes, "I have not attempted to provide you with much detail." A May 24, 1961, Memorandum of Conversation with Bissell by Goodwin does not mention any reference by Bissell to actions against Castro on the assassination front. An Arthur Schlesinger memorandum of June 30, 1961, to the President discusses the need for revamping of the "intelligence set-up" of the United States. In a footnote in that memorandum, Schlesinger notes that the CIA is not able to control its operatives once they are in the field and of the attendant dangers this poses. (See page 6 of the memo.)

HW 50955 DocId: 32423505 Page 8

The other documents indicate the thinking that went on up to the point where the Lansdale group was established as the coordinated effort against Cuba.

Areas of Inquiry for Goodwin

What, if anything, does Goodwin remember of the August 10, 1962, meeting of the Special Group which he attended?

Is this meeting different than the meeting he refers to in his initial interview where McNamara broached the subject of assassinating Castro? Or has he simply confused them and are they one and the same?

How does he explain McCone's recollection of having given an oration on the immorality of assassinating Castro when it was brought up at the August 10 meeting?

Was McNamara the person who brought up the subject at that meeting?

What discussion, if any, followed?

HW 50955 DocId: 32423505 Page 9

SECRET
Draft
4/26/61

MEMORANDUM

To: McGeorge Bundy
From: Dick Goodwin

Here are a few scattered thoughts on the "Cuba" problem.
Cuba is a threat to the security of the United States in two basic ways:

1. As a direct military menace in the Caribbean, a menace which will be intensified as communist arms shipments continue. However, even this increased danger will be minimal. Our treaty obligations commit us to the defense of any American nation which is attacked directly. Any military moves by Castro could be met immediately by our forces. Similarly we could intervene in case of Castro military aid to guerilla operations in the Americas.

2. As an exporter of revolution: There is no doubt that Cuba is being used as a base for export of the communist-fidelista revolution. This is done through the actual supply of funds and technical assistance to insurgent elements, through widespread and reasonably effective propaganda apparatus including a news service and radio network and through the use of Cuba as an example of the alliance between fidelismo and necessary social reform identification with the welfare of the people.

This threat is significant - especially in the Caribbean area. However, even here, in the last six months there has been a significant decline in Cuban effectiveness. This has come because of the growing isolation of communist-fidelista elements from the Democratic left as Castro's pro-Soviet bent has

HW 50955 DocId: 32423505 Page 10

SECRET

become more apparent; and as Castro has become increasingly erratic in his personal behavior. There are signs, in fact, that the communists are looking for another, more stable, hero -- perhaps Cardens of Mexico.

3. While this means a declining influence of fidelismo over popular movements; it does not necessarily lessen the importance of Cuban-Soviet-Chinese material and technical aid to revolutionary movements. It is important to remember that even if Castro were wiped out tomorrow we would not have solved the problem of communist influence in the Americas. In fact, most of the greatest danger spots (E.G. Northeast Brazil, Columbia back-country, communist dominated student movements, etc.) do not owe either their existence or strength to Castro, but to local and independent leadership and would continue to grow if our only anti-communist move were to knock out Castro. These movements will benefit from material assistance, even if they do not look to Cuba for leadership.

Suggested Course of Actions

Action Aimed At Cuba Directly

1. Before acting directly against Castro, in any fashion, we need a complete reassessment of the vulnerability of his regime -- the degree of popular support, the probably declining position of the Cuban economy and its impact on the Cuban people, the efficiency of his police state, the possibilities of underground organization, etc. Without such an assessment it is

SECRET

HW 50955 DocId: 32423505 Page 11

SECRET

impossible to realistically determine what alternative courses of action are open to us.

2. To meet the military threat we can work out defense agreements with Central American nations along the lines suggested with Professor Berle.

3. We should approach the government of Chile to call an Inter-American arms limitation conference. This conference should deal with methods of stopping external arms shipments in the context of the over-all limitations which are desperately needed in Latin America. We should decide, before this meeting, whether the risks in an OAS blockade of arms shipments to Cuba are outweighed by the dangers involved in halting and searching international shipping.

4. Immediately consult with heads of major nations in Latin America to see how far they are willing to go in terms of collective action. This should be done via a personal emissary. Although we should have a reasonably clear idea of what we want to do, this should be a genuine consultation among allies. All the myriad proposals for OAS action, etc., depend on the reaction of other Latin nations -- a reaction as yet undetermined.

5. Underlying all these proposals is the feeling that we should not move quickly in direct action against Cuba. I do not believe that there is any course of direct action which we can wisely take on the basis of current knowledge and conditions.

SECRET

HW 50955 DocId: 32423505 Page 12

SECRET

Attempts to stop/direct export of Castroism

1. We should provide Caribbean nations with the technical help (e.g. radar to spot incoming planes) and navy patrol assistance to meet the dangers of arms shipments from Cuba to insurgent elements in those nations.

2. There are two or three real danger spots (e.g. Dominican Republic and Haiti) where we should now be developing democratic alternatives to the present regime -- organizing replacement governments. If we do not do this then the inevitable changes in government may be followed by Castro-type regimes. When Democratic alternatives are organized we should consider means of precipitating the fall of Trujillo and Duvalier and possibly Somoza. In this way we can exert maximum control over the type of replacement government -- the timing and initiative should be ours.

3. Help provide counter-propaganda assistance to Latin governments -- e.g. radio transmitters. The more we can work through Democratic-liberal forces in Latin America, rather than through USIA alone, the more effective will be our propaganda.

General counter-demonstrations

Our long-range strategy in the Americas should have two basic elements:

First, the organization of a strong political counter-force. We have a ready instrument in the newly organized League of Democratic parties.

SECRET

HW 50955 DocId: 32423505 Page 13

SECRET

We should assist these parties financially and technically -- to develop progressive political movements (in some cases revolutionary movements, especially in the less progressive countries) through helping them in techniques of organization down to the village level, ideological warfare, etc. U. S. government help should be covert.

Second, the Alianza para el progreso. This program with its emphasis on social and economic advance is the real hope of preventing a communist takeover. The Alianza is proceeding about as rapidly as possible given present organization of effort, and the magnitude of available funds. Both of these elements are unsatisfactory.

A. Funds: Present plans provide for the allocation of 250-350 million dollars worth of economic assistance to Latin America in fiscal 1962. This is out of a total of 2.4 billion. (This sum does not include the social development fund). One hundred million of this will go to Brazil to get them over their current financial crisis. I am not clear that any substantial allocation could be made given the enormous needs in Asia (especially in India and Pakistan) although I believe there can be some increase. However, these funds are probably not sufficient to make a real and effective start in economic development.

B. Organization: If communist takeover comes in Latin America it probably will not come through guerilla warfare, but through the capture of

SECRET

HW 50955 DocId: 32423505 Page 14

SECRET

Indigenous revolutionary movements! We cannot meet such a threat effectively when our covert operations are as diffuse and uncoordinated as they are today. The AID program, the political bureaus of State, the USIA, educational change, CIA activities all go, to too great an extent, their own way under separate heads and often in pursuit of separate goals. I believe that resulting diffusion of effort results in great waste of resources and intelligence. We must organize our non-military overseas operation to reflect our basic objective in Latin America the strengthening of democratic Western-oriented nations and governments so that they have the capacity to resist communist attack in all its forms. Those who are charged with the responsibility for achieving this objective must have control over the instruments which our government provides. Just as we have seen the need for some centralization of command in fighting hot wars it is needed for effectively waging a cold war. This does not necessarily mean a "Chief of Hemisphere Operations"; but at the very least it means that, within each key country there must be a central operational capacity and authority with direct lines to the levels of action in Washington.

SECRET

HW 50955 DocId: 32423505 Page 15

EYES ONLY
2 May 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Richard N. Goodwin
Assistant Special Counsel to the President

SUBJECT: Possible Covert Activities against Cuba

Attached is a brief statement regarding covert operations against Cuba. In view of your familiarity with this subject and our conversations over the past few days, I have not attempted to provide you with much detail.

Richard M. Bissell, Jr.
Deputy Director
(Plans)

Attachment: Paper as stated above

HW 50955 DocId: 32423505 Page 16

SECRET
EYES ONLY
2 May 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Richard N. Goodwin
Assistant Special Counsel to the President

SUBJECT: Possible Covert Activities against Cuba

Attached is a brief statement regarding covert operations against Cuba. In view of your familiarity with this subject and our conversations over the past few days, I have not attempted to provide you with much detail.

Richard M. Bissell, Jr.
Deputy Director
(Plans)

Attachment: Paper as stated above

HW 50955 DocId: 32423505 Page 17

SECRET
EYES ONLY
2 May 1961

As indicated by the combined INR/ONE estimate, anti-Castro activity within Cuba will probably be muted at least for the next several months. Most individuals whose loyalty is in any way suspect have been arrested. A recent report from the Swiss Ambassador indicated that political prisoners now number 100,000.

All internal services will continue to work on a theory of repression plus undoubtedly swift and brutal penalties. Consequently, it will be very difficult to carry on any clandestine operations and it is doubtful that such operations can have any significant impact in weakening the Castro regime.

In spite of this, evidence is still available that there is opposition to the regime among individuals still at large and that such opposition is prepared to undertake action despite the risks involved. Moreover, there are still agents distributed through most of the six provinces and communications can still be had either directly or indirectly with these individuals. At the very least these agents can and will continue to collect information and to transmit it to the Agency. In addition, certain of these individuals, plus some additional ones who might be infiltrated, could attempt to carry out some sabotage. Individual acts of sabotage are possible with relatively few men and small amounts of material. Successive acts of sabotage or extensive

HW 50955 DocId: 32423505 Page 18

SECRET
EYES ONLY

sabotage operations are more difficult and inevitably more costly in terms of loss of men. Nevertheless, it would be possible, starting in the near future, to attempt limited sabotage with a view to determining its feasibility and with the hope that gradually an increased program might be developed.

A capability also exists for types of maritime operations including infiltration and exfiltration of individuals, landing and caching of arms, under-water sabotage of shipping and small raider operations. Under present circumstances it would seem wrong to attempt these except on a very limited scale and, in all likelihood, raider operations should not be attempted until more information regarding feasibility has been obtained.

The Agency also has a small air arm including some transport aircraft (C-54 and C-46 types) plus attack bomber aircraft (B-26). Although it is not absolutely certain, there is reason to suppose that Cuban crews also are available for operational flights. At the moment, air operations should be substantially eliminated with the possible exception of supply flights to support opposition elements unable to survive without such support. Even with respect to such operations, however, it should be remembered that the percentage of successful night drops is extremely limited so that the urgency should be great to justify the risk. B-26 strikes could, of course, be flown against chosen targets (e.g. refineries, power plants, tire plants) and, if

HW 50955 DocId: 32423505 Page 19

SECRET
EYES ONLY

successful, might have the effect of extensive sabotage. In view of the risks involved, however, and the poor deniability of U.S. support where aircraft are involved, it is recommended that such operations be avoided at least for the present.

Manolo Ray of the MRP has asserted an independent MRP capability to conduct infiltration, intelligence collection, sabotage and defection operations into Cuba. He recognizes a need for U.S. support but is very firm in his desire to operate as independently as possible of any official U.S. connection. His initial request is for five boats, some materiel and some money. He admits, however, that, looking ahead, additional support such as real estate, some help with training and communications will be required. He offers to share his information with the U.S. Government, seek U.S. advice and, at least for a period of time, be willing to operate with the Revolutionary Council. The Council's views are being canvassed and Ray has been asked to prepare a prospectus giving in some detail his needs for U.S. support for the immediate future and the step-up required over a period of time should his efforts prove successful.

The Ray proposal should certainly be examined and given support within reasonable limits if the relationships proposed both with the Council and with the U.S. are satisfactory.

HW 50955 DocId: 32423505 Page 20

SECRET
EYES ONLY

In addition to the activities described above, propaganda activities such as radio broadcasts and publication of magazines and newspapers can be continued independently by the Agency or in support of Ray or the Revolutionary Council. Moreover, limited political action operations are possible. As to both propaganda and political action, however, the amount of effort and the type of activity undertaken will depend to a large extent on the decisions with respect to the operations described above. Consequently, these will be noted here as mere possibilities.

HW 50955 DocId: 32423505 Page 21

DRAFT
TOP SECRET

3. U. S. POLICY TOWARD CUBA
(NSC Action No. 2413-c; Memo for NSC, same subject, dated May 4, 1961)

a. Agreed that the political objective of U. S. policy toward Cuba is to bring about the downfall of the Castro regime.

b. Agreed that the United States should not undertake military intervention in Cuba now, but should do nothing that would foreclose the possibility of military intervention in the future.

c. Agreed that the Cuban situation should be kept under constant review, in the light of the possibility that actions by Castro would prompt a reconsideration of the decision not to intervene.

d. Agreed that the United States should not impose a naval or air blockade against Cuba at this time.

e. Noted the importance the President attaches to obtaining timely and adequate intelligence as to Cuban military capabilities, especially the enhancement of such capabilities by Sino-Soviet Bloc military assistance, taking into account the possibility of U. S. intervention at a future date.

HW 50955 DocId: 32423505 Page 22

DRAFT
TOP SECRET

f. Noted the importance the President attaches to publication in the Free World press of the terroristic actions of the Castro regime.

g. Noted the President's direction that the Task Force on Cuba make a detailed study of possible weaknesses and vulnerabilities in the elements which exert control in Cuba today.

h. Noted that a Special Committee, under the direction of the Director of Central Intelligence, would prepare a plan of special covert operations with respect to Cuba, for the consideration of the President.

i. Agreed that no separate Cuban military force should be organized in the United States, but that Cuban nationals would be encouraged to enlist in the U. S. armed forces and trained in special units consisting of Spanish-speaking nationals, under a plan to be presented by the Secretary of Defense in connection with his review of U. S. conventional forces.

HW 50955 DocId: 32423505 Page 23

DRAFT
TOP SECRET

j. Agreed that Cuban nationals now in the United States will be given refugee status and assisted, under a program to be developed and directed by the Secretary of Health, Education & Welfare, in carrying on their former occupations. Refugees now in Miami will be encouraged to locate in other areas. Cuban nationals entering the United States will be given refugee status.

k. Agreed not to impose a complete trade embargo on Cuba for the present, but if later actions by Castro resulted in a decision to do so, all trade with Cuba would be stopped. The Secretary of State agreed to send to the President an analysis of how a U. S. embargo on trade with Cuba would affect our trade relations with other countries under the Battle Act.

l. Noted that the President would discuss with Canada the position of Canadian subsidiaries of U. S. corporations in the event of U. S. impositions in trade embargoes on Cuba.

m. Agreed that the United States should at once initiate negotiation to enlarge the willingness of other American states to join in bilateral, multilateral and OAS arrangements to quarantine Castro, such as (1) breaking diplomatic relations with Cuba; (2) controlling

HW 50955 DocId: 32423505 Page 24

DRAFT
TOP SECRET

subversive activities of Cuban agents; (3) preventing arms shipments to Castro; (4) limiting economic relations with Cuba; (5) creating a Caribbean security force; (6) initiating a naval patrol to prevent Cuban invasion of other states in the Caribbean; and (7) denunciation of Castro as an agent of international communism by all nations of this hemisphere.

n. Agreed that the Alliance For Progress should be strengthened by such measures as (1) rapid implementation of selected social development projects; (2) acceleration of the implementation of other Latin American aid; and (3) provision of additional resources for Latin American economic and social development, including consideration of a supplemental appropriation for development loans.

o. Agreed that the U. S. Information Agency would expand its existing program in Latin America rather than initiate electronic warfare against the Castro regime.

p. Agreed that U. S. military officers, under general guidance to be prepared by the Department of State, would discuss the Castro threat to all Latin America with Latin American officers.

q. Agreed that the Secretary of State should prepare a report on a possible new juridical basis for effective anti-communist action.

HW 50955 DocId: 32423505 Page 25

DRAFT
TOP SECRET

4. U. S. POLICY TOWARD THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC AND HAITI

Agreed that the Task Force on Cuba would prepare promptly both emergency and long-range plans for anti-communist intervention in the event of crises in Haiti or the Dominican Republic. Noted the President's view that the United States should not initiate the overthrow of Trujillo before we knew what government would succeed him, and that any action against Trujillo should be multilateral.

Bring Dearborn back for a day

HW 50955 DocId: 32423505 Page 26

TOP SECRET
COPY NO.

DRAFT RECORD OF ACTIONS
483rd NSC Meeting
(5/5/61)

1. U. S. POLICY TOWARD IRAN

Agreed that a Task Force should be established under the Assistant Secretary of State for Near Eastern Affairs to prepare and circulate a report on the subject by May 15 for discussion by the Council on May 19.

2. U. S. POLICY TOWARD KOREA

Agreed that a Task Force under the Assistant Secretary of State for Far Eastern Affairs should be established to prepare and circulate a report on the subject by May 15 for discussion by the Council on May 19.

3. U. S. POLICY TOWARD CUBA
(NSC Action No. 2413-c; Memo for NSC, same subject, dated May 4, 1961)

a. Agreed that U. S. policy toward Cuba should aim at the downfall of Castro, and that since the measures agreed below are not likely to achieve this end, the matter should be reviewed at intervals with a view to further action.

b. Agreed that the United States should not undertake military intervention in Cuba now, but should do nothing that would foreclose the possibility of military intervention in the future.

TOP SECRET

HW 50955 DocId: 32423505 Page 27

DRAFT
TOP SECRET

3. U. S. POLICY TOWARD CUBA (Continued)

c. Agreed that the United States should not impose a naval blockade or attempt an air war against Cuba; it was noted that neither course had the support of the Department of Defense or the Joint Chiefs of Staff.

d. Noted the importance the President attaches to obtaining timely and adequate intelligence as to Cuban military capabilities, especially the enhancement of such capabilities by Sino-Soviet bloc military assistance, so that U. S. capabilities for possible intervention may be maintained at an adequate level.

e. Noted the importance the President attaches to publication in the Free World press of the terroristic actions of the Castro regime, and to possible political action to end the current terror.

f. Noted the President's direction that the Central Intelligence Agency, with other departments, should make a detailed study of possible weaknesses and vulnerabilities in the elements which exert control in Cuba today.

g. Agreed that relations with the Revolutionary Council should be improved and made more open, and while it cannot be recognized as a government-in-exile, support should be given to it insofar as it continues to represent substantial Cuban sentiment.

h. Agreed that no separate Cuban military force should be organized in the United States, but that Cuban nationals would be encouraged to enlist in the U. S. armed forces under plans to be developed by the Secretary of Defense.

TOP SECRET

HW 50955 DocId: 32423505 Page 28

DRAFT
TOP SECRET

3. U. S. POLICY TOWARD CUBA (Continued)

i. Agreed that Cuban nationals now holding U. S. visitors' visas will be given refugee status and assisted, under a program to be developed and directed by the Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare, in carrying on their former occupations. Refugees now in Miami will be encouraged to locate in other areas. Cuban nationals entering the United States will be given refugee status. All refugees will be eligible to apply for travel privileges, and it was understood that they would also be eligible for citizenship.

j. Agreed not to impose an immediate trade embargo on Cuba. The Secretary of State agreed to send to the President an analysis of the effects of a U. S. embargo on trade with Cuba in relation to the Battle Act. It was agreed that when an embargo is imposed, it should be as complete as possible, with certain exceptions for Canada and with Red Cross distribution of drugs.

k. Agreed that the United States should at once initiate negotiation to enlarge the willingness of other American states to join in bilateral, multilateral and OAS arrangements against Castro, such as (1) breaking diplomatic relations with Cuba; (2) controlling subversive activities of Cuban agents; (3) preventing arms shipments to Castro; (4) limiting economic relations with Cuba; (5) creating a Caribbean security force; (6) initiating a naval patrol to prevent Cuban invasion of other states in the Caribbean; and (7) denunciation of Castro as an agent of international communism by all nations of this hemisphere.

TOP SECRET

HW 50955 DocId: 32423505 Page 29

DRAFT
TOP SECRET

3. U. S. POLICY TOWARD CUBA (Continued)

l. Agreed that the Alliance For Progress should be strengthened by such measures as (1) rapid implementation of selected social development projects; (2) acceleration of the implementation of other Latin American aid; and (3) provision of additional resources for Latin American economic and social development, including consideration of a supplemental appropriation for development loans of the order of $200-$400 million.

m. Agreed that the U. S. Information Agency would expand its existing program in Latin America, but not initiate electronic warfare against the Castro regime; means of propaganda should be made available to non-U. S. groups.

n. Agreed that U. S. military officers, under general guidance to be prepared by the Department of State, would discuss the Castro threat to all Latin America with Latin American officers.

o. Agreed that the Secretary of State should prepare a report on a possible new juridical basis for effective anti-communist action.

p. Agreed that pending appointment of an Assistant Secretary of State for Latin American Affairs, the Task Force on Cuba should be continued under the chairmanship of Richard N. Goodwin, Assistant to the Special Counsel to the President.

TOP SECRET

HW 50955 DocId: 32423505 Page 30

DRAFT
TOP SECRET

4. U. S. POLICY TOWARD THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC AND HAITI

Agreed that the Task Force on Cuba would prepare promptly both emergency and long-range plans for anti-communist intervention in the event of crises in Haiti or the Dominican Republic. Noted the President's view that the United States should not initiate the overthrow of Trujillo before we knew what government would succeed him, and that any action against Trujillo should be multilateral.

5. U. S. POLICY TOWARD BRITISH GUIANA

Agreed that the Task Force on Cuba would consider what can be done in cooperation with the British to forestall a communist take-over in that country.

6. U. S. POLICY IN MAINLAND SOUTHEAST ASIA

a. Noted that efforts should be made to reassure Sarit and Diem that we are not abandoning Southeast Asia.

b. Noted the President's view that Sarit could be told that we are considering inclusion of U. S. troops in SEATO forces to be stationed in Thailand, the timing to be dependent on developments during or after the forthcoming 14-nation Geneva Conference.

c. Noted that the Secretaries of State and Defense would be sending recommendations to the President promptly on the number of U. S. training troops to be stationed in Thailand.

TOP SECRET

HW 50955 DocId: 32423505 Page 31

May 24, 1961

MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION WITH:

Dick Bissell
Tracy Barnes

Mr. Bissell agreed that no major decisions concerning covert activities in Cuba should be made before the President returns from his European trip. However there are a few things he thought should be done immediately:

1. That he revise the internal CIA organization in preparation for possible covert activities. This means changes both here and in Miami.

2. That a small group (30 to 40) Cuban pilots be continued as pilots under commercial cover in Central America and perhaps one or two American companies. No commitment should be made to them that they would be used in future activities. They would be trained as individuals and not as any group or "movement." This is primarily to keep their skills alive and to keep them available.

3. He wishes to clean up the Nicaraguan situation. We have left a lot of Military hardware there as a residue of the Cuban operation. He would like to pull this equipment out of there, turning some of the B 26's over to Somoza and allowing some of the Cuban pilots to remain there to train Nicaraguans in flying these