```
157-10005-10250 © 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Date: 10/05/93
Page: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10005-10250
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : R654

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:
TRANSCRIPT/RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS/EXHIBITS

DATE : 06/25/75
PAGES : 61

SUBJECTS :
PAGES 8-68 OF TESTIMONY BY SARNO, ALFRED J.

DOCUMENT TYPE : TRANSCRIPT
CLASSIFICATION: T
RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/05/93

OPENING CRITERIA :
BOX 258-11

COMMENTS :
HW 50955 DocId:32202440 Page 1

--- Page 2 ---

TOP SECRET
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED

Unauthorized Disclosure Subject
to Criminal Sanctions

The United States Senate
Report of Proceedings
SSCI

MINORITY DRAW
R654

258-11
Friday, June 25, 1975

(Stenotype Tape and Waste turned over
to the Committee for destruction)

WARD & PAUL
410 FIRST STREET, S. E.
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20008

TOP SECRET
HW 50955 DocId:32202440 Page 2

--- Page 3 ---

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

HW 50955

TESTIMONY OF
Alfred J. Sarno

DocId:32202440 Page 3

TOP SECRET

CONTENTS

TOP SECRET

PAGE
3

--- Page 4 ---

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

HW 50955

TOP SECRET

for AMUTS?

Mr. Sarno. I think from December, 1961 or January, 1962
to September, 1967. Then from June -- August, 1968 to
September, 1969.

Mr. Wides. Now let me go back, and can you give us a
very brief summary of your positions with the Agency prior to
that? I don't mean detailed as to what you were doing.

Mr. Sarno. I joined the Agency in September of 1951.

Mr. Wides. Yes?

Mr. Sarno. I was assigned to three countries before I
hit Florida.

Mr. Wides. All in the Western Hemisphere Division?

Mr. Sarno. All in the Western Hemisphere.

Mr. Wides. So you had rather long stations in each of
those, three or four years?

Mr. Sarno. (Nods in the affirmative)

Mr. DeMarco. When did you become an American citizen?

Mr. Sarno. I was born in Ohio.

Mr. DeMarco. Had you been stationed with Mr. Phillips
in Cuba before you came to Miami, or were you in Cuba before
you came to Miami?

Mr. Sarno. Yes.

Mr. Wides. And that is when Jim Noel was the Chief?

Mr. Sarno. Jim Noel was the Chief.

Mr. Wides. And you had contact with Mr. Phillips then?

DocId:32202440 Page 4 TOP SECRET

--- Page 5 ---

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

HW 50955

TOP SECRET

Mr. Wides. You never heard of any plots, nor of any
arrested people attempting to shoot a bazooka when he was
giving a speech at Havana Stadium?

Mr. Sarno. No, sir.

Mr. Wides. Let me go to the period when you went to
Florida.

When you first came here, that was before Station Chief
Noel had moved the whole station to Miami?

Mr. Sarno. Noel wasn't there. When I arrived in Florida,
Noel was not then -- no, sir, he was not the station chief.

Mr. Wides. Who was the station chief?

Mr. Sarno. I don't think I should give you his name.
I don't know. You have the rest of all of them, but I can't
recall --

I can state that there were two station chiefs between
Noel and Shackley, three of them, in fact.

Mr. Wides. Shackley came in when, 1963?

Mr. Sarno. '62.

Mr. Wides. When in '62?

Mr. Sarno. I think the spring of '62 is when it was.

Mr. Wides. When was he replaced by Mr. Dimmer?

Mr. Sarno. If I am not mistaken, it was in '64, I think.
June, July, I think, something like that, of '64.

Mr. Wides. And then Mr. Dimmer was replaced in '66 by
Mr. Hines, Paul Hines?

DocId:32202440 Page 5 TOP SECRET

--- Page 6 ---

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

HW 50955

TOP SECRET

Mr. Sarno. Hines.

Mr. Wides. And then Mr. Esterline replaced Mr. Hines
or was there someone between?

Mr. Sarno. Mr. Esterline did not replace Mr. Hines.
Nobody replaced Hines, because they closed up the station.

Mr. Wides. We understand that the station was operating
very recently.

Mr. Sarno. Well, I'm not saying -- you see, the station
you spoke to before, you spoke of, went out of business in
June of 1960 when Mr. Hines left.

Mr. Wides. I see.

Now, what was the relationship between yourself and the
station? Administratively, and in terms of reporting, when
you first went down there.

Mr. Sarno. When I first went down there, I was outside.
I believe it was concerning clearances to get me into the
station, because I had never been working in a station before,
so there were special clearances. So at that time, those two
months you're speaking of, I attended a course and I may have
been sent out once or twice to interview a Cuban refugee or
one of our agents who had left Cuba.

Mr. Wides. And then you set up the AMUTS program? Did
you start that project, or was that started when you came in?

Mr. Sarno. It had been started, the nucleus had been
formed at that time.

DocId:32202440 Page 6 TOP SECRET

--- Page 7 ---

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

HW 50955

TOP SECRET

Mr. Wides. And except where there's a question of an
agent under cover who would be possibly exposed to harm or
that kind of thing in regard to the mention of other Agency
people, certainly at the level of Mr. Shackley or other
officials, Mr. Dimmer, and so forth, that the general procedures
have been that people at the Agency or retirees have not
refused to disclose names.

Now, you certainly have your rights --

Mr. Sarno. No, sir. I am not questioning you, or anything
except I've been in this business a long time and I've never
mentioned anybody's name. Now if somebody were to tell me,
if Seymour Bolton were to tell me that I could tell you all the
names of all my supervisors and everything, it's perfectly all
right. But I've never mentioned a name and I feel that I
shouldn't mention a name.

Mr. Wides. Well, we may have to take a break and do that,
but let me go on.

With regard to the AMUTS program, the AMUTS Cubans were
not contract agents of the station, is that correct?

Mr. Sarno. No, sir.

Mr. Wides. They were proprietary employees essentially of
LASER, essentially?

Mr. Sarno. LASER was a group -- that proprietary was
set up in September of 1968. Prior to that time they were a
bunch of Cubans just living down in Miami.

DocId:32202440 Page 7 TOP SECRET

--- Page 8 ---

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

HW 50955

TOP SECRET

Mr. Wides. And what was their relationship to the Agency
through you?

Mr. Sarno. They were a group of Cuban exiles who were
being funded to collect information, intelligence information,
on Cuba.

Mr. Wides. They were paid agents?

Mr. Sarno. They were paid agents.

Mr. Wides. Some of them received a fairly sophisticated
training in tradecraft, in some cases communications intercept
operations with regard to a station in Florida, and so forth,
is that not correct?

Mr. Sarno. Sophisticated equipment, yes, sir.

Mr. Wides. And tradecraft, general tradecraft training?

Mr. Sarno. General tradecraft training, yes, sir.
Communications. training -- well, most of them weren't
communicators, so they required very little if they did
receive training.

Mr. Wides. Would that put them in a little bit more
official status of some sort, whatever the category is called,
than simply being a paid informant?

Mr. Sarno. No, sir. They were just like paid informants
except we provided them funds to operate with.

They are no more -- they are not contract, we did not
have them under contract.

Mr. Wides. But they would still get training?

DocId:32202440 Page 8 TOP SECRET

--- Page 9 ---

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

HW 50955

TOP SECRET

Mr. Sarno. Yes, sir.

Mr. Wides. And the program first operated where? Where
did you physically locate? Were you at the University of
Miami, at the Naval Air Station at the beginning?

Mr. Sarno. No, sir.

Mr. Wides. Where were you at first?

Mr. Sarno. Are you speaking of our station? Our station
was physically at the Air Station, but these Cubans did not
know where the station was.

Mr. Wides. And you just contacted them separately?

Mr. Sarno. They had houses that they rented and they worked
out of different houses, and there were many of them, so I
can't recall them.

Mr. Wides. Did you have an office facility apart from the
station?

Mr. Sarno. Myself?

Mr. Wides. Yes.

Mr. Sarno. On one occasion, for a very short period, I
had an office.

Mr. Wides. Where was the Zenith Corporation?

Mr. Sarno. The Zenith Corporation was located on the
campus of Miami.

Mr. Wides. Apart from the station?

Mr. Sarno. No, sir.

Mr. Wides. That was a cover?

DocId:32202440 Page 9 TOP SECRET

--- Page 10 ---

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

HW 50955

TOP SECRET

Mr. Sarno. That was the station.

Mr. Wides. And what was the mission and purpose of
AMUTS, when you first started out, as indicated in the project
outline?

Mr. Sarno. They were to collect intelligence on Cuba,
debrief refugees and provide bodies for any possible operations
required by the station.

Mr. Wides. They were to debrief refugees?

Mr. Sarno. Debrief refugees, collect and evaluate, maintain
records.

Mr. Wides. Was there a division of the AMUTS members into
two groups, with only a small group involving the debriefing
of Cuban refugees?

Mr. Sarno. Well, it wasn't too small a group, but if you
would speak of the whole organization overall, yes, it was a
small group.

Mr. Wides. And at what point did you set up any cover
apart from the station as a proprietary or notional company
in between the AMUTS people and the Miami station? In other
words, were the companies prior to the Latin America social
and economic research company that preceeded it, in time?

Mr. Sarno. In the time that I handled them, which is
up to the LASER, I think there were three, three covers all
told, or perhaps four. I think we had our debriefing, you
know, under one cover.

DocId:32202440 Page 10 TOP SECRET

--- Page 11 ---

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

HW 50955

TOP SECRET

Mr. Wides. That was from the start? You had a separate
cover for the debriefing?

Mr. Sarno. Well, from the start we didn't have a place
for them, and it wasn't pulled together as a debriefing unit.
When a large flow of refugees started to come in is when we set
up the special unit.

Mr. Wides. When was that?

Mr. Sarno. Well, they cut off --

Mr. Wides. '64, '63?

Mr. Sarno. It could have been '62, late '62 or '63. And
before, we used to send our debriefers, they were within the
AMUTS group, specialists in debriefing, area specialists is
the kind we used. And we would go out to the reception center
and check around and see who had come out of the particular
area.

Mr. Wides. At Opa-Locka?

Mr. Sarno. At Opa-Locka.

And our debriefers would go out and check around with the
people who came in and try to spot somebody who would be
interesting to interview, debrief, concerning the particular
area. And so they usually picked them up in a car and either
took them to a restaurant or took them to a motel or something
and would debrief them. And then we found that it would be
better to get a building for them to be in where we located
them altogether, where they could prepare their reports and

DocId:32202440 Page 11 TOP SECRET

--- Page 12 ---

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

HW 50955

TOP SECRET

everything.

Mr. Wides. And so that's when you first set up the
proprietary for the smaller debriefing component of AMUTS?

Mr. Sarno. Well, I set up the proprietaries, the notional
company for a small debriefing office, and at the same time,
we rented a building, a larger building, and they used to
operate in Coral Gables, received some publicity and we moved
them out of Coral Gables to near the airport in a building where
the main office was, where this main office was, where these
reports from the debriefers or any other information was
collected would be processed, typed in finished form, translated
and provided to us.

Mr. Wides. About how many people did you have in AMUTS,
Cubans at that time?

Mr. Sarno. Well, that's difficult to say.

Mr. Wides. 150? Would you say 150?

Mr. Sarno. I would say inside, outside, it could be
close to 150.

Mr. Wides. Did you have more than a dozen or so working
in the component on debriefing?

Mr. Sarno. As I recall, at one time -- as I recall it,
we had about 22, 23 people working in debriefing.

Mr. Wides. And apart from those Cubans, you had a staff
under you of assistants and secretaries who were Agency
assigned personnel?

DocId:32202440 Page 12 TOP SECRET

--- Page 13 ---

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

HW 50955

TOP SECRET

Mr. Sarno. Yes.

Mr. Wides. What kind of staff did you have?

Mr. Sarno. Well, it started off originally since we
weren't big, I started off with one secretary, and it eventually
ended up that there were one or two Intel assistants --

Mr. Wides. These were Agency personnel?

Mr. Sarno. Agency personnel.
and two or three case officers.

Mr. Wides. The case officers handled segments of the
AMUTS?

Mr. Sarno. Segments of the AMUTS.

Mr. Wides. Now, the other, speaking very roughly, hundred
and fifty or so AMUTS Cubans, you said some twenty were
involved when the debriefing program intensified. What were
the other hundred-odd Cubans involved in?

Mr. Sarno. Well, we had records personnel, we had
I would say six or seven who only worked in records and main-
taining of files, and general index cards, and that was it.
Then we had what we called our reports section which may have
had about fifteen people, twenty people, who wrote reports,
checked them out, cross-referenced, and everything else that
was involved in that.

Mr. Wides. What kind of reports did they write? What
were they writing reports about?

Mr. Sarno. Economic -- whatever they were learning from

DocId:32202440 Page 13 TOP SECRET

--- Page 14 ---

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

HW 50955

TOP SECRET

against Cuba, and had weapons they weren't supposed to have.

Mr. Wides. Like Alpha-66?

Mr. Sarno. Alpha-66, there were many of them.

And we usually had one of our outside types, either
recruit or get next to an individual of the group and he would
penetrate the group himself to report to us what they were
doing.

Mr. Wides. Do you recall the flights of the Diaz, or one
of the Diaz brothers, over Havana dropping leaflets?

Mr. Sarno. What date was it?

Mr. Wides. I believe it was quite early, and it was not
in connection with the AMUTS.

Mr. Sarno. I know the Diaz brothers.

Mr. Wides. Do you recall hearing of flights with -- one
of them with Frank Sturgis over Havana dropping leaflets?

Mr. Sarno. No, sir.

Mr. Wides. It was fairly widely known.

Mr. Sarno. Well, I didn't get into Cubans until maybe
it was June of '60, but the only leaflets I ever saw fly over
Cuba was the day before the invasion. Those were the only
ones I saw.

Mr. Wides. When you were in Miami, did you have any
contact with Frank Sturgis, Frank Fiorini?

Mr. Sarno. Never, never. To my knowledge, he never worked
for us.

DocId:32202440 Page 14 TOP SECRET

--- Page 15 ---

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

HW 50955

TOP SECRET

Mr. Wides. Not getting back to the bulk of the AMUTS
group, apart from the reporting on refugees and the efforts
to keep tabs, which I guess is a summary of what you are
saying on what exile groups might be doing that the government
might otherwise not know about, is it correct that there was
surveillance of the Miami community generally with regard to
possible Castro agents?

Mr. Sarno. Not that I know of.

Mr. Wides. There was no counterintelligence program in
the AMUTS?

Mr. Sarno. We had a counterintelligence component in the
AMUTS Program.

Mr. Wides. Why don't you describe that?

Mr. Sarno. The counterintelligence program consisted of
very capable Cubans who knew of the former -- the set-up of
the intelligence agency inside of Cuba, so if anybody were to
come out, any refugee were to come out and name an individual
that was a friend of theirs that we knew or suspected of
working for the internal security which was the DSE or their
external service, the DGI, our counterintelligence group or
one of the individuals would go out and debrief the fellow
and collect names, and prepare reports on it, and they maintained
files, and that is what it is.

They never got under a surveillance of any of them, because
once a report was written they suspected somebody. They maintain:

DocId:32202440 Page 15 TOP SECRET

--- Page 16 ---

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

HW 50955

TOP SECRET

a file of them, and when Cuban refugees would come in, they
would receive lists of names to check in their files, and if
they suspected one, then they would gather all of the
information possible on this individual, prepare a report,
name their sources, and they would pass it to the station.
The station in turn would prepare a memorandum and send it to
the bureau.

Mr. Wides. Is it your sworn testimony that you never knew
of any surveillances or efforts to penetrate groups for
counterintelligence purposes by Cubans under your supervision?

Mr. Sarno. No, sir, no. You're speaking of penetrating
groups, yes. They penetrated groups. Surveillance -- I never
sent them out on a mission to surveil anybody concerning whether
they were suspect or whatever.

Mr. Wides. Was there any surveillance of Cubans in Miami
conducted by -- whether it was in cooperation with the Bureau
or not -- conducted by any of the AMUTS Cubans that you were
aware of?

Mr. Sarno. I cannot recall if there ever was.

Mr. Wides. I don't mean a specific one.

Mr. Sarno. I don't recall ever giving them any assignments.

Mr. Wides. I'm not talking about assignments, I'm
talking about whether you're aware of their conducting --

Mr. Sarno. As I say, I do not recall them conducting
any surveillance on anybody.

DocId:32202440 Page 16 TOP SECRET

--- Page 17 ---

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

HW 50955

TOP SECRET

Mr. Wides. Any telephone taps?

Mr. Sarno. Never any telephone taps, we didn't have
telephone tap capability.

Mr. Wides. Any photography?

Mr. Sarno. We had a photographer.

Mr. Wides. When was he used? In what circumstances?

Mr. Sarno. Well, the biggest majority of his work was
to copy certain documents.

Mr. Wides. I mean photographic surveillance.

Mr. Sarno. There may have been. I really can't state
which one he was used on if he was ever used for photographic
surveillance.

Mr. Wides. Which what he was used on?

Mr. Sarno. I mean if he was used on photographic
surveillance. I don't recall ever ordering him out on photo-
graphic surveillance.

Mr. Wides. Do you recall if there ever was any photo-
graphic surveillance carried out by any of the AMUTS?

Mr. Sarno. I have no recollection. I do not recall.

Mr. Wides. Were you getting reports of any sort, whether
you would characterize it as surveillance or not; on people
who had already come and were in Miami as distinct from the
interview reports when the refugees first came?

Isn't it correct that the AMUTS personnel were providing
you with reports on Cubans who were already in Miami?

DocId:32202440 Page 17 TOP SECRET

--- Page 18 ---

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

HW 50955

TOP SECRET

Mr. Sarno. Yes, sir.

Mr. Wides. Would you describe that program?

Mr. Sarno. Certainly. As I said, they penetrated these
groups, they would go around and then they would sit and talk
and as you would call it, the surveillance, the fact that they
penetrated, they would sit at the table and report on the
individual and what the individual said and what they were
planning. We call it penetration.

To me, surveillance is to put two men on the street
following somebody from one place to another.

Mr. Wides. Were there ever occasions when the station
was suspicious as to whether Cubans in Miami might be Castro
agents that you were aware of?

Mr. Sarno. Many.

Mr. Wides. Did they ever ask for any assistance in the
AMUTS group in trying to keep tabs on those individuals or
to test their suspicions?

Mr. Sarno. No, sir.

Mr. Wides. Who would do that?

Mr. Sarno. It would be the CI section of the station.

Mr. Wides. You don't recall any situation in which --

Mr Sarno. In which AMUTS participated? No, sir.

Mr. Wides. -- working with the FBI.

Mr. Sarno. The FBI occasionally would ask for the
services of one of the AMUTS, but it was mainly not to surveil

DocId:32202440 Page 18 TOP SECRET

--- Page 19 ---

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

HW 50955

TOP SECRET

anybody. It was to provide information to them because their
name would come up somewhere in a case.

Mr. Wides. What kind of assistance? You mean more than
just a chance to interview them?

Mr. Sarno. No, just interview. They never used them to
run a man on the street or anything like that, no, sir.

They tried to get one individual one time and they didn't know
that he worked for us and they tried to hire him and he came
back and reported it. We had to advise them that he was
already working for us.

Mr. Wides. And you had 115 men and all---

Mr. Sarno. There were women also, sir.

Mr. Wides. And women, and all they were doing was
interviewing refugees and writing reports on exile potential
activities against Cuba?

Mr. Sarno. I would say that was the biggest majority of
their job.

Mr. Wides. What was the rest of it?

Mr Sarno. They also went out, if our station was going
to run an operation and they needed X amount of bodies, certain
specialized personnel, the AMUTS would go and locate the
personnel, talk to them, spot them, get their personal history
from them, send it in, and the people would be traced out and
checked and cleared and eventually introduced to the station
case officer who would use them in our operations.

DocId:32202440 Page 19 TOP SECRET

--- Page 20 ---

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

HW 50955

TOP SECRET

Mr. Wides. Who arranged for the training at the training
station at Parrott, was that used?

Mr. Sarno. For whom?

Mr. Wides. When the AMUTS people received training, some
various kind of tradecraft, who would arrange that, yourself?

Mr. Sarno. December, 1961 when I took it over there were
only three cases of AMUTS who were sent away for special
training. Three cases, three individuals.

One came here to Washington, the other was going to be
loaned to a station overseas. He came up and received training.
The majority of the training given to the AMUTS was down in
Miami, Florida.

Mr. Wides. And what kind was that?

Mr. Sarno. Basic tradecraft, reports writing

Mr. Wides. Did they ever get training in surveillance?

Mr. Sarno. Yes, they received training in surveillance.

Mr. Wides. Why did they get that?

Mr. Sarno. Well, that is part of their program of
training them as a group.

Mr. Wides. Even though there was no use of them for
surveillance purposes?

Mr. Sarno. I do not recall, sir, ever sending them out
on a surveillance.

Mr. DeMarco. Who conducted the training?

Mr. Sarno. Our Training Branch, personnel from our

HW 50955 DocId:32202440 Page 20 TOP SECRET

--- Page 21 ---

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

HW 50955

TOP SECRET

Training Branch.

Mr. DeMarco. From Washington?

Mr. Sarno. Yes.

Mr. Wides. You say the majority of the training was in
Florida. What period are we talking about, throughout the
period?

Mr. Sarno. It could be spread over. Reports writing,
for instance, when the Agency, or when the station was being
cut back in personnel, this group used to produce tons of
reports, and when our station was being cut, the staff was
being cut, I convinced the Chief of Station into having the
reports officers, for instance, trained to prepare reports
which would require very little editing or preparation once
it arrived in the station, which would take a load off the
station, and it was agreed to.

Mr. Wides. You arranged in general for the training or
the training office?

Mr. Sarno. I never trained.

Mr. Wides. But they worked through you administratively?

Mr. Sarno. Yes.

Mr. Wides. So you were familiar with all the training
AMUTS personnel would have got?

Mr. Sarno. I would say all of the training that they
received during the period I was with them, with the exception
of that one year there, and also I must state that although I

DocId:32202440 Page 21 TOP SECRET

--- Page 22 ---

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

HW 50955

TOP SECRET

Mr. Wides. There were some new people coming in?

Mr. Sarno. Yes. Some of the people would move, they got
a job that paid them more, but there were very few that came
in after the original, say about 1964 I would say it was well
established and very few dropped out or were taken aboard there-
after.

Mr. Wides. They all got what you referred to earlier as
basic tradecraft training?

Mr. Sarno. No, not all of them.

Mr. Wides. How many?

Mr. Sarno. There were very few of them in the original
group. I never had them trained in basic tradecraft. The
original group which I took over which, if I am not mistaken,
was about eighteen of them, and I understand that prior to
the Bay of Pigs --

Mr. Wides. Eighteen in AMUTS or eighteen in training?

Mr. Sarno. Eighteen in AMUTS all told.

I understood that prior to the Bay of Pigs these AMUTS
had been given basic tradecraft training. I never once sent
them out to receive basic tradecraft training.

Mr. Wides. After you came -- when you came there were
eighteen AMUTS and eventually we're talking about 150, roughly,
or more?

Mr. Sarno. Yes, sir.

Mr. Wides. And you never knew of any of the people who

DocId:32202440 Page 22 TOP SECRET

--- Page 23 ---

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

HW 50955

TOP SECRET

joined AMUTS after you took over getting general tradecraft?

Mr. Sarno. No, sir, no, sir.

Mr. Wides. And to your knowledge it was only report
writing?

Mr. Sarno. Well, they trained them in each one of the
sections, and I didn't train the debriefers, so if a new man
was hired and he was put in a debriefing, he was trained
usually by the Chief of the Debriefing Group, he was put in
there to work along with other debriefers to catch onto the
thing.

Mr. Wides. Now your testimony with regard to surveillance
training, who issued that, or how many people?

Mr. Sarno. If I am not mistaken, it was four or five.

Mr. Wides. When you first came