157-10002-10106 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

Date: 09/30/93
Page: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10002-10106
RECORDS SERIES :
TRANSCRIPT
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : R-398

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA
FROM :
TO:

TITLE :
TESTIMONY OF WILLIAM K. HARVEY

DATE : 06/25/75
PAGES: 96
SUBJECTS :
OPERATION MONGOOSE
ROSELLI, JOHNNY
CASTRO
ASSASSINATION
POISON PILLS
CUBA
MCCONE, JOHN
CIA
BISSELL, RICHARD
WHITE HOUSE
MAFIA
ROWAN, DAN
GIANCANA, SAM

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/30/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :
Box 245
Folder 14

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DocId: 32281946
Page 1

--- Page 2 ---

SECRET

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED

21 JUN 94

Project ZRRIFLE
HARVEY EX! R371
6/25/75

1. Identification: The purpose of Project ZRRIFLE is to spot, develop, and use faction agent assets for Division D operations. Agents will be spotted in several areas, including the United States, but it is for operational security reasons will probably not be used in their countries of residence. Present developmental activity is being conducted in the WE and EE areas, but it is anticipated that this will be extended to other division areas. The project will be operated against third-country intelligence and personnel.

2. Objectives: The objective of this project with requirements levied on the Clandestine Services, since these requirements are subject to frequent revision, no listing of targets would be valid for the duration of the project. Specific operations will be mounted on the basis of need and opportunity. The project will be conducted by Division D with assistance from area divisions and stations as needed.

3. Background: In response to the increasing requirements, Division D in 1960 began the spotting of agent assets as a developmental activity. During the same period requirements became more refined and in many respects more sensitive. Because most stations are not equipped to conduct this type of operation and because of the desirability of completely centralized control over this entire effort, it was determined that Division D could best conduct the activity. The first spotting activity has now advanced far enough to justify removing from the DSA category.

DocId: 32281946 Page 2

--- Page 3 ---

SECRET

-period requirements
became more refined and in
many respects more sensitive. Because most stations are
not equipped to conduct this type of operation and because
of the desirability of completely centralized control over this
entire effort, it was determined that Division D could
best conduct the activity. The first spotting activity
has now advanced far enough to justify removing from
the DSA category.

4. Operational assets:
(1) Personal: QJWIN is under written contract as a principal agent, with the primary task of spotting agent candidates. QJWIN was first contacted in 1958 in connection with illegal narcotics operation into the United States. For a period of a year and a half he was contacted sporadically in behalf of the Bureau of Narcotics. files of this Bureau reflect an excellent performance by QJWIN. On September 1960,

DocId: 32281946
Page 3

--- Page 4 ---

DocId: 32281946 Page 4
SECRET

QJWIN annual salary: 7,200
Travel + ops expenses for
QJWIN + other agents & agent candidates: 2,000
Fees for services by and
standley of agents and
agent candidates: 2,000
Travel of staff employees o
engaged in ZRRIFLE activity: 2,500
Hire of safehouses automobiles
and other operational expenses: 1,000
Pay for agents on completion of jobs: 14,700

--- Page 5 ---

SECRET

1). Legal, ethical, morale, operational problems; political : non-attributability.

2) Our experience (CIA) (+ of best on DDP) and experience (Alas) require most professional, proven operationally competent, ruthless, stabile, CE-experienced ops officers (few available), able to conduct patent search & refonts to pull back if mistict or knowledge tells him [from high regard for operation seventy he should, & Assessments are all-imports.

3) Maximum security:
a. Kubark only (e.g.; what does / od now know?); no approach to oths Sant agencies.
b. Within Kubark, one focal point for control - search, training, case officering, etc - DDP authority in this focal point mandatory. Dei officially cloriced?
c. Max. security cable commco for innocuous cables only; no restrictions on travel; possibility of one-man overseas (Europe) control base with owner (non-station) commo no commor word of mouth t. -backfulness re trips (except for bearch)
d. No PA's or nitermelieries; rigid case-officers, from start to finish.
e. No approach to officials of foreign gauts.
f. No ruse of angles any agent who ever worked for a B.A. Mart- agency Tracing by opposition world reved
g. Use of already tected sets (e.g., Market) in the search.
h. Stand-by hot of Rubarbers who can

DocId: 32281946
Page 5

--- Page 6 ---

DocId: 32281946
Page 6
SECRET

pass as foreigners.
i slavel; this establishes.
f. To discussions in stations. h. No "tequimitel
4. Blackmail.
ready to go if stalls
a. No American citizens or residents or people who ever obtained vis, visa.
b. No chain of connectionic: strictly person to person; singleton ops.
c. The meeting any candidate in home territory
d. Exclude organization ne els, those infrecord of emests, those of instability of jourpose- as criminals.
Haffers muiolved-selections.

5. Cover: planning should include provision for Ablaming Acusor Gacks in case of blow security, blackmail.

6. Testing of nominees essentiative following directions,

7. Former resistance personnel a possibility.

8. We nobody who has never dealt if evenincals; otherwise will pust be aware of pitfalls or consider factors such as - follow to trand, wanted lists, etc..

9. 10. Possible use of staffers for the action. Silverthorne. Keeping of files,

--- Page 7 ---

SECRET

to travel
Legal; operational + ethical> modle problems.
not recure enough.

1) Maximum security & within Hubark only (t.g., how much Livoro?). Phimitation on number code daza w Guise of objective.

3) I'me focal point for resoch, control, tracing, ease-officer + PA. selection. Complete DDP outhority in this focal point mondstory. Oversea one-man contral bose with own (non-station) commos.

3) Every operation to be rigibly case-officered; no sill-shirt PA's. Non-attributability:

4) No No Americare categorce or Pinovican residente for direct action; posibly for approach to foreign elements. No criminal who tainted by rise by another American agency. Use of sy ease officers who can pare as foreigners - and bruited. pass official reference.

5) No chain of connections permitting blackmail. Don't meet any selectie in home territory

7) Avoid defcoursion inf foreign officials mitil all possibility of search through private citizens (eg, fin) has been examined.

8). Plamming should include prsution for Hoviets (or becks) in case of blow. is 4 above essential.

9) Exclude organization aminals, those with record of esto, those who have engaged in several types of crime.

DocId: 32281946 age 7

--- Page 8 ---

SECRET

squemended.

(11) Former resistance persund offer possibilition, (als archies S

12) Period of testing, surveillance, etc. for each selectee.

all
(13) bubark presumed involved should have some CE experienice.

14) Chan stable

15) Wheat are limits on team or individuals sole selected? No "team" until ready to go.

16) For Danger of staredays,

DocId: 32281946 Page 8

--- Page 9 ---

SECRET

Eyes &ation
"The magic button
parcatics Büro
" for a living
RIS 201 Cover
Cautions - Bankruptcy.
eixes Jum
A.
not a TSD problem
18 apply brakes.
no stor
Contractinct
from U-2
Last resort beyond lost resail &
a confession in wakes.
El Benefactor.
acsumphores
00
Framewo
work
26/1..
Year
Example or 3 "wrong"
Jaho
течно
CROCI matter
no filme -

1. Select proper offerer to run-
3. Security Rules
4. Muine leves.
max 2
B-WIN-AS--
Resew.

DocId: 32281946 Rage Resort - Brakes -- berka

--- Page 10 ---

SECRET

6. No.
7. no project or papers except per comes.
8 Principal agent-
Progic Cheft FCH -
"teabel 1500 - from PB-
mach-spatid.
project.
G. disparal
die Dlike
d
10. Targets who mikers.
must know befo
we can spot

11. case officering
13-
7d Ilest - Remember

DocId: 32281946
Page 10
