157-10011-10085 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

Date: 10/06/93
Page: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: 157-10011-10085
RECORDS SERIES:
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR: UNKNOWN
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: MEETING WITH DCS HEADQUARTERS' OFFICERS
DATE: 07/09/70
PAGES: 4
SUBJECTS: MEETING WITH DCS HEADQUARTERS' OFFICERS [R]
STETSON, SHIRLEY; WILSON, JOHN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: U
RESTRICTIONS: REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS: P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/29/93
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS:
SSCI Box 292, Folder 12

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HW 50955 DocId: 322036853 Page 1

---

SSCI Box #292, Folder 12 9 July 1970

SUBJECT: Meeting with DCS Headquarters' Officers

Shirley STETSON, for at least ten years the backbone of DCS/OSS and recently reassigned to DCS/Washington, and John WILSON, recently designated as Jim DURBIN's replacement in Raleigh-Durham-Chapel Hill Office which covers North and South Carolina, visited CI/SG on 9 July 1970 and were briefed by a CIA officer and the writer from CIA officer (could not accompany) and from 1100 to 1200 hours. This was followed by lunch and discussions until 1315 hours.

2. The following highlights are made a matter of record:

a. Reports from "Chico" concerning B'Nai Brith in NYC are still being received by DCS but, as is the custom, they are being sent to a CIA officer in CI/SPG initially, rather than to CI/SO. It is believed that he has been absent for about two months and this may account for the fact that CI/SO has not been receiving the material.

b. Upon the departure of STETSON for Washington and of a CIA officer for LA, HOLICK will assume responsibility for Case 52722. HOLICK has just completed his CT program and before that spent a year in DCS on the Soviet Block Desk where he handled nuclear matters. He is well-regarded.

c. John WILSON is young, short, red-haired, aggressive, slow-speaking, former CT who has spent two years in DCS Headquarters. He previously served as a missionary for the Mormon Church in Austria with his wife. He stems from Ogden, Utah and the writer opines that he could be slated for the job of Gen. Sterling RYSOR's replacement in Salt Lake City in five to ten years when RYSOR retires. WILSON is sensitive, flushes easily, has a friendly somewhat-shy manner yet expresses his opinions easily. He does not come across as a ball of fire or a personality guy but seems serious and level-headed. As he has associated with many Mormons, he seems to save his greatest enthusiasm for discussion of the Mormon Church. How true it is that there is no such thing as a half-committed result of his year or two of missionary duty in Austria with 300.

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

HW 50955 Page 14
