157-10014-10125 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System Date: 7/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: 157-10014-10125
RECORD SERIES: MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 07-M-31

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: SSCIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 03/10/1976
PAGES: 78
SUBJECTS: SSCSGO, METHODOLOGY, COMMITTEE BUSINESS
DOCUMENT TYPE: TRANSCRIPT
CLASSIFICATION: Declassified
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/22/2000
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: CCBOX 324

v9.1

HW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
Date: 08/07/95
Page: 1

AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: 157-10014-10125
RECORDS SERIES: MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 07-M-31

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR: SSCIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 03/10/76
PAGES: 78
SUBJECTS: SSCSGO, METHODOLOGY, COMMITTEE BUSINESS
DOCUMENT TYPE: TRANSCRIPT
CLASSIFICATION: TOP SECRET
RESTRICTIONS: REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS: POSTPONED IN FULL
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/05/99
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: CCBOX 324

HW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 2
[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TOP SECRET
Vol. 2 OF 3
NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
Unauthorized Disclosure: Subject to Criminal Sanctions.
R2829
The United States Senate
Report of Proceedings
Hearings held before
Senate Select Committee to Study Governmental
Operations With Respect to Intelligence Activities
Wednesday, March 10, 1976
Washington, DC
(Stenotype Tape and Waste turned over
to the Committee for destruction)

WARD & PAUL
410 FIRST STREET, S. E.
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20003
(202) 544-6000

HW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 3

TOP SECRET

WARD/smnl
TOP SECRET
FOREIGN AND MILITARY SUBCOMMITTEE MEETING
Wednesday, March 10, 1976

United States Senate,
Select Committee to Study Governmental
Operations with Respect to
Intelligence Activities,
Washington, D. C.
The Committee met, pursuant to notice, at 2:45 o'clock
p.m., in Room S-407, the Capitol, the Honorable Walter D.
Huddleston presiding.
Present: Senators Huddleston (presiding); Hart of
Colorado and Mathias.
Staff: William G. Miller, Staff Director, and David
Aaron, Joseph diGenova, Lynn Davis, William Bader, Elizabeth
Culbreath, Charles Kirbow, Rick Inderfurth, Pat Shea, Elliot
Maxwell and Al Quanbeck, Professional Staff Members,

HW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 4
TAP READER

TOP SECRET
And then the question is whether or not there is a prohi-
bition on printing in the English language.
Mr. Bader. And as I heard the consensus this morning,
we would not move to that recommendation for a prohibition.
I did not hear whether on the distribution this would be by
law, though I took it it was to be by law, though I can be
corrected on that. I don't think we addressed that this morning.
Mr. Kirbow. Mr. Chairman, on these that we considered
to be rather that we have a fairly light record on or that
we are not too sure what the future holds, one of the members
that I rode over with on the car suggested that perhaps in those
instances we could recommend fairly strongly whatever we want
the followon people to do to ensure that the recommendation
does not create havoc within the Agency or does not leave the
rights of citizens unprotected.
But that is not a cop out. It is something that you
frequently do, say, let us reserve this for the permanent
oversight committee or for whatever other group. We may have
all the information we need.
Senator Huddleston. Let them make the determination whether
or not it should be a statute.
Mr. Kirbow. Determine whether in the law whether it is
working all right under the set of regulations.
Mr. Bader. Mr. Chairman, may I say in this instance in
the publishing trade there is no lack of record? The evidence

HW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 5
TAP READER

TOP SECRET
PROCEEDINGS
Senator Huddleston: I call the Committee to order.
Mr. Aaron. I believe Bill Bader had the temerity to
summarize where we stand.
Mr. Bader. Mr. Chairman, where I think we are at the
moment is taking the three major issues before the Subcommittee
in the order they were presented, and discussed this morning,
the first being the academic issue, and as I heard the Subcom-
mittee this morning, then I will have another go at the
options, give enough options in the option paper and bring it
back before the Committee for a further look before we go on.
Senator Huddleston: By Friday.
Mr. Bader. By Friday, without question.
I think by this time we will all have - we will try to
include a positive option, that is to say, to approve if not
applaud the expanded efforts of FRD to undertake these activi-
ties, or at least to endorse them.
Now, going to the second was the covert use of books and
publishing houses. We discussed two recommendations: one which
I believe here the Committee has agreed to, and that is a
prohibition on the distribution or subsidy of any books,
magazines or other publications not attributed to the CIA in-
side the United States.
Senator Huddleston. I think we can all accept that, can't
we.

HW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 6

TOP SECRET
and inquiry into it has been thorough, and I think we know this
well. There is no dispute from the Agency.
Senator Huddleston: Well, is the law inconsistent with
the statute on the information service?
Mr. Bader. It is the same thing. I would recommend,
Mr. Chairman, that this would be by law, by statute.
Senator Huddleston. On the publication.
Mr. Bader. On the publication.
Senator Mathias. I would support that.
Senator Huddleston. I think Gary Hart would also, so I
think we will make that recommendation, that this one on the
academics is the one we are not sure of.
Mr. Bader. That's the one we would go forward with, and
now we are moving to - I would also reiterate that in our
session the other night, I took it as agreement that the
recommendation by statute the CIA should be prohibited from
making operational use of all educational and cultural
grantees of all U.S. Government sponsored programs, this was the
issue which was raised of government funded programs such as
the Fulbright program.
Senator Huddleston. And that's either already a regulation
or a directive or something to that effect.
Mr. Aaron. Certain categories.
Mr. Bader. Certain categories.
Mr. Kirbow. That is brand new ground.

HW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 7
TAP READER

TOP SECRET
Mr. diGenova. The John McCloy exceptions to that rule, they
are the only ones that are protected.
Mr. Aaron. That justifies Charles' view that there are
some similarities between Ford Foundation and Government
sponsored activities.
Mr. Bader. Where our discussion was left before lunch
was on the question of the covert use of U.S. journalists and
media institutions, and as it was laid out, it was indicated
that the CIA's intended internal prohibition on the use of the
media extended to the internal prohibitions on the use, opera-
tional use of individuals, American and foreign, who were
accredited to American media organizations.
As I heard it this morning, what we were discussing and
moving to was to extend that prohibition to cover all American
individuals and media organizations, and that the question then
was whether this would be recommended to be something done in
law or a recommendation, or an insistence, if you will, to the
Agency that it further amend its internal directives, its
50-10, to put all media personnel, American media personnel on
the prohibited list, and that is I think where we were.
Senator Huddleston. I think that's an accurate statement.
That's where we were.
I had expressed a thought that I thought that it ought to
be expanded to include all, but we should hold off on the
statute business for the time being.

HW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 8

TOP SECRET
Senator Mathias. My role here seems to be the Devil's
advocate.
Senator Huddleston. Good.
Senator Mathias. There is no question about the writing
American press or the value in print domestically. Maybe the
role, any legitimate role that news men could, journalists,
writers could fulfill is available through the information
agencies, USIA and groups of that sort.
So does anybody know whether there is any real need
for allowing some latitude, which is not covered by situations
that can be envisioned under USIA or other programs?
Mr. Kirbow. Well, Senator, the one that I discussed earlier
that I probably didn't make my point well because no one
seemed to have picked it up, is we do, by the words here, if I
understand Mr. Bader, prohibit an American citizen living in
Brussels and working for a local newspaper there from having
anything to do with the CIA.
Senator Huddleston. No we don't, do we?
You mean by his extension?
Mr. Kirbow. Yes, sir.
Senator Huddleston. But not by -
Mr. Kirbow. But wasn't that what you wanted to put in
the law, that you didn't know if you wanted -
Senator Mathias. This is the point I wanted to raise
here.

HW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 9
TAP

TOP SECRET
Mr. Kirbow. That kind of relationship is something that
we should stay away from because I don't see any harm in it,
nor do I think the record demonstrates any harm in it. I don't
see - I don't know how in the world this person doing that
taints the minds of the American reading public, which is
apparently what you are trying - you're not trying to protect
the newsman. You are trying to protect the reader who doesn't
know that what he's getting is being spoonfed to him from the
CIA, and I don't know why we would be so concerned about
protecting newsmen from working, or prohibiting them from
working, because I think they have a right to do that as
American citizens, just as they do to work with the Department
of Defense or any other agency.
Mr. Bader. You would then rescind the Agency's standing
prohibition?
Mr. Kirbow. I just don't think you ever prohibit it in
law.
Mr. diGenova. Are you talking bout an affiliated,
accredited journalist, because that's what the Agency regulation
deals with. It doesn't deal with an American citizen. It
deals with an accredited person, whether he is a foreign
national or an American.
Mr. Bader. To an American media organization.
Mr. diGenova. But that's not the example Charles gave
you.

HW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 10
TAP

TOP SECRET
Mr. Kirbow. Well, perhaps I misunderstand the extension
that you, your full recommendation.
Do you want to go beyond where the administration is in
their position?
Mr. Bader. I am recommending to go beyond where the
Administration is at this stage, to extend the operational
prohibition on the part of CIA to use American - Americans in
the media -
Mr. Kirbow. Wherever located.
Mr. Bader. Where they are using them undercover, at this
stage, to the extent that it is a cover proposition.
Senator Huddleston. Even if they are in foreign media?
Mr. Bader. Yes, sir.
Senator Huddleston. And even though all of their
activities are related to foreign; they are not writing for
American news services.
Mr. Bader. Alternately; they could be with American
media organizations.
Mr. Kirbow. Mr. Chairman, I don't think there is a single
shred of evidence on our record that that is in any way wrong-
doing or in any way adversely affects the rights of American
citizens. Clearly it will prohibit or could prohibit in the
future the proper use of an individual that could be essential
to the intelligence collection processes of the CIA, and it
singles out a specific agency which is not doing any harm to

HW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 11

TOP SECRET
the American citizenry, and says no, you cannot do this because
you happen to be a secret organization.
Senator Mathias. If I wanted to do it, Charlie, I think
I could work out a scheme. I would hire a prominent American
columnist to go and live in Paris, as Art Buchwald did, for
example.
Mr. Kirbow. And to pick off his columns and run them
in the New York Times.
Senator Mathias. And run them in the Paris Trib first,
and then let the domestic press pick him up.
Mr. Kirbow. But if he's in the Paris Trib, that's an
affiliated U.S. -
Mr. Aaron. Well, suppose he writes for the Financial
Times?
Senator Mathias. Well, you could work out an echo program
if you wanted.
Senator Huddleston. Well, the basic point, instead
of picking instances, it seems to me, is whether or not as an
official policy of the United States Government we want an
institution such as the press with all it means and all it is
supposed to be in American with its constitutional provisions and
whatever, to be subverted to the secret, clandestine operation
that it can; Anytime we put any prohibition anywhere, we are
eliminating somebody as a potential agent. You can't use
that as a guideline.

HW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 12

TOP SECRET
Mr. Kirbow. These people are not necessarily subverted.
Senator Huddleston. I'm talking about the institution of
the free press being subverted, not the individual.
Mr. Kirbow. I'll extend that one further. I don't see
how using them for cover, which has no direct effect, like the
example I guess you gave, Senator, of a vice president of a
bureau of some sort who has nothing to do with the writing or
editing or anything; he is the business head of the operation
just like any other corporation. This thing extends to that.
Senator Huddleston. He may have something do with the
selection of the people who do write.
Mr. Kirbow. Well, if you could give us an abuse that we
are trying to correct, or some reason for it?
Mr. Bader. It's not a question of abuse, it's a question
of the use, the operational use of an institution such as
the press for operational purposes.
Mr. Kirbow. Well, explain then, and perhaps I'm going -
explain the sanctity of the press if it is not to protect an
uninformed reader from having his mind tainted by the relation-
ship. What is the sanctity of the press as an organization?
It is not sanctity like the church and state. I just don't
see the record for this.
Senator Huddleston. Well, the clergy and the press I think
are institutions.
Mr. Kirbow. Well, I think the clergy and maybe the

HW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 13

TOP SECRET
academic, like you say, that teaches the student directly,
but a businessman who happens to have elected going into the
business of running a newspaper or a magazine, to be singled
out and say you as a patriotic American are proscribed against
doing any business, and if you are going to do it with an agency,
you should do it with the whole United States Government. I
don't see how we can single out the CIA and not single out
military or FBI.
Mr. Aaron. Well, I think the domestic group will have -
may well have some recommendations regarding the FBI's covert
use of American media.
Mr. Kirbow. Well, domestic media, obviously.
Mr. Aaron. I would like to say, to take Charles'
example of an American working for a foreign press, and what
the problem is. I think the problem is that you have two
kinds of problems with the press. One is the fact, if it is
operating domestically, if it is working for American media
institutions, it is clear that they are subject to some
manipulation or at least questionable manipulation, and there
are issues in people's minds as to its integrity.
Now, the question goes beyond that to what about people
who might be working for some foreign - American journalists,
American writers or what have you, working for foreign media
institutions. There you have a somewhat more extended
situation. But it seems to me that what you have is the

HW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 14
TAP

TOP SECRET
possibility of the American press getting discredited, having
problems of being able to perform its normal functions in the
world and performing in the United States because it is part
of a clandestine intelligence organization.
Mr. Kirbow. Don't you think that's an individual right
that a person has the right to exercise both ways, instead of
one way?
Mr. Aaron. Charles, what I think I have told the
Committee, I have a real problem with the concept of the
American people having the right to spy, somehow, and these
prohibitions don't go to what people are allowed to do on
the outset. They go to what the Government is allowed to do.
Mr. Maxwell. Well, let's take a different kind of
example.
What would happen if in some way - and it's not, I think,
impossible to imagine - an American citizen was writing full
time for the Communist Party paper in Italy or Portugal or
France.
Now, that obviously would be covered by the example that
Bill has provided as a prohibition.
There are two questions. One is whether the person has
any real operational use that you want to preserve, and second,
whether it goes to the question that David presents, which is
the possible contamination of the American press, which seems
a difficult extension in that example, as well as the possibility

HW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 15
TAP

TOP SECRET
of distortion, the flowback problem in America.
And the second problem seems to be, with an example like
that, is that it seems to - there is very little stock in the
argument, because the argument about distortion of what goes
on in foreign countries and people's perceptions is at the heart
of the question of whether the CIA or any government agency
should be engaged in propaganda, because it is quite possible
the propaganda gets picked up in the same way, and the question
is obviously of line drawing: how do you want to draw the
line.
It strikes me that there may be better ways to draw the
line than the suggested prohibition that Bill has for any
American, regardless of status, or who they write for or what
they are doing.
Mr. Kirbow. By having citizenship as an American -
Mr. Bader. Well, you misunderstood me. I was putting out
the various possibilities.
Let's turn to the text for just a moment and maybe that
will help.
First turn to 61. Let's try to get some idea of what the
problem is before we get to the semantics of it. All right,
just let me go through this, then we'll see what is actually
being recommended here.
I have confused you, obviously, by giving a series of
possibilities, not what the recommendations are.

HW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 16

TOP SECRET
"Ten U.S. news organizations and five U.S. publishing
houses provide cover for CIA agents abroad. Four of the
organizations do not know that they provide this cover."
Then there are some examples.
Mr. Kirbow. Meaning management or individual?
Mr. Bader. Management.
Mr. Kirbow. At any level.
Mr. Bader. At any level.
Mr. Kirbow. All right.
Mr. Bader. Then there are some examples of the kinds of
relationships that the CIA officer engages in intelligence
collection under cover as a roving international news corres-
pondent, a CIA officer under cover as a European representative
of an American company while working as a stringer for a
United States publication engages in intelligence collection
and covert action. In this case the company is aware of the
CIA relationship while the publication is not. Bona fide
journalists who regularly provide the CIA with intelligence,
some are paid regularly while others are not. In one case
the journalist is apparently not aware that the U.S. embassy
official to whom he is providing information is actually a
CIA officer.
Now, what the recommendation here on 64, or the bracketed
recommendations - and I'm sorry I created this situation
by giving various options - by statute the CIA should be

HW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 17
TAP

TOP SECRET
prohibited from using American media organizations for
cover. That is the extent of it.
What is the trouble, Joe?
Mr. diGenova. That seems to be somewhat - that seems
to be a back-off from what the Agency prohibits as well. I mean
do you want to make a recommendation saying that the Agency's
prohibition against using Americans who are accredited -
Mr. Bader. No.
This is the additive. The recommendation here is to
take the Agency's prohibitions which go to the question of,
American and foreign journalists, accredited to American
media organizations, and extend it to what is not covered under
those prohibitions, which is the use of these American media
organizations for cover purposes.
Mr. Maxwell. Is it clear that people who are in media
organizations are not accredited to those organizations?
Mr. Aaron. If they were, then they would be covered.
If they are accredited journalists, then they would not.
Mr. Maxwell. So the issue is whether individuals who
don't write -
Mr. Aaron. But may edit.
Mr. Maxwell. But may edit.
Ms. Culbreath. Or may type it up.
Mr. Aaron. Or may type it up.
Mr. Kirbow. Well, is this the same point that we're

HW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 18

TOP SECRET
talking about less than 25 people, where you are going to make
a statutory prohibition against use of all people in that
category because on page 61 it says, "of the 65 Americans
employed by the CIA in the media field, only a little over
one third are journalists; another third are CIA agents operat-
ing under media cover, and the remaining individuals are either
employed as CIA media proprietaries abroad or are propaganda
writers and consultants."
So we are really talking about making a major prohibition
against a segment of our society where at the present time there
is less than 25 people who have any direct contact with the
reading mind, apparently.
Senator Hart of Colorado. I think, Charlie, it's called
a principle. If it was only one person, you've still got the
problem. I don't think it is the quantity.
Ms. Davis. Bill, in your examples on 61, the first one
at the bottom, would that now be covered under your prohibition?
CIA officer engages in intelligence collection under cover as a
roving international news correspondent?
Mr. Bader. I can't remember from the text here whether
the man is accredited or not.
If he is accredited, it would be covered.
Ms. Davis. If not, he is not additionally covered by your
prohibition.
Senator Huddleston. This does not extend to the example

HW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 19
TAP

TOP SECRET
that you gave, Charlie.
Mr. Kirbow. No, sir, it doesn't here.
Mr. Bader. Only if he is affiliated with that group.
Mr. Kirbow. His affiliation covers anybody who is an
American citizen is forever and hereafter would be prohibited, if
it goes into the statute, from dealing.
Mr. diGenova. That's only one of the possibilities.
Mr. Kirbow. That's one of those recommendations based
on investigation.
Mr. Bader. I wasn't recommending that. I was saying that
was one of the possibilities of the whole list.
Senator Huddleston. But the recommendation at the top
of 64 doesn't cover an American citizen who is using the
foreign media as cover.
Mr. Bader. This would not cover an American citizen who
is, let's say, is working for Stompe, or Le Monde, and who is
not accredited, and at the same time is not accredited to
an American media organization.
It does not cover an American citizen who is a stringer to
a Latin American newspaper unless he is accredited to an American
media organization.
Mr. Kirbow. Let me try one more time, then, to state the
position of not Senator Tower in this case, but another Senator,
as I indicated, spoke to me on this very subject, and indicate
to you that we not do to harm or to prevent the use by the

HW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 20

TOP SECRET
agency of certain people unless in some way that use affects
the rights and/or in some vague way affects the mental processes
to the detriment of the American citizenry, that we don't
concern ourselves with passing laws to protect the person who
reads something that these people do. If you do this, you open
that can of worms which gets you into a prohibition against any
work in the press or elsewhere in a propaganda fashion.
Now, the Committee may decide that propaganda is in fact
something that we should prohibit by law, but doing this
piecemeal like this, it does just exactly that. I see nothing
in our record that indicates that the use of certain of these
people overseas or for cover in any way - there is not
any evidence that it has adversely affected the rights of the
citizens of the United States. There is a potential for
abuse in practically anything secret and covert.
Senator Huddleston. I don't believe the recommendation
at the top of page 64 violates what you have just said.
Mr. Maxwell. I would not think that -
Mr. Kirbow. Well, it says, Mr. Chairman, that by statute,
by statute, which means by law, the CIA should be prohibited
from using American media organizations for cover. We apparently
have 65 people, a portion of which are being used for cover,
and apparently they consider them to be an essential asset, or
they wouldn't be using them.
Is that correct, Mr. Bader?

HW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 21

TOP SECRET
Mr. Bader. The CIA?
Mr. Kirbow. Yes.
Mr. Bader. I would assume that they would have extended
their prohibition to this, or on the other hand one could argue
I don't know what their motives were. It could have been they
felt that this, the first step they took was the one that was
dealing with what the public was demanding.
Mr. Kirbow. Well, I really don't see anything in our
record or any evidence that they have given us or anything
other than a staff position on this which we are trying to
sell the Committee that this is a harmful procedure.
Senator Huddleston. What this does is extends beyond
the practice of journalists to any other person, be it an
executive or clerk or typist or whatever, on the assumption
that you can't be a little bit pregnant. If the agency is
going to be subverted anywhere, not the agency, if the insti-
tution of the press is, that it is going to be subverted.
Mr. Bader. Mr. Chairman, the Agency has accepted the
basic principle, because it has removed from its list of
operational assets a rather larger number than this would
call for.
Mr. Kirbow. But if I hear correctly what you are saying
then, we are out to protect the American media from being made
pregnant by the CIA and not worrying at all about the reading
public or the other, but just the media.

HW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 22

TOP SECRET
Senator Huddleston. The assumption is if the media of
the press is subverted, that it will affect the citizens, or
they will suffer.
Senator Hart of Colorado. Mr. Chairman, in the interest
of expedition, I move the passage of these three recommendations.
Senator Huddleston. All right. Let's see what the three
are.
Mr. Aaron. Well, let me summarize the first one. I think
we have agreed the first is that the prohibition on distribu-
tion of CIA funded, supported, subsidized and so forth, that
that be prohibited within the United States.
Mr. Inderfurth. Printed.
Mr. Kirbow. Excuse me. Not printed.
Mr. Aaron. The word "printed" dropped out for the following
reason. One, it makes it easier to prohibit the distribution
if you don't identify where the printing is taking place, and
secondly, while there is no printing going on here, the
question really goes to distribution. I think that was the
concurrence of the Committee.
The second point is that the prohibitions of that the
Agency now has upon itself, be made law.
Mr. diGenova. On the use of media personnel and
institutions?
Mr. Aaron. On the use of media personnel and institutions,
and the third point is that it be extended to say by statute

HW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 23

TOP SECRET
the CIA should be prohibited from using American media organiza-
tions for cover.
Senator Huddleston. Well, the style of this ought to
be changed, it seems to me, because one of the recommendations,
instead of listed under recommendations, is the last paragraph
on 63, is that correct?
Mr. Aaron. Yes, that would be picked up as a recommenda-
tion, that is correct.
Mr. diGenova. Plus the other one, which is not on 64.
Mr. Aaron. Well, the one on 64, the bottom one comes out.
Senator Huddleston. Right.
Senator Mathias. Before you leave that, as a matter of
record, I am requested to note an exception on behalf of
minority.
Mr. Aaron. The second section was the covert use of
American clergy and laity. This is on Page 64.
Senator Huddleston. Was that included in your motion?
Senator Hart of Colorado. No.
Mr. Aaron. I think that covers the recommendation.
Mr. Maxwell. They hadn't discussed whether it
should be made public.
Senator Huddleston. Well, if it becomes a statute, it
becomes public.
Mr. Inderfurth. But the statute will remain secret.
Mr. Aaron. No, we are ready to move on it, to covert

HW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 24
TAP

TOP SECRET
use of American clergy and laity.
Senator Huddleston. Well, the covert action is
with the noted exception, those recommendations go before
the Committee.
Senator Hart of Colorado. Just for clarification, Mac, is
that the entire minority or what?
Senator Mathias. No, it's only one member.
Senator Huddleston. Now we are ready to deal with the
clergy.
Mr. Aaron. The point here is, I think, the CIA takes
the position that it has no covert arrangements with American
clergy and laity, and that this will continue as policy, but
they have relationship of a clandestine character which don't
involve remuneration.
Senator Huddleston. Incidentally, is that a new policy?
Mr. Bader. Yes, as of February 10, 1976.
Mr. Aaron. It's pretty short. This is the sum total of
our findings, and it explains it better than I can.
Mr. Bader. This has not been, obviously you can see
Senator and members of the Committee, from the text that the
Committee has found the CIA has a total of 14 covert arrangements
involving direct operational use of 21, that should be religious
persons, and I found it very difficult in this to properly or
respectively address the category here, whether they are American
clergy, religious persons, or what. It is a term of art I

HW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 25

TOP SECRET
really haven't quite been able to deal with.
As of February 10th, the CIA announced that the CIA has
not secret paid or contractual relationships with an American
clergyman or missionary. This practice will be continued as a
matter of policy.
Senator Huddleston. I think we ought to clarify that
religious persons. That would include Chuck Colson.
Mr. Bader. The issue here is, we are saying in the first
instance, we welcome this policy which they intend to put into
their operational prohibitions, and the recommendation that
we bring to you is a very simple one, in addition to that, is
that it be extended from contractual to all operational relation-
ships, paid and unpaid.
Senator Huddleston. By statute.
Mr. Bader. By statute.
Mr. Inderfurth. May I ask a question here?
How does this conform to Senator Hatfield's bill on this?
Mr. Bader. I don't know.
Mr. Inderfurth. I don't know. I'll get a copy of it,
but I think to the degree possible, if the committee
recommends by statute a prohibition, it should be made to conform
to that because he has put in a great deal of work on that, or
without knowing the facts, I might add.
Mr. Kirbow. The other thing is the Committee may want
to support legislation that is already pending.

HW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 26
TAP READER

TOP SECRET
Mr. Maxwell. What is the nature of the covert relationship
with religious persons now in effect?
Senator Mathias. A few patriotic volunteers.
Mr. Bader. Patriotic volunteers, at least one of them,
from the operational records.
I think, too