```markdown
157-10005-10225 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

Date: 10/01/93
Page: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: 157-10005-10225
RECORDS SERIES:
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: R891

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR: SSCIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE:
TESTIMONY/REPORT OF PROCEEDINGS WITH EXHIBITS
DATE: 08/12/75
PAGES: 90
SUBJECTS:
TESTIMONY OF HOUSTON, LAWRENCE RE: CIA AND CASTRO
EXHIBITS ARE INCLUDED
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: T
RESTRICTIONS: REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS: P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/01/93
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS:
BOX 248-02

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
HW 50955 DocId: 32202415 Page 1

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

Niarchos' ship captains named Katopodes brought a libel action,
I believe it was, against Onassis for some letter he had written
about some activities of Katopodes, I can't remember the
details now.

We didn't know where this was leading. So this was in
the Supreme Court of New York State, and so I went to a fellow
I knew in the U.S. Attorney's office and asked him if he
could keep track of how this suite was developing to see if
it was leading into some of the connections we had, particularly with Niarchos.

And he got some of the pleadings and some of the pre-
trial evidence --

Mr. Wides. But you don't recall any contacts between
the Agency and the Justice Department resulting in Mr. Yeagley
going up to try and halt some aspects of the grand jury
proceedings in New York growing out --

Mr. Houston. It strikes no valve.

Mr. Wides. Let me ask just one more question in this
area and then we will move on to the document I asked you to
look at before we started.

Mr. Maxwell. I have just one other question.

Mr. Wides. Do you recall the infamous Kilham case involving
the alleged wrongful death of a former CAT airline agency
employee in Thailand in which it was alleged that two other
agency employees - Mr. Kilham, I believe, had been a CAT

HW 50955 DocId: 32202415 Page 2 TOP SECRET

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

employee. And at the time Mr. Joost and the other fellows
were CIA employees of the station at Thailand in 1951 they were
alleged to have been involved in disposing of Mr. Kilham's
body, and there was a serious question as to whether one or
both of them had been involved in his death. And then I believe
in 1955 this was brought to the attention of the Agency through
the efforts, among others, of Mr. O'Donnell, who was then the
station chief, Justin O'Donnell who came back and raised it
with Mr. Wiesner, and then I believe it was raised with
Mr. Kirkpatrick and with yourself.
Do you recall that incident and the eventual denouement
of the affair?

Mr. Houston. I cannot remember the exact chronology.
I had thought they had gotten the report on the problem a
little earlier than you suggested. But I can't argue it.

Mr. Wides. Do you know if any action was taken earlier
than the time in 1955 when Mr. O'Donnell first raised it with
Mr. Wiesner?

Mr. Houston. I didn't know that Justin O'Donnell was
the one at least I don't recall it, so I don't know exactly
how it first came to my attention. But when it did, to the
best of my recollection, Lyman Kirkpatrick and I, and I think
Frank Wiesner was probably involved, tried to assemble all
the facts to find out insofar as possible what had gone on.
It was a confused picture. All sorts of interpersonal feelings

HW 50955 DocId: 32202415 Page 3 TOP SECRET

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

that I recall were going on out there. And I think one of the
Thai police might have been involved.

Mr. Wides. I don't know if it refreshes your recollection, but I believe a Colonel Rack was a local official
who had some knowledge of it.

Mr. Houston. To the best of my recollection I put
this together and talked to Allen Dulles who was much concerned
about it. He said I think we ought to report that to
Justice.

And I said, there is no particular problem, because
there is nothing we can do about it because there is no crime
against the U.S. that I can find in this situation, it is a
crime against the Thai sovereignty.

And Allen said, that well may be. But I still think
that I want to report this to Justice.
And he asked me to prepare a detailed report on a
classified basis. I've forgotten the nature of the classi-
fication. I suppose the relations with CAT at that time were
still basically top secret.

So, I did prepare a report and delivered it to I
can't remember-- probably to the Assistant Attorney General,
Criminal Division, who ever it was.

They said to the effect, thank you, that is it. There
is nothing we can do.

Mr. Wides. Was there any discussion of the possibility

HW 50955 DocId: 32202415 Page 4 TOP SECRET

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET

of giving information to the Thai authorities so that they
could decide whether to exert jurisdiction?

Mr. Houston. My recollection is that the indications
were that the Thai authorities had as much information as we
did. I don't remember to the contrary, but a lot of the
information we got came from the Thais.

Mr. Wides. Did Mr. Kirkpatrick go over to Thailand
to talk to some of the people there to find out what they
knew about the situation?

Mr. Houston. I don't recall

Mr. Maxwell.

Mr. Wides. Was any action taken against either
of the CAT employees? Dennis Fleming was the other one. And
he was recalled.

Mr. Houston. And Kilham?

Mr. Wides. Joost and Fleming were the two persons
against whom the charges or allegations were raised.
Kilham was the victim.

Mr. Houston. I remember Joost being a problem, but I
can't remember what the outcome was. And Dennis Fleming
just strikes a very faint bell. I can't remember at this
time.

Mr. Wides. Did you have another question in this area?

Mr. Maxwell. I just wanted to say, if you wanted to
continue, you said there were three cases that eliminated the

HW 50955 DocId: 32202415 Page 5 TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

kind of cases which CIA had with Justice, and the referrals,
and you had gone through one. And I wondered if you wanted
to go through the other two.

Mr. Houston. All right.

The second one was quite an interesting one. If I give
it in too much detail, excuse me.

Mr. Maxwell. Off the record.

(Discussion off the record.)

Mr. Maxwell. Back on the record.

Mr. Houston. The staff officer in Italy all of a
sudden disappeared from his post, and there was indication
that he had with him a considerable sum of money, something
in the nature of $30,000, I can't remember the exact amount.
This was promptly reported, and he disappeared into the blue.

The station started looking into it. And I believe we
sent people over to try and look into it, and found that
there had been a serious family problem between himself and his
wife.

Finally, through some sort of source in Mexico we got
word that this fellow was near Mexico City, and he passed word
to the station through a lawyer that he had written all the
operational details of what he had been engaged in in Italy,
which again were very sensitive, sealed them, and put them
in a vault which only the lawyers could get at, with instruc-
tions to his lawyers that if anything happened to him, no

HW 50955 DocId: 32202415 Page 6 TOP SECRET

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET

The SEC, as a result has raised some questions with Justice
between our justice and our statutory problems. This is
before Justice now.

Mr. Wides. Is there a file in the OGC office generally
regarding, not necessarily every one, but many of your --
which would contain many or most of OGC contacts with
Administrative agencies over the years?

Mr. Houston. No, because they weren't -- there probably
is a substantial file on relations with Internal Revenue.
But those were to a large part either working out our own
tax equations on our own personnel with cover problems which
you probably know about, or the CAT situation, or Southern
Air Transport, and not interfering with IRS prosecutions,
although several times we were involved - here is the type of
case I guess you are talking about.

What is the fellow out in the Philippines -- I think his
name is Stonehill -- who had one of the biggest tax assess-
ments made against an individual made against him, I think,
$2 million? And Stonehill very definitely tried to involve
us in his defense. There was some connection with Stonehill
in the Philippines, you couldn't be in the Philippines without
some connection with them. And yet gave IRS the full in-
formation, and said, don't bother with us, we are not
concerned.

Mr. Wides. What about such things as the contacts with

HW 50955 DocId: 32202415 Page 7 TOP SECRET

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET

Mr. Houston. It was a memo of DITEL's that I saw.
I think it was dated after I left. I saw it in draft after-
ward. It had to do, I recall, with operations in the Trust
Territories.

Mr. Wides. In other words, the first category of issue
that I mentioned?

Mr. Houston. Yes.

Mr. Wides. With regard to MH MUTUAL, which is a topic
obviously don't have time to discuss fully today, and
we have not yet seen the files, I wonder -- and Mr. Maxwell
was going to pursue this, and if you could give me a rough
stewardship of the organizational chart, as it were, for the
policy committee, the investment committee, and so forth, how
were the questions of what investments could be made with the
pension fund and the insurance fund and the like, how was that
policy developed, and who was involved, and so forth?

Mr. Houston. The lawyer running the actual operation
reported directly to

Mr. Wides. Was he in the OGC office? Was he part of
ANVIL?

Mr. Houston. He was ANVIL, a staff official but under
unofficial cover.

Mr. Wides. Meaning that he was in a law firm that was
essentially a proprietary.

HW 50955 DocId: 32202415 Page 8 TOP SECRET

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET

Mr. Houston. Not entirely a proprietary.
We supported
part of it, and part of it was a legitimate law firm, they
worked together and shared the firm.

Mr. Wides. Is it possible for you to indicate
who that is, is that someone whom you would not like to
disclose.

Mr. Houston. I can't do that.

Mr. Wides. How would we refer to him in terms of his
position if we were trying to ascertain his identity, or
if we were negotiating with the Agency, as it were? What
was his title vis-a-vis the mutual management? Was he the
project officer?

Mr. Houston. He was certainly -- let's call him the
project officer for MM ANVIL.

Mr. Wides. And that was for a good many years, one
particular person?

Mr. Houston. Yes. He was there from pretty near the
start until he retired by, about two years ago, three years
ago. So, he was there all through the sixties, I would say,
or the seventies.

Mr. Wides. This is not John Keaney, is it?

Mr. Houston. No.

Mr. Wides. Was John Keaney's role more in terms of
setting up proprietaries and incorporating them?

Mr. Houston. John Keaney?

HW 50955 DocId: 32202415 Page 9 TOP SECRET

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET

Mr. Wides. Yes, a Washington attorney -- or Kenney.

Mr. Houston. Kenney. He must have been one of the cen-
tral cover projects. He was not an OGC project that I recalled.

Mr. Wides. He was not prominently involved in establish-
ing proprietaries or their incorporation?

Mr. Houston. He might have worked in some of the central
cover situations, but I don't recall him being involved in any
of the proprietaries I worked on.

Mr. Wides. We are interested in exploring its dimensions
in nature, and are really beginning to get access to materials
on it. Without taking you through all of its multi-faceted
aspects, which would take some time, let me ask you one
or two questions with regard to concerns that have been raised
by the committee.

Mr. Wides. With regard to MH MUTUAL, as you can read-
ily understand, we are interested in exploring its dimensions

Do you recall at any time questions arising about the
conflict of interest or any questionable aspects of the invest-
ment decisions in the MH MUTUAL program or any part of it?
And by that I do not mean an individual who obtained intelligence
information and was trading on his own, or an investment club
within the agency, or that kind of thing, but questions in-
volving either the Agency using insider information, if you
will, obtained through its intelligence activities or
otherwise in making investment decisions or buying stock or
debentures, or making other investments to assist the person

HW 50955 DocId: 32202415 Page 10 TOP SECRET

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET

or corporation or country whose securities were being
invested in?

Mr. Houston. There were about two or maybe three recom-
mendations from the Investment Counsel we had at the time we
were turned down

Mr. Wides. Excuse me. Was the Investment Counsel the
person you were referring to?

Mr. Houston. No, this was an outside investment
counsel we retained for advice for a period of time.

Mr. Wides. Was it a firm or an individual?

Mr. Houston. It is a well-known firm. And they made at
least two or three recommendations to invest in stock of
companies which we questioned rather extensive contractual
arrangements, and in view those contractual arrangements,
I recommended that we reject the recommendations.
And we did.

Mr. Wides. Do you recall any instances where invest-
ments were made and it was then learned or there was
adversion to the fact that there were contractual relation-
ships, or whether they were known in advance and it was weighed
and the decision was made to go ahead with the investment?

Mr. Houston. No. The only ones I recall were turned
down. Since there was ample room to investigate, there was
no need to get in a position of possible implication of
conflict of interest. So, we erred on the side of turning down

HW 50955 DocId: 32202415 Page 11 TOP SECRET

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

rather than going ahead.
And incidentally, the outside investment counsel would
not know why we turned it down.

Mr. Wides. Were all of the investment decisions for
the assets of MH MUTUAL -- and you use that in the broad
sense, I don't fully understand the relationships among all
the aspects of the complex -- but were all the investment
decisions, the Eurodollars and the small amount of stock and
the like made by outside counsel or were there some invest-
ment initiatives which originated within the Agency?

Mr. Houston. For a while almost all of them were made
by this outside counsel. It was not too happy a relationship,
not because of his fault. I think he was doing his honest
best. But we took too long processing his recommendations and
often lost a market by taking too long through our own in-
ternal controls.

So, finally, we decided that while we had gone to him
for a good reason, that is, so we could show that we had
relied on outside counsel of known stature, that it was
not fair either to him or to us to be in circumstances where
we were really second-guessing him through our own internal
procedures and our own investment sort of Board of Directors.
So we left, I hope, on friendly terms.

Mr. Wides. About when was that?

Mr. Houston. Let me guess at around 1969, something

HW 50955 DocId: 32202415 Page 12 TOP SECRET

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET

like that.

Mr. Wides. Up until then as far as you know there
was no investment of Agency funds that were made as a result
of any decisions or implications within the CIA which might
then have been run by him for his independent advice but might
have originated on prompted within the Agency?

Mr. Houston. There may have been those. You see,
on our Board of Directors to which we referred all basic in-
vestment decisions we had three of our top economists, and
at least one of them was a member of a couple of college
investment boards, so that they had the benefit of the advice
to those university investment counsel.

Mr. Wides. Was he a consulting economist or a member--

Mr. Houston. A member of the staff.

Mr. Maxwell. Mrs. Thunberg?

Mr. Houston. Yes.

Mr. Wides. And her relationship with the university
board was what, as an alumni?

Mr. Houston. As an alumni. She was called as a
consultant on their investment program.

We also had the advice of a couple of friendly banks,
and at least a couple of insurance companies would freely
give us the benefit of their investment policies.

Mr. Wides. What was the relationship between yourself
and the banks and the insurance companies, the CIA?

HW 50955 DocId: 32202415 Page 13 TOP SECRET

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET

(Discussion off the record.)

Mr. Houston. To go back to the start -- it may have
already been told -- back in the last fifties we found in
the OGC office that the hardest thing to cope with were bene-
fits for death or disability insured under covert circumstan-
ces, particularly when, as so often happened, no prior planning
had been made for this. Even the prior planning is diffi-
cult, because if you are going to put an agent into certain
circumstances, and say you will get him insurance through
Mutual of Omaha, if the circumstances the Department are
later known to Mutual of Omaha, they might say, well, that
is not a risky cover, and continually you wouldn't have
your insurance.

So, we came to the conclusion that we needed our own
insurance business, and we started by buying two very small
off-shore insurance companies, and started writing death and
health policies. Now, the business grew quite rapidly to
cover all sorts of covert operations. And we went to two
large outside insurance companies and asked if they would
cooperate and take some of the policies either on a fully pro-
tected basis from us, or if they saw fit, for their own account.
And both of them did both. They would take some risks for
their own account, and the only thing we would ask is that
they protect the investigation in case it got into sensitive
fields.

HW 50955 DocId: 32202415 Page 14 TOP SECRET

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET

others they would ostensibly take the risk and
would stand behind them.

Mr. Wides. So that was indemnification?

Mr. Houston. Complete indemnification. And
and large this arrangement worked extremely well.

Mr. Wides. So those were the kinds of insurance companies
were were talking about that would give us the benefit of
their investment?

Mr. Houston. Both of them had large investment portfolios
of their own, and feel I gave us access to their investment
manager, who were most cooperative in what they were invest-
ing.

Mr. Wides. And what was the point of contact in the
Agency during that period for the insurance companies?

Mr. Houston. I went in both cases to set up the ori-
ginal contact, and then this project officer the
primary.

Mr. Wides. And he would have been the point of contact
for receiving their investment views?

Mr. Houston. He or his office.

Mr. Wides. And you mentioned also a bank as an out-
side source.

Mr. Houston. There were a couple of banks, but one
particularly. We kept some of the money on deposit with this
bank. And we had some offshore assets that were ostensibly

HW 50955 DocId: 32202415 Page 15 TOP SECRET

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET

held by an offshore subsidiary of the bank. The bank at our
request gave us a flat guarantee of repayment no matter what
on these assets. So, we felt well protected on this. And also,
when we deposited with them the certificates of deposit we
got the normal prime rate on our deposits. And here again
they particularly in the field of Eurobonds had some good
advice, and we also went to another brokerage house in
New York who had investment advisory staff that specialized in
Eurobonds. So far as I know, they did know the Agency
was involved, but they gave advice on the best interest rates
in Eurobonds and certificates. It was a highly specialized
field.

Mr. Maxwell. Who was going to the investment house, the
project officer?

Mr. Houston. The project officer.

Mr. Wides. Do you recall any dealings with Suydam and Company?

Mr. Houston. Now I have been asked time and time again
about Suydam Company, and the only thing I knew was from
personal knowledge going back to a trust my sister has an
interest in in the Guaranty Trust. They had one of these hold-
ing companies which I think was called Suydam and Company. But
you never heard -- who was it? I know. One of our directors
of Southern Air Transport told me that he was continually
being asked by contact with Suydam and Company. And he said

HW 50955 DocId: 32202415 Page 16 TOP SECRET

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET

that the only one he knows, was the Guaranty Trust. There
was someone else, I don't know about it.

Mr. Wides. Getting back to the question I alluded
to while we were off the record, did any questions arise about
whether the people on the board, the investment board, or manag-
ing board of Mutual who were from within the Agency, would
have access to economic intelligence or political intelli-
gence relevant to their own thinking on investments, and
where there was any question of a proprietary involved?

Mr. Houston. The members of the board were always free
to bring up their ideas for investments, particularly in the
stock field, until more recent years. But mainly we were
consulting the economic experts for their general economic knowl-
edge on trends and any input they could give on basic invest-
ment policies.

Mr. Wides. That would include, I assume, economic in-
telligence regarding, for example, the trend of whether there
was likely to be a copper shortage, or the trend of
whether there was likely to be more nationalization of rubber
plantations or oil?

Mr. Houston. Because our investments, except for the
Eurobonds, were almost entirely in U.S. investments. And
while these were trained economists, their main professional

How would you differentiate that from economic intelli-
gence except that it would be --

HW 50955 DocId: 32202415 Page 17 TOP SECRET

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET

interest was in the foreign field. And I don't remember them
staying for instance, let's get into copper, it is going to
be in very short supply in Peru or whatever. I don't remember
any discussion of that sort.

Mr. Wides. Do you recall any policy papers or reviews
generally as to the use of Agency knowledge in the broadest
sense of its intelligence fund in regard to the investment
decisions as distinct from decisions that were generated wholly
by outside?

Mr. Houston. There were various basic general policy
papers -- usually I would prepare them and put them before
the board -- in which this may have been touched on. I don't
recall it specifically.

Mr. Maxwell. The source of funds invested under the
auspices of the board were what?

Mr. Houston. The initial source of funds was usually
reprogrammed at the year's end available for operational use.
And this was regarded as an operational use necessary to
support operations because of the need for the basic insurance
function.

In other words, all these companies that we had
this insurance complex appeared to have the substance an
insurance company would be expected to have. Actually,
whole fund for all of them was managed as a central fund under
this one project officer. On the design and organizational

HW 50955 DocId: 32202415 Page 18 TOP SECRET

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET

chart looked very complicated. In operation it was quite
simple. It was handled really as one entity with various faces
appearing. And the complications of those whereby maintaining
your directors, who took no part in the operation, your companies
directors, and things, and keeping your letterhead straight
for your writing the different companies.

Mr. Maxwell. Were there other sources of funds,
profits made by proprietaries in stock or bond transactions that
went back into the investment fund?

Mr. Houston. They would all go into the central in-
vestment fund, and in the initial stages, particularly where
there was income from funds and dividends -- until the stock
market broke there were some capital gains registered. Then
the investment policy went more and more, particularly as
the interest rate went up, the Eurobonds and certificates
of deposit, where for a while you were getting -- I think we
got a weighted average over 11 percent. And then those
would go back into the fund against the insurance loss account-
ability. The most difficult thing we had was trying to
decide what was enough, because there was no actuarial exper-
ience such as in a nominal insurance company.

Mr. Wides. You mean the capitalization of particular
companies against insurance?

Mr. Houston. Exactly.

Mr. Wides. What about proprietary profit, was that

HW 50955 DocId: 32202415 Page 19 TOP SECRET

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET

one source of funds that went into the total capital fund?

Mr. Houston. No. If you reorganized a proprietary or
disposed of it, the proceeds identified as the proceeds of
that might go into this fund until their eventual disposi-
tion back into the Treasury, or whatever was decided.

Mr. Wides. What about prior to dissolution, just the
annual operating profit, were any not left in the proprietary
but taken out in part and put into the fund?

Mr. Houston. In the first place this wasn't a frequent
occurrence in proprietaries. In fact MH MUTUAL and Air America
were the only substantially profitable operations. There were
minor profits in others, but by and large as far as I know
they were left in the companies until they were dissolved.
And toward the end of Air America I believe we let off some
of the profits before the final dissolution and then took the
rest of them over, and they eventually turned them into the
Treasury.

Mr. Wides. With regard to the investment, in the case
of certificates of deposit abroad I take it that is what you
are referring to as the weighted average, when you weighted
Eurodollars Eurobonds and certificates of deposit. Whatever
the form were some of the investments in foreign countries made
in any way in consultation with the operating divisions in
regard to the non-investment aspects of the loan, if you will,
the possible use of them for covert assistance in the broadest

HW 50955 DocId: 32202415 Page 20 TOP SECRET

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET

sense of that term?

Mr. Houston. No. Let us get one thing straight.
The certificate of deposit were domestic.

Mr. Wides. Were there any foreign loans?

Mr. Houston. There were no foreign loans that I recall.
The Eurodollar bonds were in the case those which were guaranteed
by a U.S. company.

Mr. Wides. You don't recall any investment in obliga-
tions of a foreign country?

Mr. Houston. Not of a foreign country as such. I
believe there were a couple in foreign companies.
I can't even be sure of that but my recollection is by and
large of subsidiaries of US companies which do not guarantee
their subsidiary bonds.

Mr. Wides. Thank you.

Mr. Maxwell. I would like to go through some of the
material in the Olsen case. And I have marked as Houston
Exhibit 5 the excerpts from the IG's diary which I showed you
before.

(The document referred to was
marked Houston Exhibit No. 5
for identification.)

HW 50955 DocId: 32202415 Page 21 TOP SECRET
```