```markdown
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: 157-10002-10165
RECORDS SERIES:
TRANSCRIPT
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: R-696

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR: SSCIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE:
TESTIMONY OF DAVID ATLEE PHILLIPS
DATE: 07/31/75
PAGES: 178

SUBJECTS:
CIA
CUBA
CASTRO
LANSKY, MEYER
BAY OF PIGS
ASSASSINATION
TRAFFICANTE, SANTOS
RUBY, JACK
CHILE
ALLENDE
OPERATION MONGOOSE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: T
RESTRICTIONS: REFER
CURRENT STATUS: P.
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/30/93
OPENING CRITERIA
Box 256
Folder 14
COMMENTS:

HW 50955 DocId: 32282005 Page 1
Date: 10/05/93
Page: 1
[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

---

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

1 Mr. Phillips. I did not.
2 Mr. Schwarz. Did you know Jack Ruby?
3 Mr. Phillips. No, I did not.
4 Mr. Schwarz. Do you know him under the name of Rubenstein?
5 Mr. Phillips. I did not.
6 Mr. Schwarz. What did you do between your work in Cuba and the Chile matter which you were going to spend most of your time on?
7 Mr. Phillips. After the Bay of Pigs business I went to Mexico in late in 1961, and remained in Mexico until the very early part of 1965, when I was assigned to the Dominican Republic.
8 Mr. Schwarz. And then -
9 Mr. Phillips. I stayed in the Dominican Republic until the summer of 1967.
10 And after that I returned to Washington and became the Chief of Cuban Operations through 1969.
11 In 1970 I went to Rio de Janiero as Station Chief. And in 1971, I suffered the traumatic shock of being moved to Brasilia from Rio de Janiero.
12 In 1972 I went to Venezuela as the Chief of Station.
13 And in the summer of 1973 I was asked to return as Chief of the then Western Hemisphere Division.
14 Mr. Schwarz. And is that the position you held until

HW 50955 DocId: 32282005 Page 2
TOP SECRET

---

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

1 or the other which would enable you to form a judgment as to his attitude toward either the subject of assassination or the question as to what kind of an explicit order would be necessary in order to justify Agency actions to actually assassinate some one.
2 Mr. Phillips. No, because I never heard Mr. Helms even get that close to the edge of such talk about such and such an option or possibility, I never heard him talk that way.
3 Mr. Schwarz. Did you ever hear anybody in the Agency talk that way?
4 Mr. Phillips. Under traumatic conditions I have heard human beings maybe with a few drinks or something like that saying, my God, we would be better off if so and so were bumped off or something.
5 But I have never heard two officers sit down and seriously talk about such an option. And if anyone has ever said that, it is the same way some people might get out of line and say almost anything.
6 Mr. Schwarz. Did you ever hear, in connection with the Chile operation, that certain Chilean officers, specifically a Major Marshall reported to the CIA that they intended to assassinate Allende?
7 Mr. Phillips. It was five years ago. But as I recall, Major Marshall said a number of things. He was what I think of as a wild man. I seem to recall something about, yes, a

HW 50955 DocId: 32282005 Page 3
TOP SECRET

---

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

1 Mr. Schwarz. And you offered through Colonel Wimert, whom we will come to in a moment, $50,000 if they could accomplish it, didn't you?
2 Mr. Phillips. I think that was the correct sum, yes.
3 Mr. Schwarz. And you gave them prior to their attempt on the 19th of October some tear gas and some gas masks to help accomplish the kidnapping?
4 Mr. Phillips. That is true.
5 Mr. Schwarz. And subsequently you provided to the Valenzuela group some machine guns, didn't you?
6 Mr. Phillips. That is true.
7 Mr. Schwarz. And those were going to be used in a kidnapping effort by the Valenzuela group, and you knew that, didn't you?
8 Mr. Phillips. I recall that they were going to be used by the group, and that kidnapping was a part of their plans. I can't recall that they said they needed them specifically for the kidnapping. I do recall that the reason was - the automatic reaction from Latin America is, why do people need arms when they have got arms everywhere all over Latin America.
9 And they said something about, their own arms could be identified, and they needed some that couldn't be identified. I don't recall if it was specifically mentioned that it was just for that. It was certainly understood that they might

HW 50955 DocId: 32282005 Page 4
TOP SECRET

---

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

1 Consequently, I personally made this proposal, that we establish what I called a false flag base of people that would go from outside, and should there be any sort of flap, the chances of linking it to the U.S. Government would be much less, because they would appear to be from another nationality.
2 Mr. Schwarz. I would like to read to you a cable -- is this cable of 27 September in the Senator's book? I know that he asked for it after I came over.
3 Mr. Treverton. It is not.
4 Mr. Schwarz. I am going to read from a cable which unfortunately is not in your book, but the key part is relatively simple.
5 This is a cable, Mr. Phillips, dated September 27, 1970, and it is signed by yourself and Mr. Broe. And it is sent to the Station in Chile, and it contains the following about the purposes of setting up the false flag office -
6 Mr. Phillips. We call it a base.
7 Mr. Schwarz. False flag bases: "Each member of base will enter and leave Chile with false documents and operate as a representative of his country rather than as an American".
8 That is right, isn't it?
9 Mr. Phillips. That is true.
10 Mr. Schwarz. Continue: "Having at least one key Brazilian and one key Argentinian would be vital, and we have candidates."

HW 50955 DocId: 32282005 Page 5
TOP SECRET

---

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

1 Mr. Schwarz. And you did that.
2 Mr. Phillips. Yes.
3 Mr. Schwarz. And then it goes on as follows: "These officers will perform the delicate chores with great flap potential which cannot be done by Station personnel or any Chilean."
4 That is right, isn't it?
5 Mr. Phillips. That is true.
6 Mr. Schwarz. And by flap potential you meant exposure?
7 Mr. Phillips. Contacting screwballs such as Marshall, that sort of thing.
8 Mr. Schwarz. But generally pursuing the Track II activities?
9 Mr. Phillips. That is right.
10 Mr. Schwarz. Continuing: "An example. We have candidates who can successfully pose as Brazilian intelligence officers." You did that, didn't you?
11 Mr. Phillips. Yes.
12 Mr. Schwarz. And this goes on: "If he approached, funded and ran a Chilean General, any flap would be a Brazilian one."
13 Mr. Phillips. Yes.
14 Mr. Schwarz. So the scheme was that not only would the U.S. not be blamed, but other countries like Brazil would be blamed if something went wrong.
15 Mr. Phillips. Yes, this is particularly sensitive to me,

HW 50955 DocId: 32282005 Page 6
TOP SECRET

---

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

1 because my daughter happens to be married to a Brazilian foreign service officer. However, that was it. It was a devious move. It was the final result -- the idea being that if such a flap did occur, someone would think it was someone other than the U.S. The idea of false flag operations is not a new one. The idea I had of going to someone and saying, why don't you be a spy for us, I don't work for the Soviets, is not true.
2 But this is sort of new, the fact that action agents should pose as others. And yes, it is devious, but that was the idea.
3 Senator Hart of Colorado. Mr. Phillips, what were their instructions if they were to be caught? Were they to go to their death swearing they were Brazilians or whatever?
4 Mr. Phillips. I don't think it was quite that dramatic, Senator. They came to Washington before they went down. And I briefed them, and I think what I said to them was, this is going to be a tough and sensitive one, and you don't have to go if you don't want to, because you could get in real trouble.
5 And if you get in trouble, I am not sure we can help you.
6 So, they shrugged their shoulders and went.
7 Mr. Schwarz. Did you tell the Brazilians that you were sending someone down to pose as a Brazilian and his instructions were that if he were caught he was to continue to pose

HW 50955 DocId: 32282005 Page 7
TOP SECRET

---

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

1 as Brazilian and the Brazilians were approached?
2 Mr. Phillips. It never occurred to us in our wildest dreams to do that.
3 Mr. Schwarz. I suppose the relationships between continuing intelligence services were things that were very important to preserve, and that we had very close and delicate relationships with the other intelligence services.
4 Mr. Phillips. We do. And if there had been such a man the Brazilians would be quite unhappy with us. But I thought that was better than letting the world know that was a U.S. Citizen down there.
5 Mr. Schwarz. You go on in the cable of September 27 to say this: "Headquarters believes this false flag was manned by officers who have repeatedly proved their ability to operate and recruit under false colors, will give Station great flexibility in handling delicate and fast-moving situations securely."
6 So, the use of false flag persons, at least judging from this cable, is something repeatedly done by the CIA?
7 Mr. Phillips. Yes, and by all intelligence services -- not all, but all major intelligence services. If you are living overseas and a man comes up to you and says, hey, I see you are a Marxist, and a man comes up and says, I am from Havana and we would like you to work with the Cuban intelligence

HW 50955 DocId: 32282005 Page 8
TOP SECRET

---

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

1 service, he might not be from Havana, he might be from the Soviets, from us, or from the Brazilians.
2 So, it is not an unusual practice.
3 Mr. Schwarz. Incidentally, you just let drop one thing in your testimony a moment ago. You said that in your 25-year involvement with intelligence matters you had been bothered by your activities on only two occasions, one of which was Chile.
4 And then you said what the other one was. What was that?
5 Mr. Phillips. I was in Washington attending the Chiefs of Station course, which is a training course for people who are going out on their first assignment as Chief of Station.
6 When President Johnson decided to send 22,000 Marines to the Dominican Republic, it occurred to me that in order to protect and evacuate American citizens, that that job might have been done with 400 Marines. I was scheduled to go there as the Chief of Station. And I just wasn't sure that I wanted to be associated with something like that. But I decided, well, I suppose President Johnson knows what he is doing, I will go -- I am going to go along. So, I did go along.
7 Senator Schweiker. One question on your differentiation between where you drew a personal commitment line on assassinations, but not overthrow. I have trouble quite understanding it, because as I understand Chile, the plot was to overthrow

HW 50955 DocId: 32282005 Page 9
TOP SECRET

---

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

1 Mr. Phillips. There is no question that I could understand why anyone concerned with world affairs, looking at Chile and what was happening there, would be concerned.
2 Salvadore Allende made his first statement saying that he was a Socialist and wanted to change the order some 32 years before he was elected.
3 Over the years he made it quite clear that he was an ardent socialist. Before this decision was made I believe that we had a visit from a man who had the code name of Ariel, he was a Cuban intelligence officer. The Cubans were moving in rapidly. The influence was great. I think that they saw a lot at stake, another Cuba in Latin America type of thing, the same thing perhaps that motivated President Johnson to send 22,000 rather than 400.
4 So, I can understand why they thought this was going, in the long strategic sense, in the long range against our interests. But that is an assumption.
5 It is true that Allende very definitely made it clear that he wanted to turn Chile into a Marxist state. The difference was that Allende refused to take Fidel Castro's advice and use violence. As I understand it, Fidel Castro went to Chile and said, if you want your revolution to last you are going to have to use violence.
6 I found it interesting to read in this morning's paper where someone from Portugal came back from Cuba and said,

HW 50955 DocId: 32282005 Page 10
TOP SECRET

---

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

1 activities?
2 Mr. Phillips. No, sir. I was the Station Chief in Rio de Janiero in Brazil, and was called back in 1970 for six or seven weeks for what we are referring to as Track II.
3 Senator Mondale. Now, in that position you familiarized yourself with the Chilean government, Allende and so on, and tried to become as expert as you could in the political forces and so on?
4 Mr. Phillips. Yes. And in addition to that, Senator, one of the reasons I was called back was that I had lived for many years in Chile, so I knew something about it.
5 Senator Mondale. And it is your judgment as I think I just heard, that although Allende was a Marxist, and espoused Marxism, he also said he wanted to achieve this through the democratic process, and although there was some rough stuff on the press, and so on, essentially that was the course he was pursuing, is that correct?
6 Mr. Phillips. I don't recall that he said it, but he indeed acted that way.
7 Senator Mondale. But in fact the course he was pursuing was an attempt to achieve the Marxist philosophy with the population support under constitutional system?
8 Mr. Phillips. Yes, essentially that is true, sir.
9 Senator Mondale. Thank you.
10 Mr. Schwarz. I would like to read to you in connection

HW 50955 DocId: 32282005 Page 11
TOP SECRET

---

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

1 assignment by the President and by the White House?
2 Mr. Phillips. Senator, it doesn't make any difference today. On the contrary, since Watergate the people say, why should we? Before Watergate it was another ball game.
3 The President was the Commander in Chief in every sense of the word.
4 And you said, who am I, a GS-15 bureaucrat, to say that we shouldn't do this? But that has changed since Watergate.
5 Senator Hart of Colorado. One other question.
6 I call your attention in our briefing books to what is Tab C, a cable which has your name at the end of it dated 21 September 1970, page 3 of 7. Are you an author or co-author of that cable?
7 Mr. Phillips. I believe I was the authenticating officer, yes.
8 Senator Hart of Colorado. What does that mean?
9 Mr. Phillips. That meant that the signature on the right of those cables is someone that is the authenticating officer in a sense, here is a fellow that is supposed to know the situation.
10 Senator Hart of Colorado. But who wrote it, I guess is what I am after.
11 Mr. Phillips. I would guess that this cable was probably written by Mr. Poinzio, and perhaps myself, perhaps it was joint. But Mr. Poinzio wrote an awful lot of them. But by

HW 50955 DocId: 32282005 Page 12
TOP SECRET

---

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

1 putting my signature on the authenticating part I said I was a part of it. And then, of course, the releasing officer is the one that accepts the responsibility.
2 Senator Hart of Colorado. Page 3 of 7 which has the paragraph identified as the paragraph F contains the following sentence or part of a sentence: You suggest sending us cables outlining objectives and course of events, et cetera, and he said, always conditioned by the fact that we have to keep our feet in the mud of practicality, and our eyes on the stars.
3 What does that mean in Agency talk?
4 Mr. Phillips. Senator, I want to assure you with real seriousness that I am not the author of that phrase.
5 Senator Hart of Colorado. It must have caught your eye, however.
6 Mr. Phillips. It did catch my eye. If this was indeed a joint venture, I can promise that that was Dino Poinzio's contribution, and if you ever meet him you will understand why. He was addicted to picturesque speech. And looking back, all I can say is that it probably went out at four o'clock in the morning, and we were very tired, and I just didn't want to argue about that phrase, and I let it go. I am not sure what it means even now.
7 Senator Hart of Colorado. Neither am I. But it seems to describe a lot of what we have heard around here for the

HW 50955 DocId: 32282005 Page 13
TOP SECRET

---

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

1 Now, I read that as Helms' position being that the assassination of Schneider was something which presented the opportunity for the very thing that the U.S. wished to have done.
2 Do you agree with me?
3 Mr. Phillips. No, I can't agree with you on that. I am not sure about the suggestion from the language. But I will tell you the immediate reaction in our little task force when the word came that Schneider was dead, that is it, it is finished.
4 Knowing Chileans, the moment that that violence occurred, Chileans, with the possible exception of a nut such as Marshall, immediately said, this is it, that is enough. There was still that tradition over the years. And I think that the moment we heard of it and we discussed it we said, that is it, there will be no more. In many countries in Latin America that would have been the signal for further action, weakness, and so forth. But in this case it was the end of the business.
5 Mr. Schwarz. I want to run through with you the activities which were being undertaken with the Valenzuela group and with the Viaux group. In the case of Viaux, was that one of the assignments that the false flag officers had?
6 Mr. Phillips. Yes.
7 Mr. Schwarz. And in the case of Valenzuela, was that one of the assignments that Colonel Wimert had?

HW 50955 DocId: 32282005 Page 14
TOP SECRET

---

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

1 Mr. Phillips. Yes, I believe it was Colonel Wimert that was in touch with that group.
2 Mr. Schwarz. And the two teams worked in tandem, didn't they?
3 Mr. Phillips. Are you referring to Chilean teams?
4 Mr. Schwarz. No, the false flag team and Colonel Wimert.
5 Mr. Phillips. Only in the sense that there might have been some central direction from the office or from headquarters. I don't believe that anyone of the false flaggers had the slightest idea that Colonel Wimert was working with us. And I don't believe that Colonel Wimert -- I don't know that Colonel Wimert knew about them.
6 So, no, they didn't work in tandem, except in sense of direction from the Station.
7 Mr. Schwarz. Headquarters down there, and you in Washington, were working with both the Valenzuela group and the Viaux group?
8 Mr. Phillips. Yes, sir.
9 Senator Hart of Colorado. Are you in a chain here, counsel?
10 Mr. Schwarz. I am in a chain, but it is easily interruptible.
11 Senator Hart of Colorado. Mr. Phillips, did we chronologically -- maybe the staff can answer that, I am just

HW 50955 DocId: 32282005 Page 15
TOP SECRET

---

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

1 Viaux group was really acting in order to carry out step one of the Valenzuela group's plan?
2 Mr. Phillips. Yes, to address this point specifically.
3 Obviously when the guns were passed through Colonel Wimert and the death occurred so soon after, immediately we thought they probably used those guns. It was then when we read the press reports that General Schneider died from handgun wounds. And that was the first time we thought we could really be sure in our own mind that it wasn't directly the Valenzuela group using those guns.
4 Mr. Schwarz. What about the gas masks that had been furnished earlier? Wasn't there evidence that there were gas masks in the care of the persons who attempted to abduct General Schneider?
5 Mr. Phillips. I don't recall. There may very well have been, but I am not real sure about that.
6 Mr. Schwarz. I am going to go to another area, which is the relationship with Colonel Wimert. If there are any questions on the relationship between the two groups.
7 Senator Hart of Colorado. Concerning the October 19 attempts, under Tab 4 on page 7 of the longer memorandum by Dianne LaVoy under October 18 there is reference to a cable A66 dated October 19. And concerning the connection of these various conspirators, it says: "Valenzuela meets with US Army attache and gives him a 15 point plan for coup to be

HW 50955 DocId: 32282005 Page 16
TOP SECRET

---

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

1 carried out on October 19. The head of Carabineros, witting of the above plan, has promised to keep the Carabineros away from the Schneider house to assure that the abduction will not be interfered with. General Viaux is knowledgeable of the above operation, but is not directly involved."
2 What do you think "not directly involved" refers to? Why not just not involved?
3 Mr. Phillips. I think that probably referred to what I was saying before, that in these situations it is not very unusual that there is not some talk that everybody has a cousin that works with some group type of thing.
4 And I believe that it must refer to that.
5 Mr. Schwarz. Taking the actual cable, is the actual cable in the Senator's books?
6 Mr. Inderfurth. No.
7 Mr. Schwarz. Let me read the full text of that paragraph from the cable. It is a cable apparently dated 19 October on the subject of General Viaux:
8 "General Viaux, knowledgeable of above operation, but not directly involved. He has been sent to Vina to stay with prominent physician. Will be seen in public places during 19 and 20 October to demonstrate fact that above operation is not his doing. Will be allowed to return to Santiago at end of week."

HW 50955 DocId: 32282005 Page 17
TOP SECRET

---

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

1 Now, I can't read that language any way other than meaning that the Valenzuela group and the Viaux group were in close cooperation, that was part of the abduction plan, it was agreed between the two that Viaux would appear -- would be out of town so that he would not appear to be involved. And you have to read that, do you not, as meaning that there was a close cooperation on this effort between the two groups.
2 Mr. Phillips. Yes, I think you do have to read it that way.
3 Miss Culbreth. Would you identify that paper more than just the statement?
4 Mr. Phillips. Cable sent to headquarters A66.
5 Mr. Schwarz. No. A66, eyes only to -
6 Mr. Inderfurth. DCOS, which was -
7 Mr. Treverton. It is Tab M, it is in the book.
8 Mr. Schwarz. I think we ought to mark that as an exhibit.
9 (The document referred to was marked Phillips Exhibit No. 2 for identification.)

HW 50955 DocId: 32282005 Page 18
TOP SECRET

---

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

1 As for the narrow part of your question, by all means it is a bad way to do business.
2 Senator Schweiker. Go ahead.
3 Mr. Schwarz. Picking up on Senator Schweiker's line of questioning, would you show the witness Tab A, the document Tab A.
4 It is a memorandum for the record by Mr. Broe dated 17 September, and then that is crossed out and it says 16 September, "Subject, Genesis of Project".
5 Incidentally, what was the code name for this project? Was it FU Belt?
6 Mr. Phillips. Beltway or FU Belt, one of the two.
7 Mr. Schwarz. Does FU stand for anything in particular?
8 Mr. Phillips. So it would be FU. The first two letters there indicate a geographical area. So it would be a lot of different ones, but that would mean Chile. FU Belt means Chile. Belt means nothing.
9 Mr. Schwarz. Everybody keeps saying that so many of these things mean nothing. Who is responsible for these names?
10 Mr. Phillips. There is somebody who is supposed to have a big list to make sure that they were not duplicated. And I think sometimes there is a pixie-like quality that comes out in those things.
11 Senator Schweiker. That is an understatement, to call

HW 50955 DocId: 32282005 Page 19
TOP SECRET

---

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

1 it pixie-like.
2 Mr. Phillips. But many times the cryptonyms mean absolutely nothing, they have no meaning at all.
3 Senator Schweiker. SRRIFLE, ROGUE ELEPHANT -
4 Mr. Phillips. I am sorry, sir.
5 Senator Schweiker. We have come across a few other good ones.
6 Mr. Schwarz. I don't know if you have ever seen that document, and it doesn't matter. But the end of paragraph 2 indicates that the instructions from the President concluded: "The Agency is to carry out this mission without coordination with the Department of State or Defense".
7 Mr. Phillips. Yes.
8 Mr. Schwarz. And that was your instruction?
9 Mr. Phillips. That is correct.
10 Mr. Schwarz. Now, in fact, of course, you did use in Chile a man called Colonel Wimert.
11 Mr. Phillips. Yes.
12 Mr. Schwarz. And he was in the Defense Department?
13 Mr. Phillips. That is correct.
14 Mr. Schwarz. And he was assigned -- he was instructed to take his instructions only from the CIA in Chile, is that right?
15 Mr. Phillips. Yes.
16 Mr. Schwarz. And he was instructed indeed not to tell

HW 50955 DocId: 32282005 Page 20
TOP SECRET

---

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

1 his superior in Chile, the man who was in charge of the defense attache system down there?
2 Mr. Phillips. That is true, sir.
3 Mr. Schwarz. Wimert was the man from the Army, and then there was someone else in the Air Force, the Navy and there was a boss?
4 Mr. Phillips. That is right.
5 Mr. Schwarz. And Wimert was told not to tell that boss?
6 Mr. Phillips. I believe that is true, yes.
7 Mr. Schwarz. Now, how did it happen that Colonel Wimert came to work for and under the direction of the CIA?
8 Mr. Phillips. I believe the explanation for that was the fact that Colonel Wimert had been around Latin America, spoke perfect Spanish, his hobby was riding horses, and he developed really marvelous relationships with the military officers that he had contact with. And I think it was just that someone recognized the fact that if we had been given the task of getting a coup going using the military, why not take advantage of the one man in Chile that they liked the most, trusted the most, and saw the most? It was perfectly natural for him to spend his weekends with these people.
9 Mr. Schwarz. And so he was a natural and helpful asset. But how was it arranged that he would work for the CIA, and lay that question against the instruction from President Nixon that the Defense Department was not to know, how did

HW 50955 DocId: 32282005 Page 21
TOP SECRET

---

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

1 you accomplish it?
2 Mr. Phillips. I don't know. I have had my memory refreshed by looking at some documents now, and I know that someone came and gave me the piece of paper in this book that has been signed by General Philpott, which was a message to Wimert saying, cooperate with the CIA. What the process was for getting that approval, or who went to see Philpott, I wasn't involved with that, I just don't recall.
3 Mr. Schwarz. Did you ever see Philpott?
4 Mr. Phillips. I never did.
5 Mr. Schwarz. Did you ever see -
6 Mr. Phillips. I may have seen Philpott in some large meeting or something like that, but I don't recall any meeting with any of the generals. I was relatively too junior to have attended these meetings. This would have been Mr. Broe, Mr. Karamessines, and so forth. And I would have been left back in the shop, sort of, I think.
7 Mr. Schwarz. And did you ever see or talk to Bennett?
8 Mr. Phillips. Not to my recollection. I think not.
9 Mr. Schwarz. I asked you if you ever saw General Philpott, or did you ever talk to General Philpott?
10 Mr. Phillips. I don't recall such a talk. During this entire period, for instance, I never went outside of our building. I was there sort of in the shop. And other people would do that sort of thing.

HW 50955 DocId: 32282005 Page 22
TOP SECRET

---

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

1 Mr. Schwarz. Is that the form in which you sent the message which is contained in Exhibit 3 to Chile?
2 Mr. Phillips. It is.
3 Mr. Schwarz. Now, apparently Exhibit 4, which you drafted initially, said that it was from General Bennett, and then it was changed to say it was from General Philpott. Did you make that change?
4 Mr. Phillips. That is my handwriting above that said Phil