[2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

Date: 08/04/95
Page: 1

AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: 157-10014-10081
RECORDS SERIES: HEARINGS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 10-H-13

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR: SSCIA
FROM:
TO: GOODWIN, RICHARD
TITLE:
DATE: 07/10/75
PAGES: 61
SUBJECTS: ASSASSINATION, TRUJILLO, DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, CIA, EISENHOWER, DWIGHT
DOCUMENT TYPE: TRANSCRIPT
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS: OPEN IN FULL
CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/12/98
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: Box 3
[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
NW 50955 DocId: 32423469 Page 1

---

The United States Senate

Report of Proceedings

Hearing held before
Senate Select Committee to Study Governmental
Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities

Thursday, July 10, 1975
Washington, D.C.

(Stenotype Tape and Waste turned over
to the Committee for destruction)

WARD & PAUL
410 FIRST STREET, S.E.
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20003
(202) 844-6000

TOP SECRET

---

TESTIMONY OF
Richard M. Goodwin

EXHIBITS
EXHIBIT FOR IDENTIFICATION
No. 1
No. 2
No. 3-A
No. 3-B
No. 3-C

TOP SECRET

---

EXECUTIVE SESSION
Thursday, July 10, 1975

United States Senate,
Select Committee to Study Governmental
Operations with Respect to
Governmental Activities,
Washington, D.C.

The Committee met, pursuant to notice, at 5:02 o'clock p.m. in Room S-128, The Capitol, the Honorable Frank Church (Chairman of the Committee) presiding.

Present: Senators Church (presiding), Hart of Michigan, Mondale, Huddleston, Hart of Colorado, Tower, Baker and Schweiker.

Also present: William Miller, Staff Director; Frederick A.O. Schwarz, Jr., Chief Counsel; Curtis R. Smothers, Minority Counsel; Charles Kirbow, Charles Lombard, Michael J. Madigan, David Aaron, Joe Dennin, Elizabeth Culbreth and Patrick Shea, Professional Staff Members.

410 First Street, S.E. Washington, D.C. 20003

TOP SECRET

---

PROCEEDINGS

The Chairman. We will come back into order.
Mr. Goodwin, would you please take the oath?

Do you swear that all the testimony you are about to give in this proceeding will be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?

Mr. Goodwin. I do.

The Chairman. I am given to understand that there has been some problem in connection with your appearance here today and that there are some notes that you have that you feel you need for purposes of your testimony which you have not brought with you. Is that the case?

Mr. Goodwin. Yes, I think they might be helpful. They have been in storage for several years and I just had no access to them. I have to go get them out of the storage. They were notes - my files and everything have been in storage for several years. I've had no access to them. And they consist of the files that I brought from the White House with me.

The Chairman. Have you been interviewed by members of the staff and shown certain documents that the staff believes will be pertinent to your testimony?

Mr. Goodwin. I have been shown documents connected with the Dominican Republic and the assassination of Trujillo today.

The Chairman. And do you believe that you are prepared today to give us testimony relating to Mr. Trujillo or do you

TOP SECRET

---

believe that you need to or ought to review those notes before you give any testimony?

Mr. Goodwin. Well, I'm of course fully prepared to testify to the best of my recollection to any matter, and I think probably in the case of the Dominican Republic, the documents have been adequate. I think there's a good chance that going through the files may very well add something to my recollection of Cuba and Castro.

The Chairman. Well I will have this suggestion to make. We will take your testimony on the Trujillo matter today, and then - how long will it take you to get your files and review them and come back fully prepared to give us your testimony on the other issues?

Mr. Goodwin. Well, it will take a day or two. It is possible I will not be able to get access to them until Monday morning. It's kind of like trying to get to Pocatello and find them in a warehouse, because I'm up in Rumford, Maine. But I am sure that it would not take more than a day or two.

The Chairman. So that if the Committee were to give you that opportunity, would you then get those files, review them, and respond to the request by the Committee that you appear the first of next week to testify?

Mr. Goodwin. If that is your wish, certainly.

The Chairman. We are most anxious to complete the record and your testimony is necessary, and it would certainly

TOP SECRET

---

facilitate our work if you would cooperate.

Mr. Goodwin. I would be glad to.

The Chairman. All right.
With that understanding then, Mr. Schwarz, are you prepared to proceed with the questioning on Trujillo?

Mr. Schwarz. I'm sorry Mr. Goodwin that we didn't have a chance to get together. I thought we were going to have a chance to do that on Tuesday, and I have not had a chance to speak to you but I do know some of the material, and perhaps we can work on the material.

Before we do so, could you state your full name and your address please?

TOP SECRET

---

TESTIMONY OF RICHARD M. GOODWIN

Mr. Goodwin. Richard M. Goodwin, 1336 32nd Street, N.W., Washington, D.C.

Mr. Schwarz. And as a matter of course, we tell all of our witnesses what they no doubt know, that they have their right to counsel, and you know that, and if you want to stop to obtain counsel, you know that you can do that?

Mr. Goodwin. I already have too many lawyers.

Mr. Schwarz. And you know what your constitutional rights are?

Mr. Goodwin. Hopefully.

Mr. Schwarz. Now, what connection did you have with the Dominican Republic in the winter and spring of 1961?

Mr. Goodwin. I came into the White House as Assistant Special Counsel to the President, having worked on Latin American affairs policy statements in the preceeding campaign. I became involved in Latin America. And from that period until I left to go to the State Department, I was involved on a daily basis with President Kennedy and his activities in Latin America which included what was happening in the Dominican Republic in terms that I drafted contingency plans, I prepared cables that went to Mr. Dearborn focusing on the areas that you are interested in, and I was with him every day on something connected with Latin America.

Mr. Schwarz. Without your turning to the documentary

TOP SECRET

---

material, would you recount for the Committee your understanding of what the United States government policy toward the Dominican Republic was in the winter and spring of '61 and what actions were taken to implement that policy.

Mr. Goodwin. Well, that policy was a continuation of the policy established by President Eisenhower when he, in accordance with the vote of the OAS, voted to sever - decided to sever diplomatic and commercial relations with the Dominican Republic and the situation which you know arose was precipitated by the attempted assassination of President Betancourt by the President of the Dominican Republic.

So that from that point on when we came in, the feeling was, first of all, of course that Trujillo was even more at odds with the philosophy of the Alliance for Progress than had been and beyond that, having cut off diplomatic and other relations, that Trujillo's time in office was probably numbered. The principal support of the regime in that decade which was often in great domestic difficulty had been the concept of American support, it strengthened Trujillo against his opposition.

At that point our policy became one of trying to anticipate at least, the fall of Trujillo. Of course the Castro thing was very much in everybody's mind and the principal concern of the President, the one thing he didn't want was for Trujillo to go and a Communist leader to come in. So I think the policy

TOP SECRET

---

was to keep up our economic and diplomatic pressure to hope that when Trujillo went, however he went, whether violently or peacefully or died a natural death that the succession would be a moderate, democratic group friendly to the interests of the United States in the Caribbean and therefore try to keep in touch with and help out and keep communications open with the potential successor groups, and it was very hard to pinpoint.

Mr. Schwarz. What steps did you take during the period of time you were involved, or prior thereto, if you know about it, in order to assist one or more of the dissident groups?

Mr. Goodwin. Well, we did all sorts - everything from policy statements, the use of USIA, the use of economic pressure, to maintain our network of contacts with exile groups principally in New York and elsewhere. A certain number of limited covert operations, some transfer of arms. Dearborn of course was one of the principals, his principal instruction was to try to keep all channels of communication open, he was zealous in this because he disliked Trujillo intensely himself and felt that he ought to be allied with these other groups. And I read through the sort of overall planning papers, and I think they fairly reflect that range of operations. None of them were terribly effective.

Mr. Schwarz. In connection with the transfer of arms,

TOP SECRET

---

what, to your understanding, was the time at which authorization was provided to transfer arms?

Mr. Goodwin. January 12, 1961, under President Eisenhower.

Mr. Schwarz. And that was at a meeting of the Special Group?

Mr. Goodwin. Well, I don't know because they didn't let me in that week, but there was an NSC action memorandum of some kind which just set forth the authorization. I don't really know the procedure.

Mr. Schwarz. When were the arms passed?

Mr. Goodwin. I don't know. I became aware of the transfer of arms. The transfer I think you're thinking of is the transfer of a couple of carbines and .38 pistols. After the transfer had been made, the message of communication that came to us from the Dominican Republic along with the request for the transfer of machine guns which were to be used in an effort to kill Trujillo, the smaller guns were to be given as Dearborn told me later in conversation after the assassination because these people felt their own lives were in danger, especially if they embarked on anything as risky as trying to kill Trujillo, and they wanted some self-defense weapons, and they were given to them for self-defense and then they made a request that they wanted weapons to try an assassination, they wanted a machine gun.

Assassinating Trujillo, of course, a lot of people had

TOP SECRET

---

tried and most of them, they were all dead. It was a very risky business. It's not the kind of thing they would want to try with a .38.

And I think also, I mean nobody, I think - as I say, we had no particular anticipation that this or any other group would be successful in something that nobody had been able to do for thirty years, but at any rate, those were the backstops.

Mr. Schwarz. Did you know how the arms were passed into the Dominican Republic, as opposed to passed to the dissidents?

Mr. Goodwin. No, I only know what Dearborn later told me in conversation. I only have this fifteen year old memory on my part that he gave them to them in the consulate. I may have known at one time how he got them. There were a lot of guns in the Dominican Republic.

Mr. Schwarz. Did you know that arms were passed through the diplomatic pouch?

Mr. Goodwin. I did not know that, but I wouldn't be surprised, weapons of that size.

Mr. Schwarz. Now again, when were the arms passed, as far as you know?

Mr. Goodwin. Well I don't know. I don't have the exact - the message is in here. I think it was after President Kennedy took office. My knowledge of it was on the basis of the message

The Chairman. Is there someone that can help Mr. Goodwin

TOP SECRET

---

with the documents?

Mr. Schwarz. Let's mark that as Goodwin Exhibit No. 1, a document consisting - dated May 13, 1961 and headed Subject, CIA Covert Activities, Dominican Republic, stating: "Attached is the special briefing paper of CIA covert activities directed against the Dominican Republic which is requested by Mr. Richard Goodwin at the White House," and attaching a several page document with that heading and that date.

Mr. Goodwin. This is the paper that they sent me and that's where, I guess, I found out about it.

(The document referred to was marked Goodwin Exhibit No. 1 for identification.)

TOP SECRET

---

Mr. Schwarz. Now that indicates, does it not, that the weapons were passed sometime after late January, you can tell that?

Mr. Goodwin. Yeah.

Mr. Schwarz. All right. You can tell that by looking at the heading which indicates when the request for the passage of the arms was made.

Mr. Goodwin. Yes, it says in late January. Of course they weren't authorized until the 12th.

Mr. Schwarz. But they were passed, in any event, after the Kennedy Administration took office.

Mr. Goodwin. Yes.

Mr. Schwarz. Now you told President Johnson, Vice President Johnson, - we will mark this Goodwin Exhibit 2, a memorandum which, Senators, is at Tab H, the book which is marked book 2 of 2 and dated June 1, 1961.

(The document referred to was marked Goodwin Exhibit No. 2 for identification.)

TOP SECRET

---

Mr. Schwarz. Would you read into the record, Mr. Goodwin, this is a memorandum for the files dated June 1, 1961, subject Report of Point Raised at meeting with Vice President. Would you read into the record the second paragraph?

Mr. Goodwin. "At one point during the meeting, the Vice President asked about the three carbines which the Agency had turned over to the dissidents, specifically asked about the date of delivery. Mr. Goodwin made a statement to the effect that this was done under the previous Administration, i.e., prior to January 20, 1961, pursuant to a decision of the Special Group."

Can you tell me if this his memo I'm reading? I'd like to know.

Mr. Schwarz. Well, there are some initials at the bottom of the page, do they help you decide whose memo it is?

Mr. Dennin. I believe we were told by Secretary of State Rusk that it's Under Secretary of State Johnson. That's what the U stands for.

Mr. Schwarz. Did you make that statement, Mr. Goodwin?

Mr. Goodwin. I don't remember making it. It is an inaccurate statement, and there was a clear record that it would be inaccurate in documents that I had already seen. I thought that I wouldn't have made it. I had no purpose in making it. And this is --

The Chairman. What is the inaccuracy of this?

TOP SECRET

---

Mr. Goodwin. The delivery of the arms was not made prior to January 20th. The authorization, Senator, was prior to January 20th.

Senator Schweiker. Was when, again? Was what date?

Mr. Goodwin. The authorization was the 12th of January.

Senator Schweiker. What year?

Mr. Goodwin. 1961.

Senator Schweiker. And delivery was when?

Mr. Schwarz. Sometime subsequent to January 20th.

Mr. Goodwin. Well, now that I look at this, all it says was late January.

The Chairman. This is June 1st, this is dated June 1st, and you are reported to have said, "At one point during the meeting the Vice President asked about the three carbines which the Agency had turned over to the dissidents and specifically asked about the date of delivery. Mr. Goodwin made the statement to the effect that this was done under the previous Administration, i.e., prior to January 20th, 1961, pursuant to a decision of the Special Group." Actually the delivery took place after January 20th 1961.

Mr. Goodwin. Well that was my first impression on reading that, but I notice that all it says was late January, Senator, so I suppose the 20th or the 19th in somebody's mind could be late January. I mean, I don't really remember.

Mr. Schwarz. But Mr. Goodwin, you know, independent of

TOP SECRET

---

the document which we marked as Exhibit 1, in fact the arms were delivered after January 20th.

Mr. Goodwin. I may have known. All - my first knowledge was this document, the timetable that I requested which simply informed me that the delivery of carbines had been made in late January. I don't know any more than that.

Mr. Schwarz. All right.

Mr. Goodwin. This is my source of knowledge. I may have learned more subsequent to it if Dearborn pinpointed it.

Mr. Schwarz. In addition with dealing with Dearborn, were you dealing with anybody from the CIA on this?

Mr. Goodwin. Well, they were always at the meetings.

Mr. Schwarz. Who do you remember from the CIA?

Mr. Goodwin. Tracy Barnes - I can't be sure who all was there. At the meeting with the Vice President, I'm sure somebody like Bissell, at least, would have been there. But I'm sure you must have a list.

Mr. Schwarz. Now I would like you to testify in answer to a series of questions as to what you were or were not told. Now, were you told that the arms which had been delivered had been delivered to persons who said at times that they wanted to use them for personal defense, but who said more often that they wanted to use them for assassination purposes?

Mr. Goodwin. I was given to understand and told specifically and it's reflected in the documents, that they

TOP SECRET

---

wanted - in order to carry out an assassination, they thought they needed transfer of additional weapons, of submachine guns. I don't remember any indication that anyone thought that a carbine or a .38 was adequate to mount an effort of that kind against Trujillo. But they, of course, were interested in assassinating Trujillo, involved as they were in a very life and death struggle, their families were being slaughtered -

Mr. Schwarz. The record demonstrates that the Agency was informed in April, prior to the memorandum that went to you which we marked as Exhibit 1, that the dissidents intended to undertake the assassination effort and to do so within the means that they eventually actually did, by blockading the road and shooting Mr. Trujillo as he was visiting his mistress. And that they intended to do it whether or not they received the machine guns, but they would like the machine guns, just to help.

Now, were you informed by the Agency or by anyone else that the dissidents intended to accomplish the assassination with the small arms whether or not they got the machines?

Mr. Goodwin. I was informed that both this and other groups intended and wanted to assassinate Trujillo. We got reports of assassinations about to occur almost every two or three weeks in the White House. There is a long gap between wanting to kill Trujillo and being able to do it, and - but at all times, continually, up into May, there was the very

TOP SECRET

---

insistent request for additional arms that would make the plot feasible and at the specific request of President Kennedy, those arms were denied and -

Mr. Schwarz. I'm going to come to that. I want to know what you were informed about the intentions of the dissidents. You didn't answer my question. You said you were frequently informed about assassination plots all over the world, but specifically with respect to the Dominican Republic, were you or were you not informed that the Agency had been told by the dissidents that they intended to accomplish the assassination of Fidel Castro - excuse me, of Trujillo - whether or not they received the machine guns?

Mr. Goodwin. I was told that afterwards by Dearborn. I wasn't told that particularly at the time, although that wouldn't surprise me if they said that. By the Agency, you mean Dearborn, or -

Mr. Schwarz. I mean the Central Intelligence Agency.

Mr. Goodwin. They communicated directly with the Agency in this instance?

Mr. Schwarz. There were Agency people in the Republic. Did you know there were Agency people in the Republic?

Mr. Goodwin. I knew they were in and out.

Mr. Schwarz. In and out?

Mr. Goodwin. They ran some guns in at one time, as I remember, and they also were engaged in the collection of

TOP SECRET

---

intelligence about dissident groups.

Mr. Schwarz. Was it your impression that Dearborn was in charge of the Dominican Republic, or the Agency personnel was in charge of the Dominican Republic?

Mr. Goodwin. My impression at the time was that the instructions given to Dearborn were carried out, and all instructions from the President went to Dearborn.

Mr. Schwarz. Apart from instructions from the President, was it your impression that the Agency was in charge of the Dominican Republic or that Dearborn was in charge of the Dominican Republic.

Mr. Goodwin. My impression was that Dearborn was in charge of the Dominican Republic, subject to very close supervision from Washington.

The Chairman. Dearborn was the -

Mr. Goodwin. He was the Consul. We had no formal relations.

The Chairman. He was the Consul?

Mr. Goodwin. Right.

Wasn't that true?

Mr. Schwarz. The paper record makes it look quite likely that the Agency, at least from their point of view, thought that they were in charge.

Mr. Goodwin. They should have told the President. We sent all of our messages to Dearborn.

TOP SECRET

---

Mr. Schwarz. What was your understanding of the location of the machine guns that the dissidents wanted?

Mr. Goodwin. I don't remember, but it's in here somewhere in the paper.

(Pause)

Mr. Schwarz. Well, let me cut through the question. Did you know that the machine guns were sent to the Dominican Republic through the diplomatic pouch?

Mr. Goodwin. I know now.

Mr. Schwarz. Did you know about it?

Mr. Goodwin. No: I knew, when the issue arose in May that we had - we had brought in machine guns, but the precise method by which they were brought in I never asked about.

The Chairman. I am having a little difficulty following. We began with your being told that it was the policy of the previous Administration to encourage dissident groups and do whatever possible to isolate or to undermine and bring down the Trujillo regime. Then, following the Inauguration of President Kennedy, certain weapons are passed to these dissidents in the Dominican Republic for the purpose of assassinating - of their use in the assassinating President Trujillo. Now when did you learn that weapons had been in fact passed to dissident groups, that obviously had occurred after President Kennedy had been inaugurated. When did you first

TOP SECRET

---

learn?

Mr. Goodwin. On the 13th of May when we requested from the White House a briefing paper on all covert activities in the Dominican Republic, that had been conducted in the Dominican Republic.

Mr. Schwarz. Now that briefing paper was requested from whom?

Mr. Goodwin. Well, it would have been requested by me for the President.

Mr. Schwarz. From the CIA?

Mr. Goodwin. From the CIA.

The Chairman. From the CIA, and that briefing paper has been identified for the record?

Mr. Goodwin. That is correct.

The Chairman. All right. When you found out that these weapons had been transferred in January to certain dissident groups for the purpose of assassinating Trujillo, what did you do?

Was it then your understanding that this was President Kennedy's policy?

Mr. Goodwin. No.

The Chairman. Then what did you do when you received that information?

Mr. Goodwin. If I may go back for a moment, Senator, and that is the briefing paper involved a very clear distinction

TOP SECRET

---

between these weapons which were to be used for purposes of personal type side-arms, the self-defense attendant to any project and the desire for assassination weapons which would have consisted of machine guns.

Our response to this briefing paper was immediately to try to review our entire policy toward the Dominican Republic and prepare, which we did over the next couple of weeks, instructions to the Consul about the nature of future relations with dissidents, because the President felt that things might be getting out of hand, with what was happening in the Dominican Republic.

So we did prepare that paper. The President had, as I said, two great concerns. He didn't want anybody trying to push Trujillo over unless he knew what was going to happen next, because he would much rather have Trujillo in there than a Communist leader. And secondly, that the United States not be associated with any kind of violent overthrow. And in the telegram that was -

The Chairman. All right. Now when the President told you that those were his two concerns, what action was then taken to implement the President's policy?

Mr. Goodwin. The action that was then taken was to take and set aside the original instructions from the State Department and at the President's instructions, I typed up the

TOP SECRET

---

telegram which is here in my handwriting, which was to go and did go, slightly revised to -

Mr. Schwarz. All right. Let me mark the one in your hand as Exhibit 3.

(The document referred to was marked as Goodwin Exhibit No. 3-A for identification.)

TOP SECRET

---

Mr. Schwarz. Well, let's mark them, Mr. Goodwin - you know how to do this as well as I do. Make them 3-A, 3-B and 3-C.

Mr. Goodwin. In which I personally added in the course of rewriting -

The Chairman. Can you identify in the Senators' books where these documents appear?

Mr. Schwarz. Where is 3-A?

Mr. Goodwin. This is 233 at the bottom.

(Pause)

This xerox of my raw, personally typewritten draft appears on page 237. That's my very bad typing and handwriting. And then page 256 is the final. And the same page, 242, page 237 and 242.

The Chairman. Is 242 the final version of the message that went out?

Mr. Goodwin. Yes.

The Chairman. This is for Dearborn from State?

Mr. Goodwin. That's correct.

The Chairman. And by whom was the messages signed?

Mr. Goodwin. Probably the Secretary, I guess, but they are both my drafts. I received a draft from the State Department, discussed it with the President, and at his instruction prepared this redraft. I never would have overridden the State Department on my own, and adding to it two major points aside

TOP SECRET

---

from rewording it. The first one is on a different matter, and the second one was to say in the final version, "However, we must not run the risk of U.S. association with political assassinations, since the United States as a matter of general policy cannot condone assassinations. This last principle is overriding and must prevail in doubtful situations." That was inserted at the instruction of the President, a much stronger statement of that than occurs in the State Department draft, and it finishes again with - it says, "Clearly, at the present time we are unable to transfer arms to dissidents. We feel that the transfer of arms would serve very little purpose."

(The document referred to was marked Goodwin exhibit No. 3-B for identification.)

TOP SECRET

---

The Chairman. Now you saw this telegram and approved it before it was sent by State?

Mr. Goodwin. I wrote it.

The Chairman. But you said that the State Department changed the language.

Mr. Goodwin. No. They had prepared an original draft which I changed and redrafted. Now that is here too, including a note from them saying that I wasn't satisfied with their draft.

The Chairman. So this was your own message, then, that you believed accurately reflected President Kennedy's policy?

Mr. Goodwin. It was prepared at the specific instruction of the President. It was shown to him before transmission.

The Chairman. It was shown to the President?

Mr. Goodwin. Oh, yes.

The Chairman. Very well. Then, reading the first paragraph, "The President has now approved contingency plans discussed during your stay here with one major exception. You are not to request a pre-signed request for help from Dominican dissident groups."

Mr. Goodwin. I can explain that, Senator.

There was a proposal made in the State Department version that has been discussed that the dissident groups, that in case they managed to take over the government and there was some

TOP SECRET

---

kind of fighting that they should request help from Venezuela, Columbia, a few of our allies and therefore we ought to prepare them in advance for such a request. The President thought that putting such a document in their hands would amount to a declaration of war and wanted it struck.

The Chairman. All right. Then the second paragraph, "We consider it essential that you continue to work" - well, before we go on with the second paragraph, in the first paragraph you say, "The President has now approved contingency plans discussed during your stay here with one major exception." Now, what were those contingency plans that had been discussed?

Mr. Goodwin. They have them here, I believe. I think - this is a very thick document, where you have a series of contingency plans, it discusses here. "The paramount interest of the United States is to assure that Castro-Communist elements not take over." It says Trujillo is weak, and then it is an analysis of the dissidents and their intention, the weakness of the Trujillo regime, and it goes into the covert activities, which, I think probably - is that your principal interest at this time?

The Chairman. Yes.

Mr. Goodwin. There's an Appendix that sets forth all the covert activities. Recommendation A of the United States, not initiate the overthrow of Trujillo, that we inform pro-U.S.

TOP SECRET

---

dissidents that if they succeed on their own and form an acceptable government we will be glad to come in and help them and then the rest talks about here; ways of recognizing -

The Chairman. There is nothing in that contingency plan that contemplated the assassination of Trujillo himself?

Mr. Goodwin. It contemplated only the possibility that he might be assassinated, not that we would assassinate him.

The Chairman. But if he were assassinated, it would have presumably been the result of an action by a dissident group to overthrow his regime?

Mr. Goodwin. Yes.

The Chairman. All right. Moving to Paragraph 2 in your message - the President's message to Mr. Dearborn, "We consider it essential that you continue to work to strengthen pro-U.S. sentiment among dissident groups. Your work along this line has been invaluable. However, we must not run the risk of U.S. association with political assassination, since the U.S., as a matter of general policy cannot condone assassination. This last principle is overriding and must prevail in doubtful situations." Now that language, it has been suggested by some members of the Committee that your concern here had to do with avoiding any relationship that might lead to a disclosure that the United States had indeed an interest in or was somehow involved in a plot to assassinate Trujillo. Because you say, "however

TOP SECRET

---

we must not run the risk of U.S. association with political assassination, since the U.S. as a matter of general policy cannot condone assassination. This last principle is overriding and must prevail in doubtful situations."

Now don't those words at least convey or lend themselves to the interpretation that your primary concern was that the United States should not get caught?

Mr. Goodwin. Well, I don't believe so, Senator, because I think, to me, the plain meaning of the words and as I understood it was that we must not run the risk of U.S. association with political assassination. That means not be associated with the process of political assassination in any form.

Senator Baker. Mr. Chairman?

In that same vein, if I could interrupt for just a second, is it true - and would Counsel prompt me - that the guns had already been dispatched?

Mr. Schwarz. Certain guns.

Senator Baker. I'm not talking about how many, Fritz. Guns had been dispatched.

Mr. Schwarz. But this telegram refuses the passage of four machine guns.

Senator Baker. I'm not going to argue with you. I am just saying that guns had been dispatched.

Senator Schweiker. What's the date of this telegram?

TOP SECRET

---

Senator Baker. This was just before the assassination, two days before the assassination.

Mr. Smothers. Carbines and pistols had been dispatched. Machine guns were in the country but had not been turned over to the dissidents.

Senator Baker. And now, in retrospect, we're not quite sure - or there's no indication that the guns were actually used in the assassination, although they may have been in the back seat. Is that about the way it stacks up?

The Chairman. And the dissidents had requested machine guns.

Senator Baker. And the witness, or another witness, has said we thought the signals for assassination efforts for machine guns, when in fact it would appear that they went ahead with the material in hand.

Mr. Goodwin. I believe they had additional guns of their own. You wouldn't try it with a .38.

Senator Tower. I think the type of guns is important, because carbines or pistols wouldn't be used in an assassination against a heavily armed -

Mr. Goodwin. Trujillo travelled with bodyguards in a heavily armed car.

Also, if I might add, Senator -

The Chairman. Just to understand what you have said, as the author of this instruction and having conferred about

TOP SECRET

---

it and having shown it to President Kennedy, are you testifying that it was your understanding that the meaning of that sentence - that that sentence was intended to convey to Mr. Dearborn a prohibition against involving the United States in an assassination attempt on the life of Mr. Trujillo?

Mr. Goodwin. Absolutely. And in my first draft, I did it in terms of disclosure and changed that, struck that phrase about disclosure in order to make the point, and always at the President's instruction, to make absolutely clear to the Consul, because I used the very word disclosure, you can see here, and I crossed it out, in my handwriting.

Mr. Schwarz. Could you read into the record how you changed it?

Mr. Goodwin. Well, it's not very grammatical, it's embarrassing. Also, on the xerox - I can't read the handwriting on the xerox. "However we also must not" - something - "permit any danger of disclosing any U.S. association with political assassination or intervention in the Dominican Republic," it says or intervention. All that was struck.

Senator Baker. That sounds like exactly what the Chairman asked you. It sounds like it might be interpreted as, please don't get caught.

Mr. Goodwin. Absolutely, which is why I changed it, Senator, to read "However, we must not run risks of U.S.

TOP SECRET

---

association with political assassination since the U.S., as a matter of general policy, cannot condone assassination."

Senator Baker. I've got to say, and I don't mean it to be critical of this witness, but on first reading of this document, which was some time ago, it sounded a lot to me like the Mission Impossible opening when they say, if you get caught the Secretary will disavow any knowledge of this undertaking.

Mr. Goodwin. I wasn't familiar with the program at this time.

Senator Baker. Nor was I, at that time.

I need reassurance, and I think the record does, that the coincidence of that this cable, this wire, going out, say two days before the assassination, after guns in fact had been dispatched, although not the guns they requested, and under the circumstances it might lend itself to that interpretation. This witness says it does not. There is no evidence to the contrary that I'm aware of, and I don't know that we need to pursue the issue any further.

Mr. Goodwin. If I may, Senator -

Senator Baker. And it also, as Smothers points out, that there was another communication saying destroy anything you've got, all those communications except this cable.

Mr. Aaron. That is standard practice. That is the standard practice for covert operations.

Mr. Goodwin. My response, Senator, is