```markdown
457-10014-10089 [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

Date: 08/06/95
Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: 157-10014-10089
RECORDS SERIES: HEARINGS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 11-H-08

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: SSCIA
FROM: TWEEDY, BRONSON
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 10/09/75
PAGES: 92
SUBJECTS: CIA
ASSASSINATION, LUMUMBA, PATRICE
DOCUMENT TYPE: TRANSCRIPT
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS: 1A, 1B, 1C
CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/25/98
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: [R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HW 50955 DocId:324273477 Page 1

Report of Proceedings

Hearing held before

Senate Select Committee to Study Governmental
Operations With Respect to Intelligence Activities

Thursday, October 9, 1975

Washington, D.C.

(Stenotype Tape and Waste turned over
to the Committee for destruct.)

WARD & PAUL
410 FIRST STREET, S. E.
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20003

(202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

WITNESS

Bronson Tweedy

EXHIBITS

FOR IDENTIFICATION
EXHIBIT PAGE
No. 1 3
No. 2 11
No. 3 28
No. 4 32
No. 5 35
No. 6 39
No. 7 41
No. 8 43
No. 9 46
No. 10 57
No. 11 58
No. 12 63

EXECUTIVE SESSION

Thursday, October 10, 1975

United States Senate,
Select Committee to Study Governmental
Operations With Respect to
Intelligence Activities,
Washington, D. C.

The Committee met, pursuant to notice, at 11:25 o'clock
a.m. in Room 407, The Capitol, the Honorable Richard Schweiker
presiding.

Present: Senator Schweiker (presiding).

Also present: Frederick Baron and Rhett Dawson, Professional Staff Members.

TOP SECRET

PROCEEDINGS

Senator Schweiker. Would you raise your right hand?

Do you solemnly swear that the testimony you are about to
give is the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth,
so help you God?

Mr. Tweedy. I do.

Senator Schweiker. It has been nice meeting you.

Mr. Tweedy. Thank you very much.

(Whereupon, Senator Schweiker left the hearing room.)

(Discussion off the record.)
Mr. Baron. Mr. Tweedy, you have just received the oath
from Senator Schweiker, who has now left the room, and you are
under no obligation to continue to testify in his absence, but
obviously the Committee would appreciate it greatly if you
would continue to testify.
Are you willing to continue to testify in the Senator's
absence?
Mr. Tweedy. I plan to testify fully.
Mr. Baron. You are willing to testify to the truth as best
as you can do it?
Mr. Tweedy. I will indeed.
Mr. Baron. Are you aware that you have the right to
counsel?
Mr. Tweedy. I am.
Mr. Baron. You are appearing here voluntarily without

TOP SECRET

counsel?
Mr. Tweedy. I am.

Mr. Baron. Are you also aware that you may cease answering
questions at any point if you wish to consult with counsel?

Mr. Tweedy. I am.

Mr. Baron. Finally, are you aware that all of your Constitutional rights are intact, including your Fifth Amendment
rights to remain silent?

Mr. Tweedy. I am.

Mr. Baron. All right, then.

Let us proceed to review a set of documents which were not
available to us in your first examination. The attempt here
today is not to go over a lot of old ground that we covered
in your first examination but to focus our concerns on a few
main events in the alleged story of an assassination plot
against Lumumba, and to refresh your recollection by review of
these documents.

Let me introduce as Exhibit 1 a cable from Allen Dulles
to the Leopoldville Station, marked for Robert Guthman on
October 26th, 1960.

(The document referred
to was marked Tweedy
Exhibit No. 1 for
identification.)

TOP SECRET

TESTIMONY OF BRONSON TWEEDY

Mr. Baron. We discussed this cable in your previous
appearance, did we not?

Mr. Tweedy. August 26th.

May I correct the date? It is August 26th.

Mr. Baron. Certainly.

Mr. Tweedy. It is rather important.

Mr. Baron. It is August 26th.

Mr. Tweedy. Yes, we did indeed discuss it the last time.

Mr. Baron. After you took another look at this cable
this morning before we went on the record, you made a remark to
the effect that this cable was a source of authority as far as
you were concerned at the time.

Is that your impression now?
Mr. Tweedy. Yes.

Let me just add to that a bit. The cable per se I did not
remember, but it is perfectly obvious the cable is the authority.
When I first talked to Mr. Bissell about this, he certainly
implied the only reason the subject was being raised is because
it had been of national policy level concern. I do not think
it could be more clear-cut than that. This was basically, this
was the formal expression of that by the Director himself.

I cannot remember which came first, did I see this cable
first, or did I talk to Mr. Bissell first. I suspect that I
talked to Mr. Bissell first. It must have been absolutely in

TOP SECRET

the same time period.

This merely confirmed what I think I probably heard from
Mr. Bissell first.

Mr. Baron. In this discussion with Mr. Bissell, you are
referring to the subject of getting access to Lumumba for the
purpose of assassination.

Mr. Tweedy. I think it probably came up in the sense that
the thrust of the American position was that there was no
solution in the Congo without the fall from power of Mr. Lumumba,
and no measure should be overlooked to achieve this -- constitutional, revolutionary and indeed, executive action, if you want
to call it that.

Mr. Baron. Meaning assassination?

Mr. Tweedy. Yes.

But none of these possible measures were excluded, and the
main point was that everybody agreed that Lumumba had to go or
we were in for very serious trouble in the Congo.

Mr. Baron. You were referring a moment ago in discussing
this cable from Allen Dulles to the fact that when you first
discussed the possibility of assassinating Lumumba as one means
of removing him from power with Richard Bissell, Bissell referred
to this cable.

Mr. Tweedy. No, I would have seen this cable when it went
out. I am afraid you cannot pin me down on this, because I
cannot remember the sequence of events. It would have been a

TOP SECRET

perfectly natural follow-up to my discussion with Bissell. It
is conceivable that this went out before I talked to Bissell,
I do not exclude that, but the two were totally in tandem.

Mr. Baron. Having taken a look at all of the documents
that we are about to introduce into the record today, before
we begin taking your testimony on the record, are you able to
pinpoint with any more precision your initial discussion with
Mr. Bissell of the prospect of assassinating Lumumba?

Mr. Tweedy. Pinpoint it in terms of time?

Mr. Baron. Yes.

Mr. Tweedy. No, not in terms of time. I can only assume --

Mr. Baron. It would have taken place shortly before this
Allen Dulles cable?

Mr. Tweedy. Either shortly before, or shortly after,
because the next series of cables obviously get the show, as
it were, on the road.

May I comment just generally on those cables as a group?
There are no surprises in them as far as I am concerned, in
terms of detail. Much of it, even to this day, I still do not
remember.

One aspect emerges very clearly for me, that we were very
careful about examining this on the possibilities of doing
anything against Lumumba. Basically, this whole period was a
series of exchanges with the field who were seeking, as you can
see from that cable traffic, various measures that might perform

TOP SECRET

or achieve the goal, including, indeed assassination, but not
by any means limited to that, that we were in trouble finding
means which appeared secure, particularly means which kept the
U.S. hand hidden. It is the to and from, and the atmosphere
of it which is very familiar to me; the details of it, much of
it even on reading them, is rather unfamiliar to me. I found
no surprises in it.

Mr. Baron. Having refreshed your recollection by reviewing
these cables, can you add any greater specificity to the record
about the substance of your conversations with Richard Bissell
on the possibility of assassinating Lumumba?

Mr. Tweedy. I think what we used to do, as I remember it,
when it came to the technical exchange with the Station on one
asset versus another, the possible security weakness of this
man versus the possible strengths of another, Bissell left this
largely to me. I do not mean to say that we did not from time
to time review it. He did not debate with me on whether (White
Clam) was somebody who was worth dealing with or not, because
she had Belgian connections, for example.

Mr. Baron. You are saying he would have left the operational
details to you?

Mr. Tweedy. The operational details of trying to come up
with some solution that looked as if it made sense, and had a
promise of success. I do not recall that we would discuss this
type of a cable in detail. As you can see, he released quite

TOP SECRET

a number of them, because he wanted to remain familiar with
them.

(Discussion off the record.)

Mr. Baron. Back on the record on this subject.

Mr. Tweedy. No, I do not have any further recollection of
detailed discussions with Bissell on this. On the other hand,
it was perfectly clear that he remained actively interested in
it. I am sure that he was the one that had the idea of Justin
O'Donnell, for example, I think he undoubtedly came up with
that idea. As you recall, I had forgotten entirely that Justin
O'Donnell had ever played a role in this. I am sure when he
fixed on O'Donnell the possibility to assist the Chief of Station
he must have discussed this with him. I can almost say I
remember it, but hardly.

Mr. Baron. Do you have any recollection of what Bissell
said to you in the series of discussions on the prospect of
assassinating Lumumba about the level at which the exploration
of this prospect had been authorized?

Mr. Tweedy. No. That is the aspect I was never clear on
except that it was perfectly clear to me that he was quite
confident that this was -- I am now talking about the elimination
of Lumumba by whatever means. I am not talking necessarily
about assassination; I want to be quite clear on that.

I was quite clear in my mind that the policy levels of
Washington were agreed that Lumumba must go. I cannot go any

TOP SECRET

further than that. I cannot say, for example, that Bissell
said I think as an Agency we should consider assassination on
this or that this had been discussed with the policy levels
of government. I do not know, and it was never made clear to
me nor does this cable make clear, but it was perfectly clear
that Mr. Dulles felt quite quiet in his mind about discussing
any of these aspects with the State Department or the Ambassador.

Mr. Baron. Off the record.

(Whereupon, a brief recess was taken.)

Mr. Baron. We are back on the record now.

When we stopped, we were discussing your account of your
meetings with Richard Bissell where the subject of assassinating
Lumumba had arisen among other means that had been considered
in disposing of Lumumba. Did Richard Bissell ever indicate
directly or indirectly to you that he had the authority of the
President of the United States for moving forward with an
operation which might include assassinating Lumumba?

Mr. Tweedy. Let me make it quite clear, he certainly
never mentioned the President at all.

Mr. Baron. By name?

Mr. Tweedy. By name, or even by any indication. It was
merely my impression reinforced, certainly, either before or
after, of this cable of Allen Dulles that this was a policy
level decision, but the extent to which the Executive had
assassination discussed with him at all, I cannot comment on.

TOP SECRET

It is perfectly obvious that the Agency felt that it had
the support of the Executive in efforts to eliminate Lumumba.
It was at least my impression throughout this whole period that
if it ever came down to the point where somebody said, I think
we can do it, and we decided upon the means, that someone would
have said, well, before we do, obviously there has to be final
approval. I would not have known where the final approval
would have come from. I would not expect that my correspondence
with the Chief of Station in Leopoldville would result in the
assassination of Mr. Lumumba without further reference.

Mr. Baron. You were under the impression that whatever
steps you were involved in toward eliminating Lumumba, as you
put it, were fully authorized at the highest level of the
government?

Mr. Tweedy. Yes, I was.

Mr. Baron. That would include the President?

Mr. Tweedy. I do not really think I can answer that
question, Mr. Baron. When somebody at my level, fairly senior
though it was, receives clear-cut assurances that the policy
level wants something done, it is very difficult for him to
judge whether the President per se has been in contact with the
Agency or that he has done this through his National Security
Advisor, the Secretary of State, or whoever. There could be
no way that I could judge that.

I think it would be quite misleading if I were to try to

TOP SECRET

read into it either then or now.

Mr. Baron. Whatever impression you had of the extent of
the authority for the steps that you were taking to eliminate
Lumumba was derived from your conversations with Richard
Bissell?

Mr. Tweedy. And the cable.

Mr. Baron. And the cable by Allen Dulles.

Mr. Tweedy. Which merely indicated to me that the Agency
was confident that it had its policy guidance and was thus
acting accordingly.

Mr. Baron. Between this cable on August 26th which
Allen Dulles dispatched to the Congo and the cable we will now
mark Exhibit 2, which is a cable from yourself to Leopoldville
On September 19th, marked Eyes Only, Guthman from Jadwin--

(The document referred
to was marked Tweedy
Exhibit No. 2 for
identification.)

Mr. Baron. Were there any other meetings that you recall
between yourself and Richard Bissell where he asked you to
move beyond the exploratory stage to the implementation stage
in assassinating Lumumba?

Mr. Tweedy. I do not know at all. I just do not recall
that that ever occurred.

Mr. Baron. Let us turn, then, to this cable.

This cable indicates --

Mr. Tweedy. This is the one on the 19th?

Mr. Baron. Yes.

(Discussion off the record.)

Mr. Baron. Back on the record.

This cable begins with your indication to the Chief of
Station that someone was proceeding shortly to the Congo who
would announce himself as Sid from Paris.

First of all, to backtrack, Guthman, in this cable, is
the Chief of Station, is that right?

Mr. Tweedy. Correct.

Mr. Baron. Who we agreed would be referred to as the
Chief of Station or by his alias, Hedgeman, and Jadwin is

Mr. Tweedy. My pseudonym.

Mr. Baron. Did you have a first name in the pseudonym?

Mr. Tweedy. Thomas K.

Mr. Baron. Who was Sid from Paris?

Mr. Tweedy. I was trying to think. The identity is Sid

TOP SECRET

Brown. Sid Brown as a name means nothing to me.

Mr. Baron. If I represent to you that we have had testimony
from Sidney Gottlieb, that this identity stood for himself, does
that refresh your recollection?

Mr. Tweedy. It would not surprise me. It was my assumption
that it probably was, but I could not recall, so I find -- in
other words, your explanation, I think, is what I would have
expected.

Mr. Baron. Do you have any independent recollection of
dispatching Sidney Gottlieb on a mission to the Congo?

Mr. Tweedy. I have the most unclear recollection that I
discussed with Mr. Bissell Sidney Gottlieb's going to the
Congo. I have no recollections of any conversations I had
with Mr. Gottlieb himself, although I am quite convinced I had
them.

In other words, it is inconceivable to me that he would have
gone to the Congo without seeing me. I cannot recall the
substance of our discussions, although I assume, and I imagine
Mr. Bissell must have shared in this, we discussed what it was
all about, the operational problems involved, so that he, in
turn, could be somewhat sensibly about what his own supporting
role in this might be.

When I say this, it is a reasonable assumption but it is
not direct recollection.

Mr. Baron. Does this cable indicate to you that you did

TOP SECRET

dispatch Sidney Gottlieb to the Congo on a highly sensitive
mission?

Mr. Tweedy. It does indeed.

When you say I dispatched him, I would say it would be
more accurate to say that Mr. Bissell and I dispatched him. I
am sure the authority for him going would have come from he
rather than me, but we arranged the details.

Mr. Baron. Your comment about the fact that the authority
would have flowed from Mr. Bissell directly is borne out, is it
not, by Mr. Bissell's initials on this cable?

Mr. Tweedy. Yes, exactly.

Mr. Baron. Was that a fairly unusual practice, to have
both the DDP and the Chief of the Africa Division sign a
cable?

Mr. Tweedy. Quite common. Throughout the organization
on matters of either particular sensitivity or so important that
the DDP wished to be constantly informed about correspondence
on a subject, the Chief of the Division would originate and
send out cables and have it actually signed off by the DDP.
That was quite a common practice in the Agency.

Mr. Baron. Do you have a recollection, having seen this
document, of the fact that you set up a special channel using
the YQPROP sensitivity indicator?

Mr. Tweedy. I did not recall YQPROP, but I recall special
channels.

TOP SECRET

Mr. Baron. This would have restricted all traffic from
yourself to Chief of Station, is that correct?

Mr. Tweedy. Yes. My Deputy would also have access to it
in my absence.

Mr. Baron. That would be Glen Fields?

Mr. Tweedy. Yes.

Mr. Baron. Would Richard Bissell have access to it?

Mr. Tweedy. Indeed he would.

Mr. Baron. Allen Dulles also?

Mr. Tweedy. Certainly if he wanted, absolutely.

Mr. Baron. Why was a special communications channel set
up in this cable?

Mr. Tweedy. Because of the sensitivity of the subject.
This, again, was a frequent procedure in the Agency on sensitive
matters. If one was about to mount a sensitive operation, one
of the first things normally done was to set up special
communications procedures so the dissemination of the messages
could be restricted to what was required.

Mr. Baron. In this case, the especially sensitive subject
to which you were restricting communications access was the elimination of Lumumba by one means or another?

Mr. Tweedy. That is correct.

Mr. Baron. What was the assignment that Sidney Gottlieb
was to explain to the Chief of Station when he arrived in the
Congo?

TOP SECRET

Mr. Tweedy. That, I do not recall. I can only assume
that Sidney Gottlieb would have discussed with the Chief of
Station instruments which TSD might have which could be of
assistance in an assassination attempt. I assumed he discussed
his inventory, whatever it might be, and the two presumably were
trying to come to some conclusions as to what might have the
best chance or the most practical chance of being used.

This is my assumption. I think in this early stage, that
would have been the purpose of the exercise.

Mr. Baron. Let me represent to you the testimony of Sidney
Gottlieb about two conversations that he had at Headquarters
before he undertook the mission to the Congo in September of
1960.

First, when Dr. Gottlieb looked at this cable and some
subsequent cables which we will discuss today, he said these
cables applied to himself. He confirmed the fact that he took
a trip to the Congo and arrived on September 26th as is indicated
by a subsequent cable, and left on October 5th as is indicated
by another cable.

Dr. Gottlieb said before he left the Congo -- I am sorry,
before he left for the Congo -- he had a conversation with you
and Glen Fields in which you instructed him to take a lethal
material to the Congo and give it to the Chief of Station
with instructions to assassinate Lumumba if it were possible
and to instruct the Chief of Station in the technical means by

TOP SECRET

which this lethal material could be administered through
Lumumba's food or toothpaste or something that he would ingest.
Mr. Gottlieb also testified that in that conversation you
indicated to him that these instructions were being given at
Richard Bissell's authority.
Did that conversation take place?
(Discussion off the record.)
Mr. Tweedy. His testimony does not basically refresh my
memory. The only aspect of it which I would find unrealistic is
that he had an instruction from me to tell the Chief of Station
to use this material and go ahead and assassinate Lumumba, as
if, in effect, that is all the authority that was necessary.
To be frank, that does not make sense. The rest of it is
perfectly feasible. I do not recall it in the detail, but I
am not going to deny what Dr. Gottlieb said. I think his recollection
is that I told him, in effect, to go to the Chief of Station and
sort of get the show on the road and use the poison and
assassinate Lumumba without any further ceremony is just not the
way it would have happened.

Mr. Baron. Why is that?

Mr. Tweedy. For the simple reason that under no circumstances
would that instruction have been given by me without reference
to higher authority up through the chain of command.

Mr. Baron. When you say reference to higher authority,
what do you mean?

TOP SECRET

Mr. Tweedy. My higher authority in the first instance
would be Mr. Bissell.

Mr. Baron. Dr. Gottlieb did testify --

Mr. Tweedy. I understand.

Mr. Baron. -- that you referred in your conversation with
him to the fact that you had authority from Mr. Bissell for the
assignment you were giving to Gottlieb.

Mr. Tweedy. The only thing that Mr. Gottlieb would disagree
on is that there would be no further reference, which his
statement implies from Leopoldville before they took any action
on this matter, in other words, take the final action on this
matter, and that was never a matter, to the best of my recollection, that was ever delegated by Mr. Bissell. In other words,
Mr. Bissell never said, look, you have the picture, go ahead
and do it in your own good time without any further reference
to me or anybody else, nor is the tenor of this correspondence
as I read it that way at all.

Mr. Baron. Do you recall if Mr. Bissell ever went as
far as telling you that if an opportunity arose to carry off the
assassination of Lumumba in a situation where it would be
practically impossible to confirm, that there was authority
for proceeding with the assassination with Headquarters, that
the Chief of Station would be, under those circumstances,
authorized to proceed to assassinate Lumumba?

Mr. Tweedy. No, I do not.

TOP SECRET

Mr. Baron. Do you have a recollection about that one way
or the other?

Mr. Tweedy. I do not recall that he ever put it to me
this way.

Mr. Baron. Let us then break down your statement about this
meeting with Dr. Gottlieb into component parts.

You agree now, having heard Dr. Gottlieb's testimony, that
it is true that you had asked Dr. Gottlieb to go to the Congo?

Mr. Tweedy. Indeed, as I assumed I had, yes.

Mr. Baron. It is also true that you knew that Dr. Gottlieb
was to carry a lethal material to the Chief of Station in the
Congo?

Mr. Tweedy. If he says so, I do not disagree with him.
I do not frankly recall that at this point, but I am perfectly
prepared to accept what he says.

Mr. Baron. Assuming, for the moment, that you would have
required the Chief of Station to check back with Headquarters
before he carried out an assassination mission, would it be
true that you assigned Dr. Gottlieb the task of instructing
the Chief of Station to assassinate Lumumba on that basis?

Mr. Tweedy. Dr. Gottlieb was the head of the Technical
Services Division, or whatever it was called in those days.

Mr. Baron. Let me jump in for a moment.

At this point, for about a year and a half, he was the
Science Advisor to Mr. Bissell, and he moved to Technical

TOP SECRET

Services shortly thereafter.

Mr. Tweedy. The way you put it to me was that I instructed
Gottlieb to assassinate Lumumba. The answer to that is, I am
sure I never instructed Gottlieb to assassinate Lumumba. This
is the way you put it to me.

Mr. Baron. Let me correct that.

What I meant to say was, would you have asked Gottlieb
to convey the instruction to the Chief of Station that he was
to assassinate Lumumba if he found a way to do it and if he
confirmed it with Headquarters?

Mr. Tweedy. My answer to that is almost certainly not.
That would have been covered in other correspondence, which I
think is demonstrated by these cables, to the Chief of Station
direct from me with authority of Mr. Bissell. I would not have
used, neither would Mr. Bissell, Mr. Gottlieb as the channel
for this instruction.

Mr. Baron. Dr. Gottlieb has also testified that, aside
from carrying the materials to the Chief of Station and
instructing in their use and giving him an instruction about a
mission to assassinate Lumumba, that he had one further role
in the Congo; he was to serve as a technical advisor to the
Chief of Station on the feasibility of using these biological
substances to carry off the operation.

As Dr. Gottlieb put it, Gottlieb was to stay down there for
a short period of time to determine the technical feasibility

TOP SECRET

of the operational plan that the Chief of Station might come
up with.

Mr. Tweedy. This seems quite reasonable to me. Presumably
with his technical knowledge of the nature of these materials
he would be in a position to either comment on or advise the
Chief of Station as he attempted to put together some kind of
operation. That makes good sense to me.

He would require, basically, a technical advisor.

Mr. Baron. Dr. Gottlieb also testified that the materials
he took with him were of a fairly short life. Their toxicity
would wane within a matter of weeks.

Given that bit of information to refresh your recollection,
does that make it more likely that Gottlieb was there, to aid
the Chief of Station in actually carrying off the administration
of these drugs, as opposed to giving him general instructions
in the use of such lethal substances?

Mr. Tweedy. I do not know really that I can comment on
that. If the materials would deteriorate fast, the use of them,
if possible, I would stress the latter, would necessarily have
to be expedited, but the overwhelming concern of Headquarters
and the field, again, demonstrated in this correspondence was
our concern that this thing could be done at all, that it be
done right, securely, and that the U.S. hand should be
concealed.

If this were at odds with the life of these materials,

TOP SECRET

I think that would have just been too bad. But I think it is
perfectly clear that we would not have expedited anything at
the risk of doing it unprofessionally.

Mr. Baron. At the point that Gottlieb left for the Congo
after talking with you, would he have been empowered to convey
to the Chief of Station that an assassination of Lumumba could
be carried off if he could meet the criteria you just laid out,
concealment of the U.S. hand and use of these materials before
their potency waned?

Mr. Tweedy. My answer to that would be he would be in no
position to do anything more with the Chief of Station if they
reached that point in planning, that as of the last time he
was at Headquarters that there would probably be an approval
from Washington.

Mr. Baron. You would expect, then, the Chief of Station
would have been expected to reconfirm with Headquarters the
fact that he had a go-ahead?

Mr. Tweedy. It would never have occurred to me otherwise.

Mr. Baron. It would be your testimony that, although you
do not specifically recall your conversation with Dr. Gottlieb,
you would have made that clear to Dr. Gottlieb?

Mr. Tweedy. I would have thought so, yes, but I could not
comment any further.

Mr. Baron. The reason for that is you do not recall the
conversation?

TOP SECRET

Mr. Tweedy. Not only that, Dr. Gottlieb was as familiar
as I was with (a) the sensitivity of this particular project
and what was involved and the way that the Agency did its
business, which was things of this kind were not dealt with on
sort of an offhand basis.

Mr. Dawson. What is offhand?

Mr. Tweedy. The fact that the field and Dr. Gottlieb were
given something in the nature of a blank check as to how they
would go about it and when, without further reference to
Headquarters.

Mr. Dawson. If we are to tie this to the cables, then,
is there something in the cables predating Gottlieb's visit to
the Congo which would lead you to believe that it had previously
been authorized by some words in those cables?

Mr. Tweedy. What, Mr. Dawson, had previously been
authorized?

Mr. Dawson. The authorization of the assassination effort,
the elimination of Lumumba.

Mr. Tweedy. Only in the most general terms. No operation
had been put forward by the field. In our business, these
things were done by operational planning, at which point one
came up with an operation that was agreed upon by the Station
and by Headquarters, and this, then, would have been either
implemented or not, according to the say-so from Headquarters.

Mr. Dawson. That kind of operational planning is

TOP SECRET

after Mr. Gottlieb arrives in the Congo, is that correct?

Mr. Tweedy. This, in effect, is that (Indicating). You
can tell by the Chief of Station, there is no further
reference to Mr. Gottlieb, as I recall.

Mr. Baron. In this cable traffic?

Mr. Tweedy. In this cable traffic, was looking at all
sorts of ways and means of eliminating Lumumba, not restricted
to assassination, which coincides exactly with my recollection
of the period between when the subject was first broached to the
Station and that rather indefinable period when, in effect, it
was all over, which, I suppose, basically is the disappearance
of Lumumba.

I think all of this traffic supports my contention that
under the instructions he was given, the Chief of Station in
Leopoldville set about exploring all alleys and found none
crystal clear. There were problems with all of them. Some
looked more promising than others. Individuals who might be
used obviously looked more promising than others. Some were
discussed and discarded. We commented on some. And so it
went.

Mr. Baron. I think that we should proceed in a moment
to go through these cables with a close eye, one by one.

One further point in Dr. Gottlieb's testimony, to be fair
to him, he said he was under the impression that it was general
Agency procedure that in a mission like this one the Chief of

TOP SECRET

Station probably would check back with Headquarters, that any
prudent Chief of Station would check back to reconfirm his
authority to go ahead with an assassination operation, but Dr.
Gottlieb said in his conversation with you he was not told
that he should convey to the Chief of Station the requirement
that he should check back with Headquarters before he proceeded
with the assassination of Lumumba.

Mr. Tweedy. I cannot comment on his statements, because
I cannot recall what I said to him. It certainly is perfectly
conceivable to me that I could have had this conversation with
him and not mentioned this, that this would be covered in all
the basic correspondence that I was having with the Chief of
Station.

Mr. Baron. So then it is possible -- or is it probable
that in your instructions to Sidney Gottlieb about his mission
to the Congo you might not have explicitly mentioned the
requirement that the Chief of Station return to Headquarters
to reconfirm his authority to move ahead with the assassination.

Mr. Tweedy. It is, I suppose, possible. I am not going
to say it is not possible. I am merely saying that that is
not the way we did business, and on the whole, Sidney Gottlieb
would be as familiar with that as I would -- perhaps not as
familiar with it, because he was on the technical side where I
was on the operational side and used to this chain of command
thing and the relationship between the Division and Station

TOP SECRET

Chiefs in the field, to a greater extent than Dr. Gottlieb would.

The last thing I am doing is impugning his veracity and
his testimony.

Mr. Baron. When you say it is not the way we do business,
you meant to say it was your understanding in general Agency
practice that the Chief of Station in a situation like this
would be expected to check back with Headquarters?

Mr. Tweedy. When a Chief of Station was given the authority
to carry out something entirely on his own initiative, that
was made quite clear -- I'm not talking about this case, I mean
generally -- this was made quite clear.

Mr. Baron. When you were talking about the fact that
"this was not the way that we generally did business," you were
not referring to the fact that you would have made it absolutely
explicit in any conversation with Sidney Gottlieb or anybody
like him who was undertaking a sensitive mission that the Chief
of Station would be expected to check back?

Mr. Tweedy. If I had not mentioned this to Sidney Gottlieb
and he said I did not, I am perfectly prepared to believe him,
it would be because it never occurred to me that the Chief of
Station would act in any other way. That is it.

Mr. Dawson. Of course, Mr. Hedgeman also testified that
it never would have occurred to him to have carried this out
without having checked back, and he did so, of course; the
cables will show that very clearly. What we are trying to focus

TOP SECRET

on is exactly what Mr. Gottlieb conveyed to Mr. Hedgeman,
which, of course, you could not testify to.

