157-10004-10270 [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

Date: 09/02/94
Page: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: 157-10004-10270
RECORDS SERIES:
MEMORANDUM
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE:
ROBERT MAHEU
DATE: 00/00/00
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS:
MAHEU, ROBERT
OFFICE OF SECURITY
CIA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: U
RESTRICTIONS: 1A, 1B, DONOR REST., REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/01/94
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS:
[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 50955 DocId: 32202159 Page 1

--- Page 2 ---

SUBJECT:

SECRET

Robert Maheu Foreign Head of State:

1. In connection with the official State visit of a foreign Head of State in 1959 the Office of Security was requested to render special support during the Los Angeles and New York phases of the tour. According to Security personnel, the foreign official was especially desirous of seeing an actress during his Los Angeles stay and it was indicated that the foreign official was prepared to go to great lengths to arrange a meeting with the actress.

2. On 3 April 1959 Mr. Robert Maheu, a cleared Office of Security contact, was asked to arrange for the foreign official and the actress to meet during the course of the foreign official's party in Los Angeles. For the actress's stay in New York City, it was indicated that arrangements be made to rent the home of an Office of Security source.

3. On 13 April 1959 arrangements were made to rent the home of an Office of Security source, at Long Beach, Long Island, for the period 14 through 18 April 1959, to be used as a place for the foreign official and the actress to meet. On 14 April 1959, the home on Long Beach was looked over by a CIA employee under an assumed name. At the same time, touching on relations with the actress, an Office of Security investigation pointed to the background of the actress.

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993
CIA HISTORICAL-REVIEW PROGRAM
01469
PROPERTY OF
THE WHITE HOUSE OFFICE
NW 50955 DocId: 32202159 SANITIZED

--- Page 3 ---

SECRET

4. The actress and the foreign official arrived at the Long Beach site each evening and gathered for approximately four hours. Security sources discussed the possibility that personal information that she felt had been leaked to the press. Bautzer initially wanted Nancy Gregson to serve as a companion for the foreign official and the actress. Later Bautzer wanted the actress to transport the foreign official to the party that Bautzer was unclear about. At the same time she stated she rejected the proposal. She became quite taken with the foreign official and found him to be most charming.

5. All personal contacts by Security representatives in this case were under alias and implied State Department clearance. There is no record or indication in any of the files in this case that involves Robert Maheu by name or reference. It is believed that Mr. Maheu was never introduced to the actress, and as far as can be determined, Bautzer fronted for all arrangements. Office of Security investigation conducted variously from 25 May through 17 September 1959 of the actress reflected no substantive derogatory information regarding the actress.

NW 50955 DocId: 32202159 Page 3

SECRET
01470
PROPERTY OF
THE WHITE HOUSE
