157-10004-10280 [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

Date: 09/02/94
Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: 157-10004-10280
RECORDS SERIES: CABLE
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO: DIRECTOR, CIA
TITLE: ROBERT MAHEU'S TRANSPORTATION OF PROSTITUTES
DATE: 10/10/57
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS:
MAHEU, ROBERT
ROBERT A. MAHEU AND ASSOCIATES (RAMA)
PROSTITUTES
FOREIGN LEADERS
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: U
RESTRICTIONS: 1A, 1B, DONOR REST., REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/01/94
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
NW 50955 DocId:32202169 Page 1

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED

--- Page 2 ---

SECRET
Clean Copy of IN 20362

DIRECTOR
CIUDAD TRUJILLO
RE: HDCW 119
10 October 1957

IN 20362
CITE TRUJ 272

1. CIA source called COS urgently 9 Oct and turned over two documents charging that Robert M. Maheu violated Mann Act in procuring and transporting prostitutes for a foreign leader during state visit U. S. 1956, that this [was] done with tacit approval [of] State. Also charge Maheu with wire tapping OPS against Onassis Shipping Co in 55, that this [was] done with tacit approval [of] U. S. Government and known to CIA, State and FBI.

2. COS expressed low interest [in the] info but agreed [to] pouch [it to] CIA.

3. On 8 Oct EMCREEP gave identical documents to DCM who pouched same 9 Oct to State for action AMB Farland. Told DCM a high foreign official desires wide distribution [to] U. S. Government agencies.

4. CIA source believes only possible source [of the] above documents is John Joseph Frank who [was] formerly close to Maheu.

5. [DOM] objective possibly blackmail U. S. Government, kill Frank Trial. END OF MESSAGE

CS COMMENT: DISSEMINATION APPLICABLE TO KAPOK CABLES.

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM
AS SANITIZED

PROPERTY OF
THE WHITE HOUSE OFFICE

NW 50955 DocId: 32202169 Page 2

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED
