157-10002-10056 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

Date: 09/30/93
Page: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: 157-10002-10056

RECORDS SERIES:
MEMORANDUM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: SCHLESINGER, ARTHUR JR
TO: THE PRESIDENT

TITLE:
CIA REORGANIZATION

DATE: 06/10/61
PAGES: 15

SUBJECTS:
CIA
COVERT ACTION
PARAMILITARY WARFARE
CUBA
POLICY CONTROL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: S
RESTRICTIONS: REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS: P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/30/93

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS:
Box 244
Folder 7
Exhibit 5 to R. Goodwin testimony on 7/18/75

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HW 50955 DocId:32281896 Page 1

--- Page 2 ---

SECRET

(1)(B)
4 NOV 93

DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Retain Class'n Change/classify to
Declassify In part and excise as shown
With concurrence of
JFK Act EO 12356, Sec. 1.3 (a) (
FPC/HDR by

1.  Operations and Policy

Clandestine activities should be assessed not only in the context of their relationship to an open society but also in the context of their relationship to United States foreign policy.

CIA operations have not been held effectively subordinate to U.S. foreign policy.

Clandestine intelligence collection is, by charter, free from State Department control. This fact exposes American foreign policy to a multitude of embarrassments when CIA is discovered recruiting agents or developing sources in a friendly country. The recent Singapore case, when CIA, without notice to the Consul General, tried to subvert a member of the Special Branch of the Singapore Police provides an instructive example. After complications of ludicrous complexity, including an attempt to subject the recruit to a lie-detector test, it turned out that the recruit had long since informed his superiors of the CIA approach and was leading CIA into a trap which, when sprung, produced considerable embarrassment to relations between the US and the Singapore government.

There have been troubles of a comparable sort elsewhere.

CIA has said that, in such cases, neither the Embassy nor the Department in Washington is normally informed of this type of operation. In short, no one knows how many potential problems for US foreign policy -- and how much potential friction with friendly states -- are being created at this moment by CIA clandestine intelligence operations. Surely there is an argument for permitting State to decide whether the advantage to be gained by the operation (e.g., the information derived from an agent within the Special Branch of the Singapore Police) outweighs the risk (e.g., exasperating the local government and shaking its confidence both in our purposes and in our sense). Clandestine intelligence operations should plainly be cleared both with the Department of State and (save for exceptional instances and on agreement of the Secretary of State) with the local U.S. Ambassador.

NW 50955 DocId: 32281896 Page 2

--- Page 3 ---

SECRET

(1)(B)
4 NOV 93

It has meant too that the State Department, often apprised of an operation only in its later stages, is under great pressure to endorse the operation as already mounted because of the alleged evil consequences of exercising a veto. I well remember Tom Mann's remark the day the decision was made to go ahead on Cuba: "I would never have favored initiating this operation; but, since it has gone as far as it has, I do not think we can risk calling it off." Moreover, at a time when there is increasing premium on activism, State, when it questions CIA operations or initiatives, casts itself in a prissy, sissy, negative role. The advocates of clandestine activities seem 'tough' and realistic; the opponent has to invoke such intangibles as the reputation of the United States, world public opinion, "What do we say in the United Nations?", etc., and seems hopelessly idealistic, legalistic and 'soft.'

The result of CIA's initiative in covert political operations has been to create situations which have forced policy on the State Department. This was not the original idea behind CIA. As Allen Dulles wrote in his 1947 memorandum to the Senate Armed Services Committee, "The Central Intelligence Agency should have nothing to do with policy.” Yet, in the years since, CIA has, in effect, 'made' policy in many parts of the world. A number of governments still in power know that they have even been targets of CIA attempts at overthrow -- not a state of mind calculated to stimulate friendly feelings toward the United States. Indonesia, of course, is a prime example.

This experience suggests that the present system by which CIA notifies State of a projected covert operation is inadequate to protect US interests. There must be some means by which State can be informed of such operations at an early enough stage to affect the conception and preliminary planning of the operation. Otherwise CIA will continue to confront State with propositions having potential impact on foreign policy but at too late a point to subject that impact to reasonable control.

The Controlled American Source (CAS) represents a particularly aspect of CIA's encroachment on policy-making functions. [CIA today has nearly as many people under official overseas cover as State -- 3500 to 3700. About 1500 of these are under State Department cover.

NW 50955 DocId: 32281896 Page 3

DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Retain class'n Change/classify to
With concurrence of
Declassify In part and excise as shown
JFK ACT EO 12356, Sec. 1.3 (a) (
FPC/HDR by

--- Page 4 ---

SECRET

(1)(B)
4 NOV 93

2200 are presumably under military or other non-state official cover.] Originally the use of State Department cover for personnel was supposed to be strictly limited and temporary. The Dulles-Correa-Jackson report stated in 1948, "The CIA should not use State Department cover as a simple answer to all its problems but should proceed to develop its own outside cover and eventually in this way and through increased efficiency of its overseas personnel, find a way to temper its demands upon the State Department. Nonetheless CIA has steadily increased its requisitions for official cover.

[There are several reasons why CIA has abandoned its original intention of developing systems of private cover: it is easier to arrange cover through State; it is less expensive; it is quicker; it facilitates the security of operations as well as of communications; it insures a pleasanter life for the CIA people. But the effect is to further the CIA encroachment on the traditional functions of State.

In some missions, I understand, CAS personnel outnumbers regular State Department personnel. In the American Embassy in Vientiane, of the 20 persons listed in the October 1960 Foreign Service List as being in the Political Section, 16 are CAS personnel; of the 31 officers listed as engaging in reporting activities, over half are CAS. Of the 13 officers listed in the Political Section in our Embassy in Cuba, 14 are CAS. On the day of President Kennedy's Inauguration 47 per cent of the political officers serving in United States Embassies were CAS. Sometimes the CIA station chief has been in the country longer, has more money at his disposal, wields more influence (and is abler) than the Ambassador. Often he has direct access to the local Prime Minister. Sometimes (as during a critical period in Laos) he pursues a different policy from that of the Ambassador. Also he is generally well known locally as the CIA representative.

In the Paris Embassy today, there are 123 CIA people. CIA has long since begun to move into areas of political reporting normally occupied by State. The CIA men doing overt internal political reporting outnumber those in the Embassy's political section by 10-20. CIA has even sought to monopolize contact with certain French political personalities, among them the President of the National Assembly. CIA occupies the top floor of the Paris Embassy, a fact well known locally; and

NW 50955 DocId: 32281896 Page 4

DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Retain class'n Change/classify to
With concurrence of
Delete Secs
FPC/HDR by
Declassify In part and excise as shown

--- Page 5 ---

(1)(B)
4 NOV 93

SECRET

DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Retain class'n Change/classify to
With concurrence of
Delete Secs
JFK ACT
FPC/HDR by
Declassify In part and excise as shown
EO-12356, Sec.

the night of the Generals' revolt in Algiers, it was noted with amusement that the top floor was ablaze with lights. (I am informed that Ambassador Bohlen was able to secure entrance that night to the CIA offices only with difficulty.)

CIA is apparently now firmly committed to the CAS approach as a permanent solution for its problems. It is pressing to have CIA people given the rank of Counselor. Before State loses control more and more of its presumed overseas personnel, and before CAS becomes permanently integrated into the Foreign Service, it would seem important (a) to secure every ambassador the firm control over the local CAS station nominally promised in the ICC Directive of January 19, 1961, and (b) to review the current CAS program with a view to a steady reduction of CAS personnel.

4.  Paramilitary warfare, I gather, is regarded in some quarters as a purely technical matter, easily detachable from policy and therefore a proper function of the Department of Defense. Yet there is almost no CIA function more peculiarly dependent on the political context than paramilitary warfare.

There are several reasons for this. For one thing, a paramilitary operation is in its nature a large and attributable operation and thereby, as suggested above, clashes with the presuppositions of our open society. (These considerations need not apply, however, to the training of, say, the South Vietnamese in guerrilla tactics or to the support of already existing guerrilla activities.) For another, the moral and political price of direct paramilitary failure is acute for us. Communists, when they stimulate paramilitary activity, are doing what the world expects from them; when we do it we appear to betray our own professed principles and therefore cannot afford to compound delinquency by defeat. Moreover, as the recent Algerian episode showed, once we convince the world that we are committed to a paramilitary endeavor, we will be blamed for all sorts of things. Likewise, as the recent tractors-for-prisoners episode had, when we do send men to possible death, we cannot lightly write them off and close the books. The Communists, on the other hand, have no scruples about liquidating a losing team.

NW 50955 DocId: 32281896 Page 5
