2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

157-10005-10424

Date: 10/08/93
Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY : CIA
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10005-10424
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : R1076

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT AS SANITIZED

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM : ELDER, WALTER
TO : MILLER, WILLIAM G.
TITLE : LETTER/ATTACHMENT
DATE : 09/09/75
PAGES : 4

SUBJECTS :
FOR TRANSMITTING REQUESTED INFO-DD/O LIAISON CONTACTS-MIAMI

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : S
RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/14/93
OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:
BOX 361-9
ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 50955 DocId: 32202614 Page 1

---

NW 50955
Box 361-9

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

SSCI BOX # 361-9

Review Staff: 75/2883
9 September 1975

Mr. William G. Miller
Staff Director
Select Committee To Study Governmental
Operations With Respect To Intelligence
Activitites
Room G-308
Dirksen Senate Office Building
Washington, D. C. 20510

Dear Mr. Miller:

In partial response to paragraph IV, (14) of your
31 July 1975 letter, we enclose for your information a
self-explanatory memorandum which reports certain DD/O
liaison contacts in the Miami area.

Sincerely,

Walter Elder
Assistant to the Director

Attachment:
As stated

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993
CIA HISTORICAL-REVIEW PROGRAM
AS SANITIZED 2-7-94

---

SECRET

51076

28 AUG 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR: SA/DDO (Mr. John H. Waller)
SUBJECT: JMWAVE Contacts with State, County and
Local Police Organizations and Individuals,
1960-1973
REFERENCE: Mr. Waller's Memorandum to DC/LAD dated
19 August 1975

The following is a list from the Latin America Division
of contacts between Station JMWAVE and state, county and local
police organizations and individuals in the Miami area between
1960-1973:

1. State

a. The Department of Public Safety provided the
Station with blank Florida drivers licenses when needed for
operational purposes by Station officers. These licenses,
which were never used as licenses to drive a vehicle, were
filled in with aliases and utilized primarily by Station
officers as a means of establishing identification under an
assumed name with informants such as Cuban exiles living in
the Miami area. The Station's point of contact (1962-1966)
was a Colonel H. N. Kirkman, Director of Public Safety.

b. The Florida Highway Patrol, which is part of
the Department of Public Safety, provided the Station
courtesy cards to facilitate their Agency work which requested
Florida highway patrolmen to render assistance to the bearer
of the cards. The Station also had access to the Highway
Patrol's communication system that could be used in an
emergency to establish contact with our officers in various
parts of the State of Florida when needed. Major Lee Simmons,
Inspector, Florida Highway Patrol, was the Station's point
of contact at the time, 1962-1966.

c. The Commissioner of Motor Vehicles in
Tallahassee, Florida, furnished the Station with "blocked"
automobile license plates for use on Station vehicles. These
plates protected Station personnel and installations, since
the records for the plates were withdrawn from the offices.
Any inquiries made by outsiders interested in establishing the identity of our officers driving
these vehicles (who might be engaged in a clandestine meeting
or other operational activity) would be referred to the
Commissioner's office, who would then "block" the information
from being released. The Division's records (1962-1966) list
Mr. Arch Livingstone as the Commissioner of Motor Vehicles.

SECRET
SEP 10 1975
EZ IMPDET
CL BY 012180
DocId: 32202614 Page 3

---

SECRET

2. County

a. The Criminal Intelligence Bureau of the Dade
County Sheriff's Department provided the Station with access
to other law enforcement agencies at state, county and local
levels anywhere in the United States for the purpose of keeping
track of Cuban exile movements. Through this office the
Station could also arrange to obtain vehicle accident reports.
Access to these reports was of particular value when Station
officers, on occasion when driving with alias documentation
and involved in an automobile accident, had identified them-
selves in alias because of the presence of agent personnel in
the vehicle. The Criminal Intelligence Bureau also provided
the Station with access to Cuban exile police records held
at various sub-stations within Dade county. At the time
(1962-1966) a Lieutenant Leslie J. VanDuskirk was in charge
of the Criminal Intelligence Bureau.

b. The Broward County Sheriff's Office provided the
Station with identification of owners of automobiles and boats
registered by Cuban exiles and other foreigners within the
county. No names were recorded as the Station's point of
contact in Broward County.

c. The Collier County Sheriff's Office provided
information on berthing sites in Naples, Florida. This
information was of security value as the Station maintained
a major operational berthing site in Naples, and it was
necessary to have advance information on over-the-road
shipments and logistic movements in the area. Sheriff Douglas Hendry was listed as the Station's point of contact,
1962-1966.

d. The Monroe County Sheriff's Office provided
berthing site information south of Miami down to the Florida
Keys. This information was of interest to keep track of
Cuban exile boat movements into the Caribbean. Sheriff Reace Thompson was listed as the Station's point of contact,
1962-1966.

RECEIVED
SEP 19 1975
CIA

SECRET
DocId: 32202614 Page 4

---

The Station maintained liaison with the City of Miami
Police Department, especially with the Criminal Intelligence
Section and the Detective Division. (These offices provided
the Station with access to police records on Cuban exiles
living in Miami.) The Criminal Intelligence Section (1962-1966)
was headed by Lt. (Harvard Swilley), a Sergeant Gow was in charge
of the Detective Division and a Mr. Demby was chief of the
Communications Division.

Contact with twenty-six other police departments in Dade
County including the City of South Miami, Coral Gables and
Miami Beach for operational purposes was available to the
Station through liaison with other major police departments
in the area.

RECEIVED FROM
SEP 10 1975
DocId: 32202614 Page 5
