Okay, here is the cleaned up text from the OCR extractions. I have combined the two versions, fixed errors, and formatted the text as markdown.
                
                157-10014-10242 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |
                JFK Assassination System Date: 08/09/95
                Identification Form
                
                Agency Information
                
                AGENCY: SSCIA
                RECORD NUMBER: 157-10014-10242
                RECORD SERIES: MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE
                AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 07-M-147
                
                Document Information
                
                ORIGINATOR: SSCIA
                FROM:
                TO:
                TITLE:
                DATE: 00/00/1975
                PAGES: 690
                SUBJECTS: ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
                ORGANIZED CRIME
                CIA
                ASSASSINATION, KENNEDY, JOHN
                DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
                CLASSIFICATION: Declassified
                RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C;3
                CURRENT STATUS: Redact
                DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/31/2000
                OPENING CRITERIA:
                COMMENTS: CCBOX 441
                
                v9.1
                HW 50955 DocId:32423630 Page 1
                
                JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
                IDENTIFICATION FORM
                
                AGENCY INFORMATION
                
                AGENCY: SSCIA
                RECORD NUMBER: 157-10014-10242
                RECORDS SERIES: MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE
                AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 07-M-147
                
                DOCUMENT INFORMATION
                
                ORIGINATOR: SSCIA
                FROM:
                TO:
                TITLE:
                DATE: 00/00/75
                PAGES: 690
                SUBJECTS: ORGANIZED CRIME
                ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
                CIA
                ASSASSINATION, KENNEDY, JOHN
                DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
                CLASSIFICATION: TOP SECRET
                RESTRICTIONS: REFERRED
                CURRENT STATUS: POSTPONED IN FULL
                DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/21/99
                OPENING CRITERIA:
                COMMENTS: CCBOX 441
                
                HW 50955 DocId: 32423630
                [R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
                Page 2
                
                SUNDAY NEWS JUNE 1, 1975
                SECRETS OF THE CIA
                American Mata Hari Who Duped Castro
                
                In its clandestine operations now undergoing a sometimes painful official
                refuting, the Central Intelligence Agency maintains, as always, a tight lip. But,
                from interviews with the agents who worked out to do the CIA's cloak-and-dagger
                work, News reporter Paul Meskil tells here for the first time of the intrigue
                that surfaced in the Cuban missile crisis, a confrontation that pushed the US,
                to the brink of war with the Soviet Union. First of a series.
                BY PAUL MESKIL
                A BEAUTIFUL German-American
                girl scored an intelligence coup for
                the CIA by stealing secret papers
                from the Havana hotel suite of the hi
                chadh Fidel Castro.
                In the papers, the tell
                tale maps showing the
                selected Soviet missile inst
                in Cuba.
                How did Marie Lorenz,
who quietly in New York, was the
of the Caribbean cold
She was one of the
Mchore of a CIA most plane
Matic
spied on Fidel.
the Central Indigence Apon
Frank orini, a time triple
who later became known to the meris
can public as Watergate burglar Frack
Ms. Lorenz, Sturgis, other formet
copionage agents, Caribbean conspira-
tors, aid Cuban freedom fighters were
interviewed
CIA
for this series. on
operations in the Caribbean and the
of their clandestine a
tic and sold here for the first time..
being investigated by the
Committee on Intelli-
Vice President Rockefeller's
on CIA Activities.
petite and
Committ
to cho'd
to courses, the CIA was,
or another; involved in:
assassinato foreign heads
of state, ncluding Castro of Cuba,
Papa Douvalier or Haiti and Rafael
Trajo of the Dominican Republic
ching a Cartroite attempt to
invade Panama and sabotage the Pana-
ma Canal.
The Explosion of a munitions ship
Havana harbor.
A fantastic scheme to rcize a
Soviet ship and use it to obtain the
release of the captured American spy
ship Pueblo.
• Secret deals with American mob-
sters who had lost their multimillion-
dollar Cuban gambling casinos.
• Armed raids on Cuba and many
shipments of guerrilla fighters, weap-
ons, explosives and other wer materi-
ale to the island before and after the
Day of Pigs fitco.
Marie Lerons played a small buts
important role in the labyrinth of
Caribbean comprimatics.
Her Culan
balmy event.
alanch
ary flag palich
tures bezen on"
Tehrony 1959, when.
Caban colution-
pleable the gleaming
white lurary relin, anchored in
Have her on the next-to-last stop
of a Caribbean cruise.
In the launch were 20 or so heavily.
armed Cubans, all wearing boards_and"
The
rumpled
fatigues
live-green
Hner's accommodation ladder was
(Continent en pats 05).
Bex 441
[
(Continued from page 2)
lowered End third (bearded
as albard like pirates, kro
mes dejgling frein their belts and
cure un swinging from their
shoulders
Women in evening gowns screamed
and ran for cover with their dinner-
jacketed husban la Lelieving the ship
was being ruled by andit But other.
American' trials recognized the leader
of the sinister-looking land as Fidel
Castro, the new pame minister of Cuba,
Pax they crowded around him fur: auto-
graph
"a friend," he shout obviously
ning the colution he find caused.
"like Americans."
The Berlin's supper, former German 1
Nivy Capt. Heinrich Lorenz, nited
the Parindos to day for cocktaily and
dinner, and he introduced Quatro this
vifarious 18-year-old daughter, Mari
"My father he Spanish an he
get along well with Castro," Maric old
this reporter. "He took Caro anhis
men on a tour of the ship, then diked
them to please leave their guns odde
1 dining room before the sat own
the
for dinner.
"Castro said they didn't feel safe
without guns, 50 my father allowed
Gm to keep their pistols, but he ade
Um legve the machine guils, automat
ic rifles and grenades in the smoking
Tooth
Cast sat at the captain's table,
between Lorenz and Marie. During the
meal, he smiled frequently at Marie,
nad she, was as impressed as any nur-
ful terbage girl would be by compli-
ments from, the flamboyant hero of the
Caban revolution.
She spoke German and English,
which she had learned from her Ameri-
can mother. Castro said he needed a
sacretary who could write letter in
these languages. Before the meal was
over, he offered the job to Marie.
Took Offer As Joke
"He asked me to stay in Ilavana
and work for him," she said. "My fa.
ther and both laughed. My father
said was going back to Germany to
finish my education."
Castro promised to write to her, so
she gave him two addressen--her par-
ents home in Bremen, Germany, and
her brother's apartment in New York,
where she planned to stay. when the
Caribbean cruise ended. She never ex-
pected to see or hear from Fidel again.
About two weeks later, two Cuban
officers called on Marie in New York.
They carried a message from Castro,
saying he was in desperate need of an
English-German translator. He had sent
Cubana Airlines plane to bring her
back to Havana.
"I made a big mistake," Afarle said.,
"I got on that plane."
During the flight to Havana, she
tried to imagine her life in Castroland.
She thought she will have a deck in
the premier's sccupatial wool and a
stall apartment of her own. She may
even have dreamed pf a romance with.
says
Sounce
G
SAC Garcia
Tarrabucci
NW 50955 DocId: 32423630
4
i
. Page 4..
Hi Who Duped Castio,
the fall, chari sație dictator. Huther
airborne illusions were shattered soon
after the plane Linded.
"I was ve Idealistic then," she
said. "I was gojbg on an adventure and
to my first 34 I was going to help
the new govern punt. Instead, I tame
Castro's playthi
"I was drip from the airpol to!
the Havana fion, where Fidel had
take over the 4th floor. For the next
four months, hardly ever got it of
the Hilton. When I did get out, it was,
ander guard. If wanted to go doja to
the pool or coffee shop, two bardos
would go with it."
We His Priloger'
Asked to define her relatio phip
with Castro dejing this period. Haris
said: "I was prisoner. was rap
ped"
"Were you ever in love with
Fidel?"
"No; never, flow can you be inlove
when you're afraid, when you're trated
like a piece of furniture, when pu're,
sleeping with a live Jaznoka, und the
bed, when you're living in a room with
Kuns on every table and cigar butik all
over the floor?"
"My way of thinking was Gerian,"
she continued. "Everything, in life
had been very orderly, very neat, and
clean. I never realized anyone, esteial-
ly a prime minister. could be so disor-
ganized. I thought he would have
several offices, with desks, chairs and
telephones. All he had, at this joint,
was B suite of rooms at the Hilton,
where he lived and workel. I was kept
in one of the roots. The door to the
hall was locked from the outside.
Babudus and visitors were in the pert
rooln, but the door between the
joms
was kept locked.
"All I could do read Books,
study Spanish, walk back and forth,
hsten to the radio or go on the baruny
and look out over lavuna. was
miserable. My father tried to find out
what had happened to me. He contact-
ed the American Embassy in Havan
Marie was born un American citizen)
but nothing happened.
was
"The only clothes I had were what 1
brought with me from New York. I
couldn't go out to buy anything. Fidel
had me measured for a uniform sol
would look like a member of the 26th
form with a lieutenant's atar.
of July Movement. An olive-green uni-
"That way, when I was allowed out
under guard, he thought people would
think I was of his officers. But
almost every llavana housewife heard
rumors that Castro was keeping a for-
eigner, an American girl, at the Hilton.
I was becoming a problem to him.
"One day two barbudos came to the
rooin while Fidel was out. They said
they were there to help me. They took
me on a 20-njinete plane ride to the
wowed me the
beautiful black road. I touched there and
then drove me hy jeep to this huge
prison complex. They showed me a cell
same food as the other
blacks beans,
fee. As far as I know, I was the only
woman there.
"Every morning we would hear the
firing squads. As soon as it got light,
the birds would start singing. Then the
guns would go off. Then marching and
quiet. Then breakfast and cell checks.
The guards would check to see if you'd
hanged yourself during the night or if
you'd done something wrong in there
where there was hardly room to turn
around. It was horrible.
"After seven days, I was taken out
and flown back to Havana."
Merin was never told why she was
jailed. She now believes Castro had her
locked up to make sure she didn't es-
Linking was German,"
NW 50955 DocId: 32423630
Page 4
where dictator Fulgencio Batista had
imprisoned Fidel and Raul (Fidel's
brother) years before. I went into the
rell to look at a bronze plaque on the
wall. They shut the door and locked me
in the cell. Then they went away.
She Wasn't Pampered
"I spent a week there, eating the
the

rice, stale bread and cof-
cape while he was out of the count y
visiting the United States and South
America.
One night she was with Castro, and
his bodyguards in the lobby of the
Rivera Hotel when a handsome, wary-
haired man approached her. He wore
the olive-green rebel uniform and the
insignia of a captain m the Cuban air
force.
While Castro was conferring with
his sides on the other side of the
lobby, the captain mingled with the
barbudos around Marie and whispered
to her in English: "I know about you."
"Can you help nie!" she responded.
"Can you get me out of here!"
"Yes. I'm with the American
Embassy. I'll get you out."
This was her introduction to Com-
mandante Frank Fiorini (later known
as Frank Sturgis), Castro confidant
and hired agent for the U.S. Central
Intelligence Agency.
Agrees to Spy on Fide!
For the next few weeks Frank kept
in contact with her in person and
through Castro officers who were
working for him. Marie agreed to spy
on Castro. She filched secret documenta
and reported Castro's conversations
with important visitors overheard
through the hotel, walls. By now, she
could read and speak Spanish fairly
well.
The suite was full of guns and
papers," she said, "Fidel had papers
strewn all over the tables, the flour,
the bed, the dresser. He had one filing
cabinet that was never locked. It was
full of money, papers, documents,
maps. I took papers out and slipped
them to Frank. Fidel never missed
them.
"Frank said, 'Get all the data you
enn, and I did. I was a regular Mata.
llari."
Then Marie became sick, and Frank
arranged her escape. Two Cuban offi-
cers took her out of the hotel while
Castro was away and put her on a
Cubana Airlines flight to New York.
About that time, Frank also set up
the escapes of two top Cuban air force
officers, a project that forced him to
leave Cuba. He moved his base of
operations to Miami, but he kept in
touch with his agents on the island and
his CIA contacta in Havana and Wash-
ington.
When she recovered from her ill-
ness, Marie jo,ned him in Florida and
volunteered fox n mission that meant
certain death if du were caught.
Early in 1900, Castro went to

--- Page 5 ---

NW 50955
DocId: 32423630
Page 5
SUNDAY NEWS; JUNE 1 1975
CIA Sent Bedmate
To Kill Castro in '60
By PAUL MESKIL
and New York
The Central Intelligence Agency sent a shapely Mata Hari to Cuba in
1960 to kill her former lover, Fidel Castro.
Details of this case were uncovered by The News and a Senate, Intelligenes
Committee investigator who
learned that a mystery
woman had been involved
in an assassination plot
against the Cuban dictator.
It was the first of several
CIA-sponsored attempts to exe-
cute Castro.
The mystery woman has now
been identified by the committee
and The News as Marie Lorenz.
an attractive German-American
brunette who shared Castro's
Havana hotel suite for soveral
months in 1950. When a commit-
tee investigator confronted her
with evidence linking her to the
assassination plot, she admitted
that she had been recruited for
the attempted hit.
Exclusive Account
Then, last week, she gave this
reporter an exclusive account of
a mission SO secret that she
never mentioned it to anyone for
16 years.
Ms. Lorenz., who now lives in
New York. is the daughter of
the late German Navy Capt.
Heinrich Lorenz and his Ameri
can wife. After World War II.
Lorenz became skipper of the
luxury liner Berlin. He took
along on a
Caribbean
Marie
cruise in Pary 1959.
month after stre took over
the Cuban government.
Castro boarded the Berlin in
Havana harbor and dined with
the captain and his vivacious
teenage daughter. He later per-
suaded Marie to return to Hava-
na to work as his personal inter-
preter. When she arrived she
was installed in Castro's 24th-
floor suite at the Havana Hilton.
She soon realized she was a
virtual prisoner.
Quizzed by FBI
Frank Fiorini, an American
who had become a Cuban Revo-
lutionary Army officer and
CLA agent, contacted her and
persuaded her to photograph
Castro's secret papers. He later
helped her escape.
She left Havana in January
The Memo That Started It
On Die: 11, 1959, Col. J. C. King, head of the CIA'S
Western Heal pliere Division, wrote a memorandamme
Director Allen Dalles, neording to a Senate committee
port. Noting the the left regime in built on
comage other Lain American
countries ', take
against 1.8. interests he recommended that: "Th
consideration be given to the elimination of Fly
None of those se to Fidel, such as his brother Kan
companion, Che Guevara, have the same mesme appeal to
the passes. Many informed people believe that the disappear
ance of Fidel would greatly accelerate a fall of the present
government.
Dulles an. Penty Director of Plans Richard Bles
approved the recommendation and The LA lannchenl
assassination campaten against Castro that lasted at
five years. This is the exclusive story of the first try.
!.

--- Page 6 ---

NW 50955
DocId: 32423630
Page 6
TWITT
CIA Sent a Bedmate
To Kill Castro in '60
am page 3)
York and
Hospital for
Fiorini gave her two capsules
full of poison powder. She was
told to sprinkle the powder in
Castro's coffee.
seren liness. "I guess the company (CIA) v
questioned her supplied them. Frank said it was 33
in baja company operation."
TOU
F
Packing the olive-drab uni- a
with form that Castro had given her.
a designating her a lieutenant in t
the Revolutionary Army, Ms.
Lorenz flew back to Havana on
Cubana Airlines. Believing she
might be searched at the airport, e
she hid the capsules in a jar of
cold cream in her purse. When e
she arrived in Havana she ti
checked into IL tourist hotel, e
changed into her Fidelista uni- A
ed in her absence. The sitting
room was crowded with Castro's thr
bearded, pistol-packing retain-
ers. The bedroom was littered
with papers, cigar butts and
guns.
She waited nervously In Cas
tro's private room until he came
in a few hours later. As soon as
he smiled and hugged her, she
knew he didn't suspect she had
visited the suite a few months
previously and stolen his secrets.
And he certainly didn't suspect
she had come back to kill him."
Do Not Disturb
jealousy, I "He asked why I left him and
at hand and Fidel I said it was because I missed
didn't even
my mother and my homie. He
started talking about Cuba and
the problems, the lack of money,
the shortages. He talked a long
time. He said he was expecting
an important phone call, but he
took the receiver off the hook
and he shouted to the barbudos
(bearded ones) in the next
room: No me moleste (Don't
bother me)'
"Finally he ordered food and
coffee sent up. When it came, he
fell asleep on the bed, in his
fatigues and with a cigar in his
mouth. I had no confidence left.
but I knew this was the chance
to do it.
"I went into the bathroom and
opened the jar of cold cream. I
stuck my finger in it and the
whole thing came out like yuck.
I couldn't find the capsules.
They had melter.
"It was like an omen.
"I couldn't just dump a glob
of cold cream in his coffee, so I
shut the jar and went back to
the bedroom and I watched him
sleeping. Finally I lay down on
the bed beside him.
"I thought. To hell with it.
Let history take its course.'
"Stupid, Stupid"
Frank and Alex met me when I
flew to Miami next morning.
They asked me what happened
and I said the capsules melted.
Frank was very upset. He said.
'Stupid, stupid, stupid. Why did
you put them in the cold cream?'
I said, 'Where else? It was the
only place to think of where no
one would find them.""
Ms. Lorenz was not asked to
try again.
Opera Singer Would you have killed him if
wwwwwwww
London, June 12 (UPI)
1n Giovanni reached for a
high note at the Royal Opera
House in London last night
and fell through the floor.
He stuck there, in the per-
son of singer Ruggero Rai-
mondi, trapped to his waist
and singing for dear life. Sir
Geraint Evans and his other
co-performers, still singing,
jagged and pulled. Eventual-
ly Raimondi climbed out, un-
hurt but shaken with his word
bent into a curve.
"They
Were
magnificent,"
said critic Hilton Tims, who
was in the audience. "They
carried on without letting the
incident upset their vocal
equilibrium."
50955
the capsules hadn't melted" the
interviewer asked. "No," she
replied. "Probably not."
Alex Rorke later disappeared
on a mystery flight to Nicara-
gua. Frank Fiorini, now known
as Frank Sturgis, continued to
perform odd jobs for the CIA
until his arrest in 1972 as one of
the Watergate burglars.
Informed of Ms. Lorenz' ac-
count of the assassination at-
tempt, he verified her story.
Soon after her murder mission
failed, the CIA recruited Mafia
mobsters
including John
Roselli of Las Vegas, Sam Gian-
cana of Chicago and Santo Traf-
ficante of Tampa, Fla. to kill
Castro. But they were no more
successful than the sexy. Mata
Hari.
DocId: 32423630 Page 7
છે.

--- Page 7 ---

NW 50955
DocId: 32423630
Page 7
Why doat you kill
"T don't know how,
er around him.
if it's in me to
"You
"T1
leaning:
ided on pof-
would be easy
food or
torre Yol
to go duwna

1

ny tet
Wohin!
“EE would chan ze 1
“Well, I don’t

odie

“They didn't tel) me to do ft

‘bearded,

Va HEE dbase. bie
room was crowded with Castro's
pistol-packing -retain-
urs. The bedroom “was littered
with papers, cigar butts and
guns. . 1

She waited nervously tir Cas.
tro’s private room antl he ‘came
in a few hours later. AS BOON aS
he smiled and hugged her, she
knew he didn't suspect she had
visited the suite a few months
previously and stolen his secrets.
nd he certainty didn’t suspect

‘she had come back to kiil him.

De Not Disturb

“We asked why T left him and
T said it was hecause I jnissed
my mother and my hone, He
started talking about Cuba and
thu problems, the Inck of money,
the short: He talked a long

time. He {he wae expecting
an important phene call, but he
jtook the receiver off the hook
pand he shouted to the barbudos
i¢bearded ones? in the next
room: "No mie moleste (Don't
bother me)’ :
“Finally he ordered foéd and

coffee sent up. W hen it came, he
fell asleep on the’ bed, his
fatigues and with a cigarzin his
mouth. I had no confidence, left,
but [ knew this was the ichance
to do it.

or not ta do it. They said ff 1
went Vd be protected, but who
could guarantee I'd yet out?”
\ Method Ready
Tarenz said she finally
te go to Miami with
Ropecting with Fiori-
said he had a way to do

snid she spent three
in a CLA “safe house” in
seeing ne one but Flori-

and Rorke. “They kept. talk-

me into it, They said, ‘You

do it, You're the only one |
whe can do it,

Asked if she now beheves she |
wcos brainwashed, she replied: “I
soso.” She said they append. |
edto her patriotism and told her
she “would pret thousands,
te sf she puc-

rh retin

ly agreed to ac-
vent, she said,

When she

cool the ass

Aria Floors
Opera Singer

London, Jine 12 (UPT)
Von Glevanni reached for a
honote at the Koyal Opera

sen London last) night
and fell throuh the floor,
He stuck there, in the per-
of aver Ruggero Rai-
miondi. trapped te his waist
and singing for dear life. Sir

Geraint Evans and his other
eo-performers, stil singing,
tagged and pulled. Eventual-

y  Raimondi climbed out, uns
“hurt but shaken with his word

bent into-a curve.

> “They

i

gon

were magnificent,”
said critic Hilton Tims, who
was in the audience. “They

carrted on without letting the

ineident upset their vocal
equilibrium. .
ern

0955 Docld:32423630 Page

“I went Into the bathroom and
opened the jar of cold cream. I
stuck my finger In it and the
whole thing came out like yuck.
I couldn't fint the capsules.
They had melted,

“Tt was like an omen.

“1 couldn't just dump a’ glob
of cold cream in his coffee, so I
shut the jar and went back to
the bedroom and I watched him
sleeping. Finally 1 lay down on
the bed beside him.

“T thought. ‘To hell with
Let history take ils course.’

“Stupid, Stupid”

Frank and Alex met me when T
flew to Miami ‘next morning.
They asked me what happened
and T said the capsules melted.
Frank was very upset. He sald,
‘Stupid, stupid, stupid. Why did
vou put them in the cold cream?’
T said, ‘Where else? It was the
only place to think of where no
ona would find them.’”

Ms. Lorenz was not asked to
try again.

“Would you have killed him if
the capsules hadn't melted * the
interviewer nsked. “No, she
replied. “Probably not.”

Alex Rorke later disappeared
ona mystery flight to Nicara-
gua, Frank Fiorini, now known
as Frank Sturgis, continued to
perform odd jobs for the CIA
until his arrest in 1972 as one of
the Watergate burglars.

Informed of Ms. Lorenz’
count of the assassination at-
tempt, he verified her story.

it.

Soon after her murder mission |

failed, the CIA recruited ‘Mafia
mobsters including John
Roselli of Las Vegas, Sam Gian-
cana of Chicago and Santo Traf-
ficante of Tampa, Fla. — to kill
Castro. But they were no more
fuccessful th than the sexy. Mata
ari. :

7?

bce

ace;

th

i
t
t

--- Page 8 ---

~ Central baelligeheu / Agency “tha invasion of 1,400 exiles ing to confirm or deny the ,. peotably not 58 ni .

Newspaper Names “AMafia Fign

SACRAMENTS CAR) == ‘the when At became obvious that ‘world: information, as “decline thing ‘bee that, ay senid {s: ve

veld on four cunderworkd “Was *@ failure, the mobster accounts Khem you reflect on It, hae .
anohsters for lntgiligence used beat roturned to Florida. ~ “The Bee reported that House not an impli siti .
in planning the" ill-fated. 198i! "Walsh identificd the. source _ ee HL - Se .
Bay of Pigs invasion’ét Cuba, “a his.information as a: former ‘Related Story ‘Page AS “. The Bee ald foc od the tout” .

_ day. : “si Tot. identify ‘the employe in ton, ‘retired general counsel of CIA ‘in the Bay of: Ags are:
The Cl’s underworld ine ‘id stóry, which tairied a Las the CIA, said of the story; . Still alive.
formants, all former. Havaoa- Vegas, Nev., date line. “{ do not ‘recollect such a.. It said ones Russell Befeile
casino besset, Tad--buried “ "Fe quoted Lawrence R. thing, but that doesn’t mean it, no, 7!, deseritz AHS qaine .
$759.00) in Cuba whan they. . Houstom, described ca tue CIA didn’t happen. I won't deny tt, . tre Tortheast.at Ponnsyi- sie"

. fled Fidel Cesro. Theresore . ovtistal {reales the under- but I don’t remember any-. (Please Toe, Ta A2, Cols) .

they had weak it eee ia : ee et oe
ing the United States, toutes” . a 7 :

dertuke the invasior to ‘over-
throw Casuv; the, Bee feporte
ed.

“The information iney sur on
plied to the CIA~ “supposedly '::
pinpointed troop: and naval , '
vessel positions,” Bee Investi--° a
gative reporter Denny Walsb.
wrote in tho Sunday edition. *

“More “unportantly, 4
haps, the mobsters
ported that many of the peo 3
ple of Havana: were ‘wsym>~
pathetic to Castro and: would
almost certainly, riso up fo }
support of a countes-reVolur ”

_ tlonary force’ once it had*es- « ; ce ' oe . 7

* Waish corthiued.

tablishod a peachhead,”

in exchange for-thei¢: help, o ae ; , ee soe :
the houdlumy had: been prom ce! : - :

ised they would’ be‘ allowed te
recover their buried cache ur

hindered, Walait

Hg sald 3h na Lge
shelr cory boat. th an CIA ,
ian abdard, standing off .

Cubge shoré when the hens :
Linvbiee scatetsb byt 5 . : nr a

--- Page 9 ---

4 Met. boss who wis cone,
Mtea “Just before his ‘hooknp |
ay a git tbe. CIA of- conspiring toy
"P obettuct fustico in lying abput «
+4 tee 1987 Mafla summit meet-
sq ing at Apalac in, N.Y...
, Tn hawspdpor said the othe
er ving inférmant {s-
; piso known ny,
who: was dencribe ag,
GG oversoer and nianagor of
* Mafia gambling © Intorests fa:
preLastre~ Cuba. Viol Bee
y sald he is -roportedly- living i in,
, [Coral Gables; Fis.’ ; L
“f° The other two ‘Were J.

; _ pais onset as a for

i Aqnar “Mafia. bijackor,’ labor’:
“rabketeor cand gaynient dls

trict strongman, ‘and--Salv:

- oath foe identified as a:
geal ise and , bans .

cad Plumeri and Granelld were”
“victims several years. Ego: of «
"Malntelated*: gangland execu "

Serb oed “font his .
(et ented * former :

Duitlng ‘the: proitss - Te.

the of. the *formor:.Cuban | te
i “~ Bulgencld Butista,

Cabino. gambling flourished in
‘thé country under. the “direc:
‘Noh and controt of the U.S."
‘Porg anized. crime ‘underworld. -
qihe Castro: revolution
Footed the mob ‘along with
jatista, and. the Cuban: pre-

: Spaibr's’ Communist govern:
4 Zangat bas. teaver: adowed tho
+ shesum! tion of mob pipettes

s

: ies, “made periodic re-

ports to the CIA until just

““pefore the abortive. T ‘Bay a

».Pigs fnvasion.

Pa Cuba for the informatio’ +7

“The taoney came, at least

{ inspart, from 0 $750,000 cache -

a “wrapped {noilcloth and bur-
* fed in the ground by Granotlo-+

and ‘Loving just before. thelr

_ hagly departure from Cuba

ducing the turbulent. days off
the Castro takeover, :

“It was the rest of this .
inoney that Granello, Levine, “

“Bufalino and Plumeri were
_ i asdured they would be able to »
| recover unhtudered if the Cas.”

tre government was toppled. fe
“hoy managed to got word »

“to ‘hoodlutns inside’ Cuba who
'Nenpw the whercabouts of the
“mdney to start buying stra:
' tegie Information. Other Cu-
ban associates of the four
‘gangsters were dispatched to” »
, the island from: Florida on”

intelligence-gathering sorties.”
- Kartier~ published.” reports

“pave said that in preparation

:

--- Continued from previous chunk ---

Okay, here is the cleaned-up and formatted text from the OCR extractions, combining the best aspects of both versions while adhering to your instructions:

--- Page 492 ---

No. 3
of V.T. Lee
Par New York, N.Y.
Substituted
115
1963
receipt, along
means is gratefully
so that you may have
tion and By-Laws for all
considerable autonomy
operate according to the
on which must be met.
discounted rate and resell at
er activities. Credit is
eet payment within a
operation.
New members as seem to exist
files and find that Louisiana
wever, with what is there
would undertake the disciplined
Chapter but certainly would
eded to conduct a legal executive
ld readily issue a charter for
"ew Orleans Chapter of FPCC. In fact, we would be very, very pleased to see this
take place and would like to do everything possible to assist in bringing it about.
We feel that the south-east is a very difficult area to work because of our lack of
contacts. Our only southeastern Chapter right now is that in Tampa, Florida which
I originally organized before coming up to work in the National Office.
I for one am convinced of the possibility of such an enterprise but know from
experience that it is quite a problem and requires some sacrifice on the part of
those involved.
You must realize that you will come under tremendous pressures with any attempt
to do FPCC work in that area and that you will not be able to operate in the manner
which is conventional here in the north-east. Even most of our big city Chapters have
been forced to abandon the idea of operating an office in public. The national office
here In New York is the only one in the country today and the New York City Chapter
uses our office too so it is the only Chapter with an office. Most Chapters have dis-
covered that it is easier to operate semi-privately out of a home and maintain a P.O.
Box for all mailings and public notices. ((A P.O. Box is a must for any Chapter in the
south.))
organization to guarantee the continued contact with the national even if an individual
should move or drop out. We do have a serious and often violent opposition and this
procedure helps prevent many unnecessary incidents which frighten away prospective
supporters. I definitely would not recommend an office, at least not one that will
be easily identifiable to the lunatic fringe in your community. Certainly, I would not
recommend that you engage in one at the very beginning but wait and see how you can
operate in the community through several public experiences.
We will be able to give you some assistance from here, but not much. It is up
to the local Chapters to handle their own affairs. You should have at least access
V. T. Lee Exhibit 3
LEE (VINCENT T.) EXHIBIT No. 3-Continued

--- Page 493 ---

SECRET
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
Deputy Director (Plans)
Cost of Cuban Operations
Fiscal Years 1960 - 1964

| Fiscal Year | Support/Administrative | Covert Collection | PA/Prod/Propaganda | Covert Action | Paramilitary/Brigade Support | Post-Invasion/ | Total |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| 1960 | $319,534 | $131,063 | $1,677,161 | $318,409 |  |  | $2,446,167 |
| 1961 | 6,293,580 | 457,633 | 5,168,584 | 30,164,698 |  | $1,627,824 | 43,712,319 |
| 1962 | 3,599,274 | 793,824 |  | 6,444,098 | 2,975,635 |  | 13,812,831 |
| 1963 | 4,176,000 | 17,988,831 | 5,343,973 | 1,738,977 | 5,786,797 | 5,038,880 | 39,073,377 |
| 1964 (est.) | 3,899,830 | 5,030,000 | 21,808,457 | 1,767,500 | 3,520,000 | 9,317,500 | 45,343,387 |
| Total | 20,586,361 | 4,888,997 | 22,596,640 | 47,815,122 | 10,268,654 | 16,473,324 | 122,629,108 |

a/ Copy
b/ Support/Administrative: Includes staff salaries, purchase of equipment and supplies, rental of properties and facilities, etc.
c/ Covert Collection: Includes foreign intelligence collection operations and counter-intelligence operations involving the use of classic agent operations, audio and other technical devices, use of third-country intelligence and security services, refugee debriefings, etc.
d/ Covert Action: Includes the broad field of psychological warfare and paramilitary activities encompassed by NSC 5412.
e/ PA/Prop: Includes political action and propaganda operations involving the use of newspapers, magazines, other publications, radio, television, etc.
f/ Paramilitary: Includes maritime operations, air operations, training, military hardware, the formation, development, and dispatch of groups in paramilitary operations.
g/ Brigade Support: Includes payments to dependents of Brigade 2506 wounded, missing, or killed in action, medical and rehabilitation costs of released Brigade members, direct payments to Brigade members, etc.
h/ Includes a total of $345,000 for the operation of the inter-Agency Caribbean Admissions Center at Opa Locka, Florida: $95,000 for fiscal year 1962 and $250,000 for fiscal year 1963.
i/ Includes $5,000,000 for support of autonomous Cuban groups under the covert program approved in June 1963.

15 December 1963
TAB C

--- Page 494 ---

SECRET
This document contains 15 pages
Copy No. 7 of 2 Copies, Series
About 1/25/64.
REVIEW OF CURRENT PROGRAM OF
COVERT ACTION AGAINST CUBA
See page 14.
I. The Current Situation in Cuba
During 1963 the situation in Cuba steadily worsened. The
economy continued its decline and Castro was not able to halt
the downward curve. Hurricane Flora intensified Cuba's economic
problems. Disillusionment and apathy among the great majority
of the population continued to grow, and enthusiasm was increasingly
restricted to a hard core. As popular support waned, coercion and
terror were employed more and more to maintain the regime's control.
Castro's drive to convert Cuba into a standard communist prototype
caused increasing disillusionment among his original followers.
His stature in the eyes of many Cubans and Latin Americans suffered
with the realization, in the aftermath of the October missile crisis,
that Cuba had been a pawn and Castro a dupe of Soviet policy.
Despite extraordinary efforts, Castro has not been able to
stop acts of defiance against his regime. Guerrilla activity,
although scattered and uncoordinated, continues. Spontaneous
acts of sabotage are common throughout the island. At great
risk refugees still elude his security forces and sea patrols
to escape from Cuba. In this atmosphere, externally mounted
raids against Cuban targets have added to Castro's sense of
frustration and helped sustain hope among the many Cubans dis-
illusioned with his regime.
During 1963 Cuba's international situation seemed almost as
bad as the domestic. Although chinks appeared in the wall, the
U.S. policy of economic and diplomatic isolation of Cuba was
holding up fairly well. Soviet-Cuban relations clearly were under
strain. Castro scored no foreign policy victories to provide a
much needed psychological boost. His major effort to stimulate
Castro-type armed uprisings throughout Latin America failed to
disrupt the Venezuelan elections of December and netted a potentially
embarrassing exposure that Cuba had shipped arms clandestinely to
Venezuela. These internal and international trends and develop-
ments brought Cuba to a low point during 1963.
Within the past few weeks, however, five developments have
given the Castro regime an important political-psychological
NW 50955
DocId: 32423630 Page 497
SECRET SENSITIVE
Copy
Lyndon B. Johnson Library

--- Page 495 ---

SECRET SENSITIVE
2
lift. They are:
1. The realization in the Cuban Government that the
continuing high sugar prices in the world market
have enabled Cuba to expand its convertible
currency reserves from about $20 million to
almost $100 million during the year.
2. The Soviet-Cuban trade protocol for 1964, signed
on January 11, and the Khrushchev assurances of
January 22, demonstrated a Soviet willingness to
maintain its aid and trade program at a very
substantial level and to support Cuban sugar
prices. The protocol calls for Cuban-Soviet trade
to increase by 22 per cent over 1963. Soviet
exports, about 40 per cent of which will be on
credit, will increase by at least 10 per cent.
3. The distinct possibility that the United States
policy of economic and diplomatic isolation of Cuba
may not be able to stand in the face of increasing
pressures from Western countries to expand trade
with Cuba, extending credit if necessary. The
British bus deal, with payment spread over a
five-year period, is an important political and
psychological triumph for Castro. Its erosive
effects on potential Cuban suppliers are already
clear.
4. The recent rioting and violence in Panama, in which
Castro had some hand, will inject new revolutionary
fervor into Castroite activities. In addition,
Panama and its aftermath will take the play away
from the incident of the Venezuela arms cache.
5. The revolt in Zanzibar, in which Castro also had a
hand, is bound to impress Latin America as well as
other unstable areas with the length of Fidel's
arm and the potency of his doctrine.
NW 50955 DocId: 32423630 Page 498
SECRET SENSITIVE
Copy
Lyndon B. Johnson Library

--- Page 496 ---

SECRET SENSITIVE
3
These recent developments have provided the upward
political and psychological thrust Castro's regime badly
needed. He now has a firmer base for his repeated claims
that Cuba has survived the full brunt of a major United States
effort to destroy the Cuban revolution, claims likely to im-
press many Latin Americans as well as Cubans. In addition,
Castro now has the possibility of producing some tangible evidence
that his regime can restore forward momentum in the economy.
Consequently, the general position of the Castro regime is
much improved over that of three or four months ago.
II. Current U. S. Policy and Program
The ultimate U.S. objective is the replacement of the
present government in Cuba by one fully compatible with the
goals of the United States.
To attain this objective, we are trying, by exerting
maximum pressure through all means short of the use of mili-
tary force, to create a degree of disorganization, uncertainty
and discontent in Cuba which will (a) predispose elements in
the military and other power centers of the regime to bring
about the overthrow of the Castro/Communist group and the
elimination of the Soviet presence in Cuba; (b) weaken the
base for subversion in the Hemisphere; and (c) assist in
convincing the Soviets that they are backing a losing and
expensive horse.
In order to create the optimum situation just described,
we have been carrying out a program of integrated, mutually
reinforcing and mutually dependent courses of action. These
comprise:
A. The economic, political and psychological isolation
of Cuba from the free world
1. Denial of free-world markets and sources of
supply to Cuba: We have undertaken a variety
of overt and covert activities designed to
reduce free-world trade with Cuba and, especially,
to deny Cuba access to commodities critical to
NW 50955 DocId: 32423630 Page 499
SECRET SENSITIVE
Copy
Lyndon B. Johnson Library

--- Page 497 ---

SECRET SENSITIVE
4
its economy. Proposals for expanding and intensi-
fying these activities are now being presented.
The execution of these additional measures depends
basically on a decision to incur the considerable
political costs and risks that are entailed.
2. The reduction of free-world shipping in the Cuba
trade: We have maintained diplomatic pressure
on free-world nations to reduce and eventually
eliminate their ships in the Cuba trade. We have
denied U.S. financed cargoes in U.S. ports to
ships in the Cuba trade (NSA 220, 23 amended).
To the same general end, we have employed existing
legislation, and the threat of additional legis-
lation, restricting economic and military assist-
ance to countries with ships in the Cuba trade.
3. The reduction of free world, and the containment
of Soviet Bloc, air service to Cuba: We have
maintained diplomatic pressures on free-world
countries having, or wishing to establish, air
service to Cuba. We are invoking recent legis-
lation denying assistance to countries whose
ships and aircraft carry commodities to and from
Cuba. In addition, we have exerted diplomatic
pressures on free-world countries to deny their
facilities to Soviet Bloc and Cuban airlines
serving or trying to serve Cuba, or harass such
airlines.
4. The limitation of free-world diplomatic relations
with Cuba: As opportunity has offered, we have
exerted pressure to persuade free-world countries
to break diplomatic relations with Cuba or to
prevent the establishment of such relations with
Cuba.
5. Efforts to undermine the Castro image abroad and
to frustrate Cuban attempts to enhance that image:
By means of diplomatic, propaganda and covert
measures we have endeavored to demonstrate the
weakness, failures and betrayals of the Castro
regime.
NW 50955 DocId: 32423630 Page 500
SECRET SENSITIVE
Copy
Lyndon B. Johnson Library

--- Page 498 ---

SECRET SENSITIVE
5
B. Defense against Castro-Communist Subversion
1. Within Cuba: As indicated above, all our efforts
to bring about disorganization, uncertainty and
discontent in Cuba are intended to weaken the
Cuban base for Castro/Communist subversion.
2. Outside Cuba:
a. Multilateral: We have sought, through the OAS,
to obtain general Latin American recognition
of the seriousness of the subversive threat
and approval of recommendations of measures
to limit travel to and from Cuba, and the
transfer of funds and propaganda. At the
present time, we intend to expand and intensify
this effort through actions to be taken by the
OAS on the basis of the Venezuelan complaint
against Cuba. Beyond the activities in the OAS,
we have made special efforts with the Central
American countries and Panama to have them
tighten controls on the activities and movement
of subversives, to develop inland and inshore
surveillance capabilities, to create effective
intelligence organizations and to establish a
system of intelligence exchange.
b. Bilateral: Through training, material assist-
ance and exchange of intelligence, we have
worked to improve the internal security
capabilities of individual countries.
c. Unilateral: In addition to multilateral and
bilateral measures, we have continued to
maintain our surface patrols in the vicinity
of Cuba, to improve our own communications
systems and to develop our own intelligence
capabilities against subversive activities.
SECRET SENSITIVE
Copy
Lyndon B. Johnson Library
NW 50955 DocId: 32423630 Page 501

--- Page 499 ---

SECRET SENSITIVE
6
C. The reduction and eventual elimination of the Soviet
military presence in Cuba
We have maintained diplomatic pressure on the Soviets
to continue troop withdrawals and we have warned the
Soviets that we will not tolerate the use of Soviet
forces in Cuba to suppress popular uprising.
D. The collection of intelligence
We have maintained and improved our overt and covert
collection of intelligence to meet not only U.S.
strategic requirements but also operational require-
ments connected with our covert activities within Cuba.
We have maintained periodic high-level overflights
supplemented on a few occasions by low-level flights.
We have warned the Soviets and Cubans against inter-
ference with these flights.
E. Covert operations to weaken and undermine the Castro
Regime
A detailed discussion of the covert elements of our
program appears in Section III.
As stated above, all these courses of action interact and
are interdependent. For example, our covert economic denial
operations are designed to reinforce and be reinforced by our
overt measures of economic pressure. Both types of activities
directed against the economy are intended to aggravate existing
economic difficulties and thus to increase the level of dis-
affection not only in the popular mass but particularly in
the power centers of the regime. This disaffection enhances
our ability to establish meaningful contact with figures in
the military and other power centers and to develop intelli-
gence sources. This disaffection is in turn intensified by
the evidence of vulnerability to outside attacks provided
by the success of covert sabotage and harassment activities.
SECRET SENSITIVE
Copy
Lyndon B. Johnson Library
NW 50955 DocId: 32423630 Page 502

--- Page 500 ---

SECRET SENSITIVE
7
By the same token, the failure or elimination of one of these
mutually supporting courses of action jeopardizes the others
and thus compromises the entire program.
Through 1963, these courses of action were having a measur-
able positive impact. We are now confronted, however, by a
series of developments, described in Section I, which threaten
to arrest or even reverse our forward movement. The situation
is particularly acute with respect to the maintenance of our
economic pressures. This fact makes this review of our covert
operations particularly timely and important.
III. Concept of the Covert Action Program
The CIA covert action program aims at maintaining all
feasible pressures on Cuba and at creating and exploiting
situations in Cuba calculated to stimulate dissident elements
within the regime, particularly in the armed forces, to carry
out a coup. The objective of the coup would be to remove
the Castro/Communists from the regime and to eliminate the
entire Soviet presence from Cuba. Recognizing that the U.S.
is engaged in a race against time with Cuba and its Soviet
ally to obstruct the consolidation of Castro's regime at home
and to prevent him from achieving his ambitions in Latin
America, we set the time frame for this program at about
eighteen months from June 1963.
As originally conceived and approved in June 1963, the
covert action program was based on the assumption that U.S.
policy precludes a military invasion or a full blockade of
Cuba which could lead to a confrontation with the Soviet Union.
In addition, the covert action program was and is predicated
on the thesis that its chance of success would depend heavily
on a sustained and intensive effort in other sectors, parti-
cularly the overt economic denial and political isolation
programs, by all elements of the United States Government.
Thus, the inter-action of the overt and covert effort against
Cuba is regarded as a vital and irreplaceable factor if there
is to be any hope of accomplishing the overall mission.
NW 50955 DocId: 32423630 Page 503
SECRET SENSITIVE
Copy
Lyndon B. Johnson Library

--- Page 501 ---

SECRET SENSITIVE
8
CIA's integrated covert action program consists of the
following interdependent courses of action:
1. Covert collection of intelligence to meet U.S.
national security requirements and to support
current and planned covert operations. It should
be noted that clandestine maritime operations are
an integral part of intelligence collection.
2. Propaganda actions to stimulate low-risk simple
sabotage and other forms of active and passive
resistance against the regime.
3. Economic denial actions in support of government-
wide overt official U.S. economic isolation
measures.
4. Exploitation and stimulation of disaffection in
the Cuban armed forces and other power centers of
the regime to encourage these elements to carry out
a coup against the Castro/Communist factions. CIA
is identifying, contacting and attempting to es-
tablish channels of communication with these indi-
viduals.
5. General sabotage and harassment as an economic weapon
and as a stimulus to internal resistance. As an
economic weapon, it is designed to supplement and
support the overall economic denial program by
damaging economically important installations and to
add to Castro's economic problems by forcing him to
divert money, manpower and resources from economic
to internal security activities. As a stimulus to
resistance, sabotage and physical harassment operations
provide visible and dramatic evidence of the existence
and capability of organized resistance against the
regime. To the extent that these operations are
successful, they also demonstrate to the Cuban
population and elite groups the vulnerability of the
regime to militant action. It is recognized that no
single act of sabotage by itself can materially affect
the economy or stimulate resistance, but we believe
that the
NW 50955 DocId: 32423630 Page 504
SECRET SENSITIVE
Copy
Lyndon B. Johnson Library

--- Page 502 ---

SECRET SENSITIVE
9
that the cumulative psychological and political
impact within Cuba of sustained sabotage operations
is a necessary element in the accomplishment of our
mission.
6. Support of autonomous anti-Castro Cuban exiles
These operations are intended to provide
a deniable activity, a means of supplementing and
expanding our covert capability and a means of taking
advantage of untapped political and resistance resources
of the exile community. The program now includes two
autonomous groups whose credibility as to autonomy is
strengthened by the facts that:
Both are led by men whose prominence and status
in the Cuban exile community makes plausible their
access to funds, equipment and manpower quite in-
dependent of the U.S.;
Both are based in the Caribbean area outside of
U.S. territory;
Both have natural, willing allies in power in
several Latin American countries;
Both are Cuban and employ Cuban nationals
exclusively;
Every item of financial and logistic support has
been handled in a manner as to provide maximum
protection against proof of CIA or U.S. parti-
cipation.
The initial aim of these operations is to strengthen
the will to resist by increasing the tempo of sub-
version and sabotage largely maintained until now
by CIA; the eventual aim is to take the fight
from the coastline to the interior of Cuba.
The disadvantage of our autonomous operations is
that it is necessary to accept a lower order of
efficiency and control than would be considered
acceptable in CIA-run operations. It is unlikely
that in the next months the autonomous groups
will develop the ability to match CIA-controlled operations,
either in quantity or quality.
If sabotage and harassment operations were to be terminated
for the autonomous groups as well as for the Agency, its
support to the autonomous groups must also be terminated
completely as otherwise we would not be in a position to
insure that they would discontinue raids and sabotage.
Such termination would compound the effects of the cessation
of our own raids, particularly in those areas in the Caribbean
where the autonomous groups have been most active.
SECRET SENSITIVE
Copy
Lyndon B. Johnson Library
NW 50955 DocId: 32423630 Page 505

--- Page 503 ---

SECRET SENSITIVE
10
Of the foregoing inter-locking courses of action, items
(1) and (2) are in train and no policy problems regarding them are
expected. Item (3) is the subject of another paper which
is being presented for concurrent consideration. Item (4)
is the essence of our program and is dependent for its success
on the results of all other overt and covert courses of action.
Item (5) has been the subject of continual review since the
inception of the program and is the primary subject of this
paper. Consideration of Item (6) (autonomous operations) should
take place with a discussion of sabotage and harassment (Item 5).
These latter two items are discussed in more detail in Section V
below.
IV. The Sabotage Program in Retrospect
We know of at least 80 acts of internal sabotage and 60
armed clashes between Cuban security forces and insurgents
since 1 June. Insurgency and sabotage inside Cuba are not
part of a coordinated program; they are acts of individual
or small group defiance. They are stimulated by many factors,
and no one factor can be assigned entire credit. Sabotage
incidents, which include a high proportion of sugar cane
burnings, have a tendency to be seasonal, a fact which further
obscures statistical analysis. Although it is true that from a
low point in sabotage incidents during the summer of 1963
there was a heavy increase during the fall (following the
commencement of our raiding activity), we believe that clearer
light is shed on the effects of our harassment program by the
statements of witnesses of varying points of view within Cuba
and by the acts of the Cuban regime itself.
Since 1 August 1963, five sabotage raids have been
attempted. All were successful. There was substantial
damage to the target; all participants were safely recovered
and the plausible deniability of the operations was not
compromised.
1. Annex I contains a brief review of these operations.
SECRET SENSITIVE
Copy
Lyndon B. Johnson Library
NW 50955 DocId: 32423630 Page 506

--- Page 504 ---

SECRET SENSITIVE
11
The lack of proof of U.S. involvement did not prevent
Castro from charging the CIA with responsibility. Indeed,
almost every act of defiance against his regime has been
credited to the Agency.
Castro's emotional reactions to real or rumored security
threats point up his acute sensitivity to internal resistance
and suggests that he feels his regime to be far from secure
from external threats. The Soviet Union, on the other hand,
had reacted to the sabotage raids with much less vigor and
bluster than we anticipated. Their only sharp reaction,
aside from the expected propaganda, followed a series of air
raids during August and September sponsored by Cuban exile
groups operating from Florida and for which the Agency had
no responsibility. They did no real damage, but they did
demonstrate that the Cuban air defense system could be
breached, and they added substantially to the psychological
impact of our first two raids.
The Agency sabotage raids produced some very specific
results. For example, in the political and psychological
realm, Canadian Ambassador Kidd reported in late August
that the incidents that month, including the Santa Lucia
and Casilda operations "disturbed the feeling of consoli-
dation and tranquility which the Castro regime had succeeded
in creating in recent months." He reported that the Cubans
were uncertain and apprehensive over the possibility of a
U.S. campaign of subversion and sabotage because of Cuba's
vulnerability to such a campaign due to the "low ebb" of
enthusiasm for the Castro regime among the people. He also
stated that the raids had "raised hopes of those opposed
to the regime" and that "dispirited opposition had received
a fillip to its morale."
In a September report, Ambassador Kidd stated that
the "most immediate effect of such attacks is the psycho-
logical blow dealt to the stability of the Castro regime,
with consequent boost in opposition." Low morale and
dejection in the counterrevolutionary ranks of some months
SECRET SENSITIVE
Copy
Lyndon B. Johnson Library
NW 50955 DocId: 32423630 Page 507

--- Page 505 ---

SECRET SENSITIVE
12
ago, he said, "has given way to a sense of optimism that the
Maximum Leader is no longer necessarily a permanent fixture.
Ambassador Kidd also reported that Che Guevarra had indicated
concern that the raids would divert much needed manpower
and resources from the economic to the military sector.
On 4 September a reliable clandestine source in Cuba
reported that the reaction of the average man on the street in
Havana to the news of the attacks on Casilda and Santa Lucia
"astounding." Prior to the Cuban government's announce-
ment of the raids, the average man on the street seemed
apathetic, depressed and in a low state of morale. Following
the announcement their mood changed to one of pleasure, joy,
and hope. The observations of this source were reinforced
by the statements of Cuban refugees who arrived in the U.S.
shortly after the Cuban announcement of the raids.
A former Major in the Cuban Rebel Army who broke with
Castro reported after his exfiltration from Cuba in January
1964 that the 23 December Siguanes raid which destroyed a
P-6 patrol boat was a great boost to morale among disaffected
Cubans.
A Cuban lawyer with extensive connections among Cuban
government officials and in the Western community in Havana
has just reported that the morale effects of the recent
sabotage operations are good among anti-regime segments of
the population. Such acts, to them, indicate that the outside
world is not forgetting the Cuban people, that the fight con-
tinues and suggests a possible prelude to some military action
against Castro. Opposite morale effects are noted among the
pro-regime segments who have tended to remain notably quiet
about the regime after successful sabotage operations.
A Cuban communications technician employed by the Cuban
government reported on 1 January that the "act of sabotage
against the torpedo boat on the Isle of Pines was very success-
ful in the opinion of the people and, for sure, public opinion
needed something to stimulate it. What happened at La Siguanea
had such an effect. Although at times failures are suffered
which depress the people, they are anxious for something to
happen."
SECRET SENSITIVE
Copy
Lyndon B. Johnson Library
NW 50955 DocId: 32423630 Page 508

--- Page 506 ---

SECRET SENSITIVE
13
The raids also had an impact on the Cuban military and
security forces. Certain areas and ports were placed on
special alert status. Forces are often rushed to defensive
positions; ground, naval, and air patrols are frequently
launched or intensified; and defensive positions in industrial
or agricultural complexes are manned to meet the real or
imagined threats. The raids interfere not only with routine
military training but also with work on construction and
agricultural projects which use military personnel. Raul
Castro personally investigated the Siguanea incident.
In addition, Castro expanded his coast watching network
from 46 observation posts at the end of June to 103 at the
end of October. These posts have radio communications and are
manned by 10 to 25 full-time personnel. In a further effort
to seal Cuba's shores, at least 10 surface search radar stations
have been established since June, and we have evidence tenta-
tively identifying 7 more.
Castro's fear of rising dissidence and insurgency is
reflected in his initiation of a wide variety of repressive
measures. Many are bound to have adverse political, psycho-
logical or economic repercussions inside Cuba. He has con-
ducted almost constant anti-insurgent operations involving
units of up to 2,500 men. Air, naval and ground force
elements have been put on special alert, either on a local
or island-wide basis, on at least 35 occasions during 1963
as a result of rumored or actual maritime operations. Resi-
dents in areas of guerrilla activity have been forcibly
relocated, and restrictions have been placed on transportation
in suspect areas. In August 1963 a new internal security
force, the Lucha Contra Piratas, was formed to attempt to
cope with off-shore raiding parties. In September new training
courses were initiated for command cadres of "popular defense
units." The purpose of these units is to organize the people
to defend themselves against enemy attack and to protect
industrial centers and installations from sabotage.
Despite these measures to increase Cuba's defensive
capability against raids, we have continued to improve our
own infiltration techniques and are still able to penetrate
Cuba's
NW 50955 DocId: 32423630 Page 509
SECRET SENSITIVE
Copy
Lyndon B. Johnson Library

--- Page 507 ---

SECRET SENSITIVE
14
Cuba's defenses with good regularity. Raiding operations of
this sort, however, always present risk and we must assume
that captured Cuban agents will reveal U.S. involvement as they
have done in the past giving Castro the opportunity to make
vociferous propaganda against U.S. aggression. In addition,
although Khrushchev has not made Agency harassing raids the
subject of special protest (as he did in the case of the
exile air raids in August and September), a major step-up
in the frequency or scale as, for instance, an attack on
a major economic target such as Matanzas or Santiago, might
bring about a Soviet protest. The chance of a physical
retaliation by Castro as, for instance, an attack upon a
U.S. installation in the Caribbean, although unlikely,
cannot be entirely discounted.
If Castro is to be brought down without overt military
action the main effort will have to come from inside Cuba.
We believe that there is sufficient evidence to show that
sabotage raids, despite the risk involved, are a necessary
stimulus to internal action which will need to be continued for
a considerable period to permit the tempo of internal acts to
reach a point where it can become self-sustained.
V. Impact of Cessation of Sabotage Operations
Because of the visible and dramatic nature of sabotage
operations, their cessation would soon be noted by all
interested parties to and observers of U.S/Cuban relations.
The cessation of these raids, however disclaimable by the
U.S. the raids themselves may be, would probably be inter-
preted in Latin America and certainly inside Cuba as a switch
of U.S. policy from one of discreet encouragement and support
of aggressive action against the Castro regime to one of
"coexistence" and eventual accommodation with a Castro/Communist
Cuba. Without constant and visible signs of offensive action
against Cuba, a weakening process would be set in motion
which could well lead the countries of Latin America to draw
their own conclusions from these indicators and embark on
accommodation policies of their own. Those governments in
Latin America already threatened by Castroites in their own
countries are likely to be subjected to even stronger domestic
As this
NW 50955 DocId: 32423630 Page 510
SECRET SENSITIVE
Copy
Lyndon B. Johnson Library

--- Page 508 ---

SECRET SENSITIVE
15
As this belief spreads, Western European and other free
world countries eager to trade with Cuba will come to feel
that they may safely ignore and evade, to an even greater
extent than they do now, U.S. appeals for the economic and
political isolation of Cuba. An important additional economic
effect would be the release into normal economic activity of
manpower and funds now tied up in defense against raids.
Finally, and most important, this development in time
is bound to have a severe demoralizing effect on the internal
resistance against Castro. The Cuban exile community and
particularly its militant and articulate elements would be
acutely sensitive to a cessation of raids and can be expected
to react vociferously. Judging from past experience, we
can expect a new surge of domestic political agitation on
the part of the numerous Cuban exiles who have political
connections within the U.S.
In the event that it is decided to terminate CIA-
controlled sabotage and harassment operations