```markdown
157-10014-10151 [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System Date: 07/07/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: 157-10014-10151
RECORD SERIES: MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE
AGENCY FILENUMBER: 07-M-56

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: SSCIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: SELECT COMMITTEE ASSASSINATION REPORT
DATE: 09/01/1975
PAGES: 560
SUBJECTS: SSCSGO, REPORT
DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION: Declassified
RESTRICTIONS: [B; 1C
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/21/2000
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS:

HW 50955 DocId:32423539 Page 1

Date: 08/07/95
Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: 157-10014-10151
RECORDS SERIES: MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 07-M-56

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: SSCIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: SELECT COMMITTEE ASSASSINATION REPORT
DATE: 09/01/75
PAGES: 560
SUBJECTS: SSCSGO, REPORT
DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION: TOP SECRET
RESTRICTIONS: REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS: POSTPONED IN FULL
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/08/99
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HW 50955 DocId:32423539 Page 2

September 1, 1975

SELECT COMMITTEE - ASSASSINATION REPORT

Tab A: PROLOGUE
Tab B: Part I: Introduction and Summary
Tab C: Part II: Covert Action as Vehicle for Foreign Policy Implementation
Tab D: Part III/Cuba
Tab E: Part III/Dominican Republic
Tab F: Part III/Chile
Tab G: Part III/Congo

Tab H: Part III/South Vietnam

Tab I: Part IV: Findings and Conclusions
Tab J: Part V: Recommendations

HW 50955 DocId:32423539 Page 3

Agreed to by Subcommittee
October 8, 1975
PROLOGUE

The events discussed in this Interim Report must be viewed in
the context of United States policy and actions designed to counter
the threat of spreading Communism. Following the end of World
War II, many nations in eastern Europe and elsewhere fell under
Communist influence or control. The defeat of the Axis powers was
accompanied by the rapid disintegration of the Western colonial
empires. The Second World War no sooner ended than a new struggle
began. The Communist threat, emanating from what was then called
the "Sino-Soviet bloc," produced a policy of containment intended
to prevent further encroachment by Communism into the "free world."

United States strategy for conducting the Cold War called for
the establishment of interlocking treaty arrangements and military
bases throughout the world. Our concern over the expansion of an
aggressive Communist monolith led the United States to fight two
major wars in Asia. In addition, it was considered necessary to
wage a relentless cold war against Communist expansion wherever
it appeared in the "back alleys of the world." This called for a
full range of clandestine activities in response to the operations
of Communist clandestine services.

The fear of expanding Communism was particularly acute when
Fidel Castro emerged as the leader of Cuba in the late 1950's.
His takeover was seen as the first significant penetration by the
Communists into the Western Hemisphere. U.S. leaders, including

NW 50955 DocId:32423539 Page 4

most Members of Congress, called for vigorous action to stem the
Communist infection in this hemisphere. These policies rested on
widespread popular support and encouragement.

Throughout this period, the U.S. felt impelled to respond to
threats which were, or seemed to be, skirmishes in a global Cold
War against Communism. Castro's Cuba raised the spectre of a Soviet
outpost at America's doorstep. Events in the Dominican Republic
appeared to offer more such opportunities for the Russians and their
allies. The Congo, freed from Belgian rule, occupied the strategic
center of the African continent, and the prospect of Communist pene-
tration there was viewed as a threat to American interests in emerging
Africa. Americans are well aware of the powerful reactions set off
in the United States in the 1960's by the domino theory in Indochina.
And, even the election in 1970 of a Marxist president in Chile was
seen by some as a threat similar to that of Castro's takeover in Cuba.

The Committee regards the unfortunate events dealt with in this
Interim Report as an aberration, explainable at least in part, but
not justified, by the pressure of events at the time. The Committee
believes that it is still in the national interest of the United
States to do what it can to help nations resist Communist domination,
but it is clear that this cannot justify in the future the kind of
abuses covered in this report. Indeed, the Committee has resolved
that steps must be taken to prevent them from happening again.

NW 50955 DocId:32423539 Page 5

Agreed to by Drafting Subcommittee
on August 27, 1975*

I. INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY

This interim report covers allegations of United States involve-
ment in assassination plots against foreign political leaders. Of equal
significance in this report are certain other cases where foreign political
leaders in fact were killed, where the United States was in some manner
involved in activity leading up to the killing, but where it would be
incorrect to say that the purpose of United States involvement had been
to encourage assassination.

The evidence establishes that the United States was implicated in
several assassination plots. The Committee believes that the use of assassi-
nation as a tool of foreign policy is incompatible with American principles,
international order, and morality. It should be rejected.
Our inquiry also revealed serious problems with respect to United
States involvement in coups directed against foreign governments. Some of
these problems are addressed here on the basis of our investigation to date;
others we raise as questions to be answered after our investigation into
covert action has been completed.

We stress the interim nature of this report. In the course of
the Committee's continuing work, other alleged assassination plots may
surface, and new evidence concerning the cases covered herein may come to
light. However, it is the Committee's view that the cases covered herein
have been developed in sufficient detail to clarify the issues which are
at the heart of the Committee's mandate to recommend legislative and other
reforms relating to the vital matters discussed below.

* The Vice Chairman reserved as to the first sentence in the discussion
of the similarities and differences among the plots. (See p. )

HW 50955 DocId:32423539 Page 6

In depth treatment of the assassination question has lengthened
the Committee's schedule but has greatly increased the Committee's awareness
of the hard issues it must face in the months ahead. The Committee intends,
nevertheless, to complete, by February 1976, its main job of undertaking the
first comprehensive review of the intelligence community.

A. The Committee's Mandate

Under Senate Resolution 21, the Committee was instructed to in-
vestigate the full range of governmental intelligence activities and the
extent, if any, to which such activities were "illegal, improper or un-
ethical". In addition to that very broad general mandate, the Committee
was required by the Senate to investigate, study and make recommendations
concerning various specific matters, several of which relate to the assassi-
nation issue.*

Although the Rockefeller Commission conducted an inquiry into
reported assassination plots, the Commission declared it was unable, for
a variety of reasons, to complete its inquiry. At the direction of the Presi-
dent, the Executive Branch turned over to the Select Committee the work
the Commission had done, along with other documents relating to assassina-
tions.

* For example, S. Res. 21 requires the Committee to study and investi-
gate the following:

the extent and necessity of . . . covert intelligence activities
abroad";

"[the] nature and extent of executive branch oversight of all
United States intelligence activities";

"the need for improved, strengthened, or consolidated oversight
of United States intelligence activities by the Congress"; and

the need for new legislation.

HW 50955 DocId:32423539 Page 7

Committee Decision To Make This Report Public

This report raises important questions of national policy. We
believe that the public is entitled to know what certain instrumentalities
of their Government have done. Further, our recommendations can only be
judged in light of the factual record. Therefore, this interim report
should be made public.

Because of our faith in the democratic system, and the paramount
importance of strengthening the institutions of this country, the Committee
believes the truth about the assassination allegations should be told.
Democracy depends upon a well-informed electorate. Truth underlies both
justice and freedom.

We reject any contention that the facts disclosed herein should be
kept secret because they are embarrassing to the United States. Despite
the possible injury to our national reputation, the Committee believes that
foreign peoples will, upon sober reflection, respect the United States more
for keeping faith with its democratic ideal than they will condemn us for
the misconduct itself.

The fact that portions of the story have already been publicly dis-
closed only accentuates the need for full disclosure. Innuendo and mis-
leading partial disclosures are neither fair to the individuals involved,
nor a responsible way to lay the groundwork for informed public policy
judgments.

C. The Scope of the Committee's Investigation

The investigation of the assassination issue has been an unpleasant
duty, but one that the Select Committee had to meet. The Committee has
compiled a massive record in the months that the inquiry has been underway.

HW 50955 DocId:32423539 Page 8

The hearing record includes some pages of sworn testimony from
witnesses during hearing days as well as numerous staff interviews.

The documents which the Committee obtained included raw files from the
agencies and departments, from the White House, and from the Presidential
libraries of the Administrations of former Presidents Eisenhower, Kennedy
and Johnson.**

We obtained evidence of two general types: first, evidence
which related to the overall setting of events, the national policy of
the time, and descriptions of normal operating procedures including
channels of command and control; and second, evidence relating to specific
events.

A Senate Committee is not a court. It looks to the past, not to
determine guilt or innocence, but in order to make recommendations for the
future. Therefore, where we found the evidence to be ambiguous--as we did
on some issues--we have set out both sides, in order that the evidence may
speak for itself.

Despite the number of witnesses and documents examined by the
Committee, there were the following shortcomings in the evidence available
to us:

* The names of the witnesses are set forth in Appendix A.

** The Committee served both general and specific document requests upon
the Executive Branch and the Administration represented to the Committee that
it did not know of any additional relevant documents, except, of course, for
the possibility that the "Nixon papers" (which the Committee is attempting
to obtain) may contain material relevant to the allegations relating to Chile.

HW 50955 DocId:32423539 Page 9

Many of the events under consideration occurred as
long as fifteen years ago. With one exception, they
occurred during the administrations of Presidents now dead.
Other high officials, whose testimony might have
additional light upon the thorny issues of authorization
and control, are also dead. Moreover, with the passage
of time, the memories of those still alive have dimmed.
The Committee often faced the difficult task of dis-
tinguishing refreshed recollection from speculation. In
many instances, witnesses were unable to testify from in-
dependent recollection and had to rely on documents con-
temporaneous with the events to refresh their recollections.
While informed speculation is of some assistance, it can
only be assigned limited weight in judging specific events.
Assassination is not a subject on which one would
expect many records or documents to be made or retained.
In fact, there were more relevant contemporaneous documents
then we had expected, and the CIA in 1967 made internal
study of the Castro, Trujillo and Diem assassination allega-
tions. That study was quite useful, particularly in
suggesting leads for uncovering the story of the actual
Unfortunately, some material
assassination activity.
* Those studies were made at the direction of CIA Director Richard Helms
to provide him with information to respond to questions put to him by
President Johnson. The President's questions, as to Castro, were provoked
by a Drew Pearson newspaper column of March [6], 1967, which had alleged
CIA attempts on the life of Castro using the Mafia.
The President asked Helms at the same time to provide information
about Trujillo and Diem.
HW 50955 DocId:32423539 Page 10

relating to that investigation was destroyed upon its
completion.*
A final deficiency in the evidence stems from the
doctrine that CIA covert operations should be concealed
from the world and performed in such a way that if they
were discovered, the role of the United States could be
plausibly denied. As an extension of this doctrine of
"plausible deniability" communications between the Agency
and high Administration officials were often convoluted
and imprecise.**
The evidence contains sharp conflicts, Some of which relate to
basic facts. But the most important conflicts relate not so much to basic
facts as to differing perceptions and opinions based upon relatively undis-
puted facts.

With respect to both kinds of conflicts, the Committee has
attempted to set forth the evidence extensively so that it may speak for
itself. In the findings and conclusions section, we suggest resolutions
of some of the conflicts. Remembering that the Committee's main job is
to find lessons for the future, there are also occasions where we point
out that resolving conflicts in the evidence may be less important than
making certain that the system which produced the ambiguities is corrected.

* This was done pursuant to the instructions of CIA Director Richard
Helms (Helms Ex. 6/13/75 Tr. ). In fairness to Director Helms it
should be added, however, that he was responsible for requesting the
preparation of the I.G. Reports and for preserving them.

** For a full discussion of this doctrine see pages
HW 50955 DocId:32423539 Page 11

D. Summary of Findings and Conclusions

1. The Questions Presented

The Committee sought to answer four broad questions:

ASSASSINATION PLOTS. Did U.S. officials instigate,
attempt, aid and abet, or acquiesce in plots designed to
assassinate foreign leaders?

INVOLVEMENT IN OTHER KILLINGS. Did U.S. officials
assist foreign dissidents in a way which significantly con-
tributed to the killing of foreign leaders?

AUTHORIZATION. Where there was involvement by U.S.
officials in assassination plots or other killings, were such
activities ordered and if so, at what levels of our Government?

COMMUNICATION AND CONTROL. Even if not authorized,
were the assassination activities perceived to be within the
scope of agency authority, and was adequate control exercised
over its activities.

2. Summary of Findings and Conclusions on the Plots

The Seven Allegations. The Committee investigated alleged
U.S. involvement in assassination plots in five foreign countries.* They
were:

Country Individual Involved**
Cuba Fidel Castro
Congo (Zaire) Patrice Lumumba
* Insert Footnote on Sukarno and Duvalier.
** Insert re Raul and Che and Ngo Dinh Nhu.

HW 50955 DocId:32423539 Page 12

Country Individual Involved
Dominican Republic Rafael Trujillo
Chile General Rene Schneider
South Vietnam Ngo Dinh Diem

In summary, the evidence with respect to each allegation disclosed
the following.*

Fidel Castro (Cuba). United States Government personnel plotted
to kill Castro beginning in 1960. American underworld figures were used in
these plots as well as Cubans hostile to the Castro regime. One of the later
plots, which lasted until 1965, involved a Cuban dissident who was provided
encouragement and material support by the United States.

Patrice Lumumba (Congo/Zaire). In the Fall of 1960, two CIA
officials were asked by superiors to assassinate Lumumba. Poisons were
sent to the Congo and some exploratory steps were taken toward gaining
access to Lumumba. Subsequently, in early 1961, Lumumba was killed by
Congolese rivals. It does not appear from the evidence that the United
States was involved in the actual killing.

Rafael Trujillo (Dominican Republic). Trujillo was shot by
Dominican dissidents on May 31, 1961. Commencing in 1960 and continuing
to the time of the assassination, the U.S. Government generally supported
these dissidents and some Government personnel were aware that they intended
to kill Trujillo. Three pistols and three carbines were furnished by
American officials, although a request for machine guns was later refused.
There was conflicting evidence whether the weapons were knowingly supplied
for use in the assassination and whether any were present at the scene.

* See Section III for a detailed treatment of the evidence.

HW 50955 DocId:32423539 Page 13

General Rene Schneider (Chile). On October 25, 1970, General
Schneider died of gunshot wounds inflicted while resisting a kidnap attempt
three days earlier. Schneider, as Commander in Chief of the Army and a
constitutionalist opposed to military coups, was considered an obstacle to
efforts to prevent Salvador Allende from assuming the office of President
of Chile. The United States Government supported, and sought to instigate,
a military coup to block Allende. U.S. officials supplied financial aid,
machine guns and other equipment to various military figures who opposed
Allende. There was conflicting evidence on whether the United States had
previously severed relations with the group that kidnapped and killed
Schneider and on whether any of the equipment supplied was actually used
in the kidnapping.

Ngo Dinh Diem (South Vietnam). Diem and his brother, Nhu, were
killed on November 2, 1963, in the course of a South Vietnamese Generals'
coup. Although the United States Government supported the coup, there was
no evidence that American officials favored the assassination. Indeed, it
appeared that the assassination of Diem was not part of the Generals' pre-
coup planning but was instead a spontaneous act which occurred during the
coup and with which there was no American connection.

In addition to these five cases the Committee received evidence
that ranking government officials discussed, and may have authorized, the
establishment within the CIA of a generalized capability to assassinate.

Chairman
Vice Chairman Similarities and Differences Among the Plots. The plots all
reserved involved Third World countries, most of which were relatively small and
right to none of which possessed great political or military strength. Apart from
change to that similarity, there were significant differences among the plots. The
include con- following distinctions are pertinent:
text of Com-
munist sphere
of influence
within
Western Hemi-
sphere.

HW 50955 DocId:32423539 Page 14

-10-
(1) Whether United States officials initiated the plot or
whether they were responding to requests of local dissidents for aid.
(2) Whether the plot was specifically intended to kill a
foreign leader, or whether the leader's death was a reasonably
foreseeable consequence of an attempt to overthrow the govern-
ment.
The Castro case is an example of a plot conceived by United States
officials to kill a foreign leader. The Lumumba plot falls into the same
category.
In the case of Trujillo, although the U. S. Government certainly
opposed his regime, it did not initiate the plot. Rather, United States
officials responded to requests for aid from local dissidents whose aim
clearly was to assassinate Trujillo. By aiding them this country was im-
plicated, whether the specific weaponry actually supplied was meant to kill
Trujillo or was only intended as a symbol of U.S. support for the dissidents.

The Schneider case is different from that of both Castro and Tru-
jillo. The United States Government sought a coup and provided support to
local dissidents, knowing they believed that General Schneider was an obstacle
to their plans. However, even though the support included deadly weapons,
it appears that the intention of both the dissidents and the United States
officials was to abduct, not to kill, General Schneider. Similarly, in
the Diem case, United States officials did want a change in Government, but
there is no evidence that the United States sought the death of Diem himself.

3. Summary of Findings and Conclusions on the Issues of Authority
and Control.

To put the inquiry into assassination allegations in context, two

HW 50955 DocId:32423539 Page 15

-11-
points must be made clear. First, there is no doubt that the United States
Government opposed the various leaders in question. U.S. officials
at the highest levels objected to the Castro and Trujillo regimes, believed
the accession of Allende to power in Chile would be harmful to American in-
terests, and thought of Lumumba as a dangerous force in the heart of Africa.
Second, the evidence on assassinations has to be viewed in the context of other,
more massive activities directed against the regimes in question. For
example, the plots directed against Fidel Castro personally, cannot be under-
stood without considering the fully authorized, comprehensive, assaults upon
his regime, such as the Bay of Pigs invasion in 1961 and Operation Mongoose in
1962.

However, the issue of Governmental authorization of assassination
is of independent importance. There is a significant difference between a
coldblooded, targeted, intentional killing of an individual foreign leader and
other forms of intervention in the affairs of foreign nations. Therefore,
the Committee endeavored to explore as fully as possible the question of
how and why the plots happened, whether they were authorized, and if so, from
what level the authorization came.

We discovered a murky picture. It is not clear whether this is
due to the system of deniability and the consequent state of the evidence
which even after our long investigation remains conflicting and inconclusive,
or whether there were in fact serious shortcomings in the system of authori-
zation so that activities such as assassinations could have been undertaken by
an agency of the United States Government without express authority.

HW 50955 DocId:32423539 Page 16

-12-
Based upon the record of our investigation, the Committee's
single most important finding is that the system was such that assassina-
tion activity could have been undertaken by an agency of the United States
Government without it having been uncontrovertibly clear that there was
explicit authorization from the highest level.

Along with that paramount conclusion, the Committee makes four other
major findings.* The first relates to the lack of direct evidence of authori-
zation of the assassination plots by Presidents or other persons above the
Governmental agency or agencies involved. The second explains why certain
officials may have, nonetheless, perceived that, according to their judgment
and experience, assassination was an acceptable course of action. The third
criticizes agency officials for failing on several occasions to reveal their
plans and activities to superior authorities, or for failing to do so with
sufficient detail and clarity. The fourth criticizes Administration officials
for, on occasion, giving vague and indirect instructions to subordinates, and
for not making sufficiently clear that assassination should be excluded from
consideration.

There is admittedly a tension within the four findings. The first
and third points tend to suggest a lack of authority while the second and
fourth points explain why agency officials could nonetheless have perceived
that their actions were proper. This tension reflects a basic conflict in the
evidence. While there are some conflicts over facts, it is more important
that there may often have been two differing perceptions of the same facts.
This distinction may be the result of the differing backgrounds and ex-
perience of those persons experienced in covert operations as distinguished

* The Committee's findings are elaborated in Section
infra.

HW 50955 DocId:32423539 Page 17

-13-
from those who were not. Words of urgency which to the former may have meant
killing, to the latter may have meant nothing of the sort.

While we are critical of certain individual actions, the Committee
is mindful of the inherent problems in a system which relies upon secrecy,
compartmentation, circumlocution, and the avoidance of clear responsibility.
This sytem creates the risk of confusion and rashness in the very areas where
clarity and sober judgment are most necessary. Hence, before turning to an
extensive review of the evidence relating to the cases, we briefly deal with
the general subject of covert action during the relevant period.

HW 50955 DocId:32423539 Page 18

Agreed to by Drafting Subcommittee
on August 28, 1975

II. COVERT ACTION AS VEHICLE FOR FOREIGN POLICY IMPLEMENTATION

Simply stated, covert action may be defined as activity which sup-
ports the sponsoring nation's foreign policy objectives but is concealed
under circumstances permitting that nation to plausibly deny its actions.

The National Security Act of 1947 did not specifically include
authority for covert operations. However, it granted to the National
Security Council, then created as an instrument of the President, the
authority to direct the CIA to "perform such other functions and duties
related to intelligence affecting the national security as the National
Security Council may from time to time direct." Thereafter, at its
first meeting in December 1947, the National Security Council issued
a top secret directive granting the CIA the authority to conduct covert
operations. From 1955 to 1970, the basic authority for these operations
was National Security Council 5412/2.*

This directive framed the purposes of covert operations entirely
in terms of opposition to "International Communism,"** directing the CIA
to counter, reduce and discredit "International Communism" throughout the
world in a manner consistent with U. S. foreign and military policies.
It also directed the CIA to undertake covert operations to achieve this
end, and defined covert operations as any covert activities related to

* Today the basic authority for CIA covert action operations is National
Security Decision Memorandum 40, which superceded NSC 5412/2 on Feb-
ruary 17, 1970.

** By contrast, NSAM 40 of 1970 described covert actions as those secret
activities designed to further official U.S. programs and policies.
abroad. It made no reference to communism.

NW 50955 DocId:32423539 Page 19

propaganda, economic warfare, political action (including sabotage,
demolition and assistance to resistance movements) and all activities
compatible with the directive (emphasis supplied). In 1962, the CIA's
General Counsel rendered the opinion that the Agency's activities are
"not inhibited by any limitations other than those broadly set forth
in NSC 5412/2." (CIA General Counsel Memorandum 4/6/62)

POLICY DEVELOPMENT AND APPROVAL MECHANISM

The evidence dealt with in Part III is concerned with what actually
happened as far as obtaining, or not obtaining, authorization for the ac-
tivities under review by the Committee. With respect to what was meant
to happen in regard to covert action generally, the CIA's General Counsel
stated in 1962:
CIA must necessarily be responsible for planning. Oc-
casionally suggestions for action will come from out-
side sources but, to depend entirely on such require-
ments would be an evasion of the Agency's responsibili-
ties. Also, the average person, both in government and
outside, is thinking along normal lines and to develop
clandestine cold war activities properly, persons know-
ing both the capabilities and limitations of clandestine
action must be studying and devising how such actions
can be undertaken effectively.

With respect to policy approval, the General Counsel went on to say:

Both in developing ideas or plans for action it is in-
cumbent upon the Agency to obtain necessary policy ap-
proval, and for this purpose these matters should be
explored with proper officials in other departments
and agencies, particularly in the Departments of State
and Defense, so the determination can be made as to
whether any one proposal should go to the Special Group
or higher for policy determination.

The General Counsel's 1962 memorandum made it clear that the CIA
considered itself responsible for developing proposals and plans to

NW 50955 DocId:32423539 Page 20

implement the specific objectives of NSC 5412/2. At the same time, how-
ever, the memorandum stated that even in the development of ideas or plans
for action, it was incumbent upon the Agency not only to coordinate with
other executive departments and agencies, but also to "obtain necessary
policy approval" (emphasis added). The issue which faced the Committee,
of course, was whether such approval was, in fact, sought and obtained
for assassination plans, and whether CIA officials thought it was "neces-
sary" to obtain express approval for these activities.

Beginning in 1955, the responsibility for authorizing CIA covert
action operations rested in the Special Group, a sub-Cabinet level sub-
committee of the National Security Council composed of the President's
Assistant for National Security Affairs, the Director of Central In-
telligence, the Deputy Secretary of Defense and the Under Secretary of
State for Political Affairs. Today this group is known as the 40 Com-
mittee, and its membership now includes the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staffs. In addition, during 1962 another subcommittee of the NSC was
established to oversee covert operations relating to Cuba. It was known
as the Special Group (Augmented) and was composed of the members of the
Special Group, the Attorney General and certain other high officials.
The overriding purpose of the Special Group and its successors
has been to exercise control over covert operations abroad. The Special
Group was charged with the responsibility of considering the objectives
of any proposed activity, whether or not it would accomplish these aims.
how likely it would be to succeed, and in general whether or not it would
be "proper" and in the American interest. The Special Group Chairman
usually was responsible for determining which projects required Presi-
dential consideration, as well as keeping him abreast of progress or changes.

NW 50955 DocId:32423539 Page 21

The foregoing should not be taken to imply that the procedures
always have been clear and tidy, nor that they have always been fol-
lowed. Prior to 1955, formal procedures barely existed at all. In
1955 the Special Group procedures were made more formal. Neverthe-
less, the procedures that were followed during the period of 1959-63
were characterized by an internal CIA memorandum as "somewhat cloudy
and thus can probably be described as having been based on value judg-
ments by the DCI." (Memorandum for the Record, C/CA/PEG, "Policy Co-
ordination of CIA's Covert Action Operations," 21 February 1967)

In addition to the "somewhat cloudy" nature of the formal pro-
cedures themselves, there are other options available to any Chief Ex-
ecutive. The Committee recognizes that an agency charter to plan cov-
ert action could not preempt Presidential authority to develop and
mandate foreign policy. Similarly, it is equally clear that what may
be represented as the "desire" of a President is often communicated by
intermediary officials whose perceptions may or may not accurately
reflect the true Presidential purpose. Obviously, formal procedures
can be disregarded from above or below. In at least one case, for
example, a President instructed CIA officials not to consult with the
Special Group or other departments. In at least one other case, Agency
officials decided not to bring matters to the attention of the Special
Group. It should also be noted that all of the above procedures apply
to activities labeled "covert action" whereas some of the activities
considered in this report were treated as "counter-intelligence" actions.
Such actions are not normally subject to 40 Committee-type interdepart-
mental authorization and review.

NW 50955 DocId:32423539 Page 22

The Concept of "Plausible Deniability"

Non-attribution for U. S. Government covert operations was the
original and principal purpose of the so-called doctrine of plausible
denial.

Evidence before the Committee clearly demonstrates that this con-
cept, designed to protect the U. S. and its operatives from the conse-
quences of disclosures, has been significantly expanded to: (1) mask
not only Presidential decisions but those of his senior staffers; (2)
support less than complete advice to such persons regarding these op-
erations.

The quest for "plausible denial" has shaped the processes of the
U. S. Government for approving and evaluating covert actions. The 40
Committee and its predecessors can serve as "circuit breakers" for a
President, placing the locus of consideration of covert action at sev-
eral removes from the Oval office. One consequence of the doctrine of
plausible denial is an incomplete documentary record.

The quest for "plausible denial" has also led to the use of cer-
tain techniques, including euphemism and circumlocution. These tech-
niques have had as their purpose the objective of allowing the Presi-
dent and other senior officials to deny knowledge of an operation should
it be disclosed. In addition, the use of indirect reference to inform
a President could be reversed--a President could communicate his desire
to see a highly sensitive operation undertaken in a similar indirect,
circumlocutious manner. Whether, at times circumlocution had the affect
of failing to let Presidents or other officials accurately understand
what was being said, was a question faced by the Committee.

NW 50955 DocId:32423539 Page 23

"Plausible deniability" raises a number of other issues which the
Committee has had to confront. Differing interpretations of the practice
of plausible denial has affected the extent to which sensitive matters
were raised or considered. The evidence discussed below revealed that
very serious problems of assessing and insuring accountability and con-
trol can arise out of plausible deniability.

NW 50955 DocId:32423539 Page 24

TOP SECRET
Approved by Drafting
Subcommittee 9/5/75
III. CUBA
(A) Introduction
We have divided the facts with respect to Cuba into three
broad sections.
The first discusses the plots against Fidel Castro's life
without attempting to confront the question of authorization.
The second deals with the evidence concerning whether or not
the successive Directors of Central Intelligence, Allen Dulles and John
McCone, authorized or were aware of the various plots. (Although we have
organizationally divided the evidence relating to the DCI's from the
proof relating to other high administration officials, it is important
to remember that the Director of Central Intelligence is the principal
advisor to the President on intelligence matters, a member of major
administrative policy-making councils as well as head of the Central
Intelligence Agency.)
The third section covers the evidence concerning whether or
not other high officials--including the various Presidents--authorized
or knew about the plots. This section also considers the evidence relating
to whether or not the CIA officials who were involved with the plots believed
them to be consistent with the general policy objectives of the various
administrations even if they had no personal knowledge as to whether the
plots were or were not specifically authorized by higher authority.
NW 50955 DocId:32423539 Page 25

TOP SECRET
1. The

--- Continued from previous chunk ---

-25-

that "it never occurred to me" that the vigorous words of the Attorney General could be taken as authorizing assassination. The differing perceptions may have resulted from their different backgrounds and training. Neither Bissell (an academician whose Agency career for the six years before he became DDP had been in the field of technology) nor McManus (who had concentrated on intelligence and staff work) were experienced in covert operations.*

The perception of certain Agency officials that assassination was within the range of permissible activity was reinforced by the continuing approval of violent covert actions against Cuba that were sanctioned at the Presidential level and by the failure of the successive administrations to make clear that assassination was not permissible. This point is one of the subjects considered in the next section.

* Of course, this analysis cannot be carried too far. In the Lumumba case, for example, Johnson and Dillon, who were Administration officials with no covert operation experience, construed remarks as urging or permitting assassination, while other persons who were not in the Agency did not so interpret them.

HW 50955 DocId: 32423539 Page 535

-26-

4. The Failure In Communication Between Agency Officials in Charge Of The Assassination Operations And Their Superiors In The Agency And In The Administration Was Due To:

(a) The Failure of Subordinates To Disclose The Operations To Their Superiors; and

(b) The Failure of Superiors to Give Precise Orders Regarding the Nature of Permissable Operations and to Make Clear That Assassination Was Precluded in the Climate of Violence Engendered by the Aggressive Covert Actions Sanctioned by the Administrations.

While we cannot find that officials responsible for making policy decisions knew about or authorized the assassination attempts (with the possible exception of the Lumumba case), Agency operatives at least through the level of DDP nevertheless perceived assassination to have been permissible. This failure in communication was inexcusable in light of the gravity of assassination. The Committee finds that the failure of Agency officials to inform their superiors was reprehensible, and that the reasons that they offered for having neglected to inform their superiors are unacceptable. The Committee further finds that Administration officials failed to be sufficiently precise in their directions to the Agency and that their attitude toward the possibility of assassination was ambiguous in the context of the violence of other activities that they did authorize.

HW 50955 DocId: 32423539 Page 536

-27-

(a) Agency Officials Failed On Several Occasions To Reveal The Plots To Their Superiors, Or To Do So With Sufficient Detail and Clarity

Several of the cases considered in this report raise questions concerning whether officials of the CIA sufficiently informed their superiors in the Agency or officials outside the Agency about their activities.

Castro

The failure of Agency officials to inform their superiors of the assassination efforts against Castro is particularly troubling.

Richard Bissell testified that he and Sheffield Edwards told Allen Dulles only "circumlocutiously" and only after the project had begun about the operation which used members of the underworld. Both Bissell and his successor as DDP, Richard Helms, testified that they never discussed the operation with John McCone or any officials outside the CIA. The two officials directly responsible for the operation--Edwards and William Harvey--testified that they never discussed the operation with McCone or any Government official above the level of DDP. McCone testified that he was never consulted about the operation, and that Dulles never briefed him on its existence. On the basis of the testimony and documentary evidence before the Committee, it is uncertain whether Dulles

HW 50955 DocId: 32423539 Page 537

-28-

was ever made aware of the true nature of the underworld operation, and virtually certain that it continued into McCone's term without his or the Administration's knowledge or approval.

On the occasions when Richard Bissell had the opportunity to inform his superiors about the assassination effort against Castro, he either failed to inform them or misled them.

Bissell testified that he and Edwards told Dulles and Cabell about the assassination operation using underworld figures, but that they did so "circumlocutiously", and then only after contact had been made with the underworld and a price had been offered for Castro's death.

Bissell further testified that he never raised the issue of assassination with officials of either the Eisenhower or Kennedy Administration. His reason was that since he was under Dulles in the chain of command, he would normally have had no duty to discuss the matter with the Presidents or other Administration officials, and that he assumed that Dulles would have circumlocutiously spoken with Presidents Eisenhower and Kennedy about the operation. These reasons are insufficient. It was inexcusable to withhold such information from those responsible for formulating policy on the unverified assumption that they might have been circumlocutiously informed by Dulles, who

HW 50955 DocId:32423539 Page 538

-29-

himself had not been straight-forwardly told about the operation.* The failure to either inform those officials or to make certain that they had been informed by Dulles was particularly reprehensible in light of the fact that there were many occasions on which Bissell should have informed them, and his failure to do so was misleading. In the first weeks of the Kennedy Administration, Bissell met with Bundy and discussed the development of an assassination capability within CIA--executive action. But Bissell did not mention that an actual assassination attempt was underway. Bissell appeared before the Taylor-Kennedy Board of Inquiry which was formed to report to the President on the Bay of Pigs and the Cuban situation, but testified that he did not inform the Commission of the assassination operation. As chief of the CIA directorate concerned with clandestine operations and the Bay of Pigs, Bissell frequently met with officials in the Eisenhower and Kennedy Administrations to discuss Cuban operations, and his advice was frequently sought. He did not tell them that the CIA had undertaken an effort to assassinate Castro, and did not ask if they favored proceeding with the

* Even assuming that Bissell correctly perceived that Dulles understood the nature of the operation, it was inexcusable for Bissell not to have briefed Dulles in plain language. Further, even if one accepts Bissell's assumption that Dulles told the Presidents, they would have been told too late, because Bissell "guessed" they would have been told that the operation "had been planned and was being attempted".

HW 50955 DocId:32423539 Page 539

-30-

effort. He was present at the meeting with Dulles and President Kennedy at which the new President was briefed on covert action in Cuba, but neither Dulles nor Bissell mentioned the assassination operation that was underway.

The failures to make forthright disclosures to policymakers continued during the time that Richard Helms was DDP. Helms' failure to inform McCone about the underworld operation when it was reactivated under Harvey and poison pills were sent to Cuba was a grave error in judgment, and Helms' excuses are unpersuasive. In May of 1962, the Attorney General was told that the CIA's involvement in an assassination plot had terminated with the Bay of Pigs. Not only did Edwards, who had briefed the Attorney General, know that the operation had not been terminated, but Helms did not inform the Attorney General that the operation was still active when he learned that the Attorney General had been misled. Helms did not inform McCone of the plot until August 1962, and did so then in a manner which indicated that the plot had been terminated before McCone became Director. Helms' denial that AM/LASH had been involved in an assassination attempt in response to Secretary of State Rusk's inquiries was, as Helms testified, "not truthful".

When Helms briefed President Johnson on the Castro plots, he apparently described the activities that had occurred during prior administrations but did not describe the AM/LASH opera-

HW 50955 DocId: 32423539 Page 540

-31-

tion which had continued until 1965. Helms also failed to inform the Warren Commission of the plots because the precise question was not asked.

Helms told the Committee that he had never raised the assassination operation with McCone or Kennedy Administration officials because he had assumed that the project had been previously authorized, and that the aggressive character of the Kennedy Administration’s program against the Castro regime made assassination permissible even in the absence of an express instruction. He added that he had never been convinced that the operation would succeed, and that he would have told McCone about it if he had ever believed that it would "go anyplace".

Helms' reasons for not having told his superiors about the assassination effort are unacceptable; indeed, many of them were reasons why he should have sought express authority. As Helms himself testified, assassination was of a high order of sensitivity. Administration policymakers, supported by intelligence estimates furnished by the Agency, had emphasized on several occasions that successors to Castro might be worse than Castro himself. In addition, the Special Group Augmented required that plans for covert actions against Cuba be submitted in detail for its approval. Although the Administration was exerting intense pressure on the CIA to do something about Castro and the Castro regime, it was a serious error to have

HW 50955 DocId: 32423539 Page 541

-32-

undertaken so drastic an operation without obtaining full and equivocal permission.

William Harvey, the officer in charge of the CIA's attempt using underworld figures to assassinate Castro, testified that he never discussed the plot with McCone or officials of the Kennedy Administration because he believed that it had been fully authorized by the previous Director, because he was uncertain whether it had a chance of succeeding, and because he believed that it was Helms', not his, duty to inform higher authorities.

Nonetheless, the Committee believes there were occasions on which it was incumbent on Harvey to have disclosed the assassination operation. As head of Task Force W, the branch of the CIA responsible for covert operations in Cuba, Harvey reported directly to General Lansdale and the Special Group Augmented. The Special Group Augmented had made known that covert operations in Cuba should be first approved by it, both by explicit instruction and by its practice that particular operations be submitted in "nauseating detail". Yet Harvey

HW 50955 DocId:32423539 Page 542

-33-

did not inform either General Lansdale or the Special Group Augmented of the assassination operation, either when he was explicitly requested to report to McCone, General Taylor, and the Special Group on his activities in Miami in April 1962, or when the subject of assassination was raised in the August 1962 meeting and McCone voiced his disapproval.

The Committee finds that the reasons advanced for not having informed those responsible for formulating policy about the assassination operation were inadequate, misleading, and inconsistent. Some officials viewed assassination as too important and sensitive to discuss with superiors, while others considered it not sufficiently important. Harvey testified that it was premature to tell McCone about the underworld operation in April 1962, because it was not sufficiently advanced, but too late to tell him about it in August 1962, since by that time he had decided to terminate it. On other occasions, officials thought disclosure was someone else's responsibility; Bissell said he thought it was up to Dulles, Harvey believed it was up to Helms, but Helms remarked that Harvey "kept Phase II pretty much in his back pocket".

HW 50955 DocId:32423539 Page 543

-34-

The Committee concludes that the failure clearly to inform policymakers of the assassination effort against Castro was grossly improper. The Committee believes that it should be incumbent upon the DDP to report such a sensitive operation to his superior, the DCI, no matter how grave his doubts might be about the possible outcome of the operation. It follows that the DCI has the same duty to accurately inform his superiors.

Trujillo

In the Trujillo case there were several instances in which it appears that policymakers were not given sufficient information, or were not informed in a timely fashion.

At a meeting on December 29, 1960, Bissell presented a plan to the Special Group for supporting Dominican exile groups and local dissidents, and stated that the plan would not bring down the regime without "some decisive stroke against Trujillo himself". At a meeting on January 12, 1961, the Special Group authorized the passage of "limited supplies of small arms and other material" to Dominican dissidents under certain conditions. At this time, the fact that the dissidents had been contemplating the assassination of Trujillo had been known in the State Department at the level of the Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs, and by senior officials of the CIA, including the DCI.

Yet the memorandum supplied to Under Secretary Merchant, which

HW 50955 DocId: 32423539 Page 544

-35-

was said to have been the basis upon which the Special Group agreed to the "limited supply" of small arms, did not mention assassination. To the contrary, it spoke of "sabotage potential" and stated that there "would be no thought of toppling the [government] by any such minor measure [as the supplying of small arms]."

On February 17, 1961, Richard Bissell sent a memorandum on the Dominican Republic to McGeorge Bundy. Bissell knew that the dissidents planned to assassinate Trujillo, but his memorandum did not mention assassination. It indicated that the dissidents' "plan of action" included arms for 300 men. Those involved agreed that support of this nature suggested a non-targeted paramilitary plan, not an assassination.

The passage of the carbines was approved by CIA headquarters on March 31, 1961. The State Department was apparently unaware of this passage for several weeks. The pouching of the machine guns was not disclosed outside the CIA.

The State Department official from whom the CIA sought permission to pass the machine guns stated that on "cross examination" the CIA official conceded that the purpose was assassination. The CIA official then agreed the United States should have nothing to do with assassination plots "anywhere, anytime", even though the previous day he and Bissell had signed a draft cable permitting the passage of the machine guns for use in connection with a planned assassination.

HW 50955 DocId: 32423539 Page 545

-36-

Schneider

The issue here is not whether the objectives of the CIA were contrary to those of the Administration. It is clear that President Nixon desired to prevent Allende from assuming office, even if that required fomenting and supporting a coup in Chile. Nor did White House officials suggest that tactics employed (including as a first step to kidnapping General Schneider) would have been unacceptable as a matter of principle. Rather, the issue posed is whether White House officials were consulted, and thus given an opportunity to weigh such matters as risk and likelihood of success, and to apply policy-making judgments to particular tactics. The record indicates that up to October 15 they were; after October 15 there is some doubt.

The documentary record with respect to the disputed post-October 15 period gives rise to conflicting inferences. On the one hand, Karamessines' calendar shows existence of at least one White House contact in the critical period prior to the kidnapping of General Schneider on October 22. However, the absence of any substantive memoranda in CIA files--when contrasted with several such memoranda describing contacts with the White House between September 15 and October 15--may suggest a lack of significant communication on the part of the CIA as well as a lack of careful supervision on the part of the White House.

HW 50955 DocId: 32423539 Page 546

-37-

The standards applied within the CIA itself suggest a view that action which the Committee believes called for top-level policy discussion and decision was thought of as permissible, without any further consultation, on the basis of the initial instruction to prevent Allende from assuming power. Machine guns were sent to Chile and delivered to military figures there on the authority of junior CIA officers without consultation even with the CIA officer in charge of the program. We find no suggestion of bad faith in the action of the junior officers. But it necessarily establishes that there was no advance permission from outside the CIA for the passage of machine guns. And it also suggests an attitude within the CIA toward consultation which was unduly lax. Further, this case demonstrated the problems inherent in giving an agency a "blank check" to engage in covert operations without specifying which actions are and are not permissible, and without adequately supervising and monitoring these activities once begun.

(b) On Occasion, Administration Officials Gave Vague Instructions to Subordinates and Failed to Make Sufficiently Clear That Assassination Should Be Excluded From Consideration.

While we cannot find that high Administration officials expressly approved of the assassination attempts, we have noted that certain agency officials nevertheless perceived

HW 50955 DocId: 32423539 Page 547

-38-

assassination to have been authorized. Although those officials were remiss in not seeking express authorization for their activities, their superiors were also at fault for giving vague instructions and for not explicitly ruling out assassination. No written order prohibiting assassination was issued until 1972, and that order was an internal CIA directive issued by Director Helms.

Schneider

As explained above, there is no evidence that assassination was ever proposed as a method of carrying out the Presidential order to prevent Allende from assuming office. The Committee believes, however, that the granting of carte blanche authority to the CIA by the Executive in this case may have contributed to the tragic and unintended death of General Schneider. This was also partially due to imposing an impractical task to be accomplished within an unreasonably short time. Apart from the question of whether any intervention was justified under the circumstances of this case, the committee believes that the Executive in any event should have defined the limits of permissible action.

Lumumba

We are unable to make a finding that President Eisenhower intentionally authorized an assassination effort against Lumumba because of the lack of absolute certainty in the evidence. However, it appears that the

HW 50955 DocId: 32423539 Page 548

-39-

strong language used in discussions at the Special Group and NSC, as reflected in minutes of relevant meetings, led Dulles to believe that assassination was desired. The minutes contain language concerning the need to "dispose of" Lumumba, an "extremely strong feeling about the necessity for straight forward action", and a refusal to rule out any activity that might contribute to "getting rid of" Lumumba.

Castro

The effort to assassinate Fidel Castro took place in an atmosphere of extreme pressure by Eisenhower and Kennedy Administration officials to discredit and overthrow the Castro regime. Richard Helms recalled that:

“I remember vividly [that the pressure] was very intense. And therefore, when you go into the record, you find a lot of nutty schemes there and those nutty schemes were borne of the intensity of the pressure. And we were quite frustrated."

Bissell recalled that:

“During that entire period, the administration was extremely sensitive about the defeat that had been afflicted, as they felt, on the U.S. at the Bay of Pigs, and were pursuing every possible means of getting rid of Castro."

Another witness, Samuel Halpern, stated that sometime in the Fall of 1961 Bissell was

“chewed out in the Cabinet Room in the White House by both the President and the Attorney General for, as he put it, sitting on his ass and not doing anything about getting rid of Castro and the Castro Regime."

General Lansdale informed the agencies cooperating in Operation

HW 50955 DocId: 32423539 Page 549

-40-

Mongoose that "you're in a combat situation where we have been given full command". Secretary of Defense McNamara confirmed that "we were hysterical about Castro at the time of the Bay of Pigs and thereafter".

Many of the plans that were discussed and often approved contemplated violent action against Cuba. The operation which resulted in the Bay of Pigs was a major paramilitary onslaught that had the approval of the highest government officials, including the two Presidents. Thereafter, Attorney General Kennedy vehemently exhorted the Special Group Augmented that "a solution to the Cuban problem today carried top priority - . . no time, money, effort--or manpower is to be spared."* Subsequently, Operation Mongoose involved propaganda and sabotage operations aimed toward spurring a revolt of the Cuban people against Castro. Measures that were considered by the top policymakers included incapacitating sugar workers during harvest season by the use of chemicals; blowing up bridges and production plants; sabotaging merchandise in third countries--even those allied with the United States--prior to its delivery to Cuba; and arming insurgents on the island. Programs undertaken at the urging

* The Attorney General himself took a personal interest in the recruitment and development of assets within Cuba, on occasion recommending Cubans to the CIA as possible recruits and meeting in Washington and Florida with Cuban exiles active in the covert war against the Castro government.

HW 50955 DocId:32423539 Page 550

-41-

of the Administration included intensive efforts to recruit and arm dissidents within Cuba and raids on plants, mines, and harbors.

Discussions at the Special Group and NSC meetings might well have contributed to the perception of some CIA officials that assassination was a permissible tool in the effort to overthrow the Castro regime. At a Special Group meeting in November 1960, Under Secretary Merchant inquired whether any planning had been undertaken for "direct, positive action" against Che Guevarra, Raul and Fidel Castro. Cabell replied that such a capability did not exist, but might well have left the meeting with the impression that assassination was not out of bounds. One phase of Lansdale's plans, which was submitted to the Special Group in January 1962, aimed at inducing "open revolt and overthrow of the Communist regime", and included in the final phase an "attack on the cadre of the regime, including key leaders". The proposal stated that "this should be a 'Special Target' operation Gangster elements might provide the best recruitment potential against police. Several minutes from Special Group meetings contain language such as “possible removal of Castro from the Cuban scene". Although Lansdale's proposal was shelved, the type of aggressive action contemplated was not ruled out.

On several occasions, the subject of assassination was

HW 50955 DocId: 32423539 Page 551

-42-

discussed in the presence of senior Administration officials. While those officials never consented to actual assassination efforts, they also failed to indicate that assassination was impermissible as a matter of principle.

In early 1961, McGeorge Bundy was informed of a CIA project described as the development of a capability to assassinate.* Bundy raised no objection and, according to Bissell, may have been more affirmative. Although Bissell stated that he did not infer authorization from Bundy's remarks for the underworld plot against Castro that was then underway, the fact that he believed that the development of an assassination capability had been approved by the White House (which he subsequently told to Harvey) may well have contributed to the general perception that assassination was not prohibited.

Documents indicate that in May 1962, Attorney General Kennedy was told that the CIA had sought to assassinate Castro prior to the Bay of Pigs. According to the CIA officials present at the briefing, the Attorney General

* Bundy, who was National Security Advisor to the President, had an obligation to tell the President of such a grave matter, even though it was only a discussion of a capability to assassinate. His failure to do so was a serious error.

HW 50955 DocId: 32423539 Page 552

-43-

indicated his displeasure about the lack of consultation on the impropriety of the attempt itself.* There is no evidence that the Attorney General told the CIA that it must not engage in assassination plots.

At a meeting of the Special Group Augmented in August 1962, well after the assassination efforts were underway, Robert McNamara is said to have raised the question of whether the assassination of Cuban leaders should be explored, and General Lansdale issued an action memorandum assigning the CIA the task of preparing contingency plans for the assassination of Cuban leaders. While McCone testified that he had immediately made it clear that assassination was not to be discussed or condoned, Harvey's testimony and documents which he wrote after the event indicate that Harvey may have been confused over whether McCone had objected to the use of assassination, or whether he was only concerned that the subject not be put in writing. In any

* Documents show that the Attorney General, Robert Kennedy, learned in May of 1961 that the CIA had used underworld figures in an operation against Cuba. The documentary record further reflects that the Attorney General was not told that the operation had involved assassination efforts until May of 1962, and that the operation was then described to him as having been terminated in May 1961. There is no evidence that the Attorney General suspected the true nature of the operation until that briefing, or that he learned that it had not in fact been terminated. While it is curious that the Attorney General would not have inquired further into the nature of the operation when he discovered that Sam Giancana had been involved in it, there is no evidence that he did.

HW 50955 DocId:32423539 Page 553

-44-

event, McCone went no further. He issued no general order banning consideration of assassination within the Agency.

One of the programs forwarded to General Lansdale by the Defense Department in the Mongoose program was entitled "Operation Bounty" and envisioned dropping leaflets in Cuba offering rewards for the assassination of Government leaders. Although the plan was vetoed by Lansdale, it indicates that persons in agencies other than the CIA perceived that assassination might be permissible.

While the ambivalence of Administration officials does not excuse the misleading conduct by Agency officials or justify their failure to seek explicit permission, it displayed an insufficient concern about assassination which may have contributed to the perception that assassination was an acceptable tactic in accomplishing the Government's general objectives.

With the exception of the tight guidelines issued by the Special Group Augmented concerning Operation Mongoose, precise limitations were never imposed on the CIA requiring prior permission for the details of other proposed covert operations against Cuba. No general policy banning assassination was promulgated until Helms' intra-agency order in 1972. In light of the number of times in which the subject of assassination arose, Administration officials were remiss in not explicitly forbidding such activity.

HW 50955 DocId: 32423539 Page 554

-45-

The Committee notes that many of the occasions on which CIA officials should have informed their superiors of the assassination efforts but failed to do so, or did so in a misleading manner, were also occasions on which Administration officials paradoxically may have reinforced the perception that assassination was permissible.

For example, when Bissell spoke with Bundy about an executive action capability, Bissell failed to indicate that an actual assassination operation was underway, but Bundy failed to rule out assassination as a tactic.

In May of 1962 the Attorney General was misleadingly told about the effort to assassinate Castro prior to the Bay of Pigs, but not about the operation that was then going on. The Attorney General, however, did not state that assassination was improper.

When a senior administration official raised the question of whether assassination should be explored at a Special Group meeting, the assassination operation should have been revealed, but a firm written order against engaging in assassination should also have been issued by McCone if, as he testified, he had exhibited strong aversion to assassination.

HW 50955 DocId: 32423539 Page 555

-46-

6. Practices Current at the Time in Which the Assassination Plots Occurred Were Revealed by the Record to Create the Risk of Confusion, Rashness, and Irresponsibility in the Very Areas Where Clarity and Sober Judgment Was Most Necessary.

Various witnesses described elements of the system within which the assassination plots were conceived. The Committee is disturbed by the custom that permitted the most sensitive matters to be presented to the highest levels of Government with the least clarity. We find this disturbing, and view the following concepts as particularly dangerous:

(1) The extension of the doctrine of "plausible denial" beyond its intended purpose of hiding the involvement of the United States from other countries to an effort to shield higher officials from knowledge, and hence, responsibility for certain operations.

(2) The use of circumlocution or euphemism to describe serious matters--such as assassination--when precise meanings ought to be made clear.

(3) The theory that general approval of broad covert action programs is sufficient to justify specific actions such as assassination or the passage of weapons.

HW 50955 DocId: 32423539 Page 556

-47-

(4) The theory that authority granted, or assumed to be granted, by one director or one administration could be presumed to continue without the necessity for reaffirming the authority with successor officials.

(5) The creation of capabilities without careful review and authorization by policymakers, and the risk that such capabilities might be used without further authorization.

(a) The Danger Inherent in Overextending the Doctrine of Plausible Denial

The original concept of plausible denial envisioned implementing covert actions in a manner calculated to conceal American involvement if the actions were exposed. The doctrine was at times a delusion and at times a snare. It was naive for policymakers to assume that sponsorship of actions as big as the Bay of Pigs invasion could be concealed. The Committee's inquiry into assassination and the public disclosures which preceded it demonstrate that when the United States resorted to cloak and dagger tactics, its hand was ultimately exposed. In addition, the likelihood of reckless action is substantially increased when policymakers believe that their decisions will never be revealed.

Whatever can be said in defense of the original purpose of plausible denial--a purpose which intends to conceal U.S. involvement from the outside world--the extension of

HW 50955 DocId: 32423539 Page 557

-48-

the doctrine to the internal decision-making process of the Government is absurd. Any theory which, as a matter of doctrine, places elected officials on the periphery of the decision-making process is an invitation to error, an abdication of responsibility, and a perversion of democratic government.

(b) The Dangers of Using "Circumlocution" and "Euphemism"

According to Richard Bissell, the extension of plausible denial to internal decisionmaking required the use of circumlocution and euphemism in speaking with Presidents and other senior officials.

Explaining this concept only heightens its absurdity. On the one hand, it assumes that senior officials should be shielded from the truth to enable them to deny knowledge if the truth comes out. On the other hand, the concept assumes that senior officials must be told enough, by way of double talk, to grasp the subject. As a consequence, the theory fails to accomplish its objective and only increases the risk of misunderstanding. Subordinate officials should describe their proposals in clear, precise, and brutally frank language; busy superiors are entitled to and should demand no less.

Euphemism may actually have been preferred--not because

HW 50955 DocId: 32423539 Page 558

-49-

of plausible denial--but because the persons involved could not bring themselves to state in plain language what they intended to do and may have, in some instances, assumed, rightly or wrongly, that the listening superiors did not want the issue squarely placed before them. Assassinate, murder and kill are words many people do not want to speak or hear. They describe acts which should not even be proposed, let alone plotted. Failing to call dirty business by its rightful name may have increased the risk of dirty business being done.

(c) The Danger of Generalized Instructions.

Permitting specific acts to be taken on the basis of general approvals of broad strategies (e.g., keep Allende from assuming office, get rid of the Castro regime) blurs responsibility and accountability. Worse still, it increases the danger that subordinates may take steps which would have been disapproved if the policymakers had been informed. A further danger is that policymakers might intentionally use loose general instructions to evade responsibility for embarrassing activities.

In either event, we find that the gap between the general policy objectives and the specific actions undertaken to achieve them was far too wide.

It is important that policymakers review the manner in

HW 50955 DocId:32423539 Page 559

-50-

which their directives are implemented, particularly when the activities are sensitive, secret, and immune from public scrutiny.

(d) The Danger of "Floating Authorization"

One justification advanced by Richard Helms and William Harvey for not informing John McCone about the use of underworld figures to assassinate Fidel Castro was their assertion that the project had already been approved by McCone's predecessor, Allen Dulles, and that further authorization was unnecessary, at least until the operation had reached a more advanced stage.

Similarly, most of the actions taken in the Trujillo case during the early months of the Kennedy Administration were authorized by the Special Group on January 12, 1961, at the end of the Eisenhower Administration.

The idea that authority might continue from one administration or director to the next and that there is no duty to reaffirm authority with successors inhibits responsible decisionmaking. Circumstances may change or judgments differ. New officials should be given the opportunity to review significant programs.

(e) The Problems Connected with Creating New Covert Capabilities

The development of a new capability raises numerous problems. Having a capability to engage in certain covert

HW 50955 DocId:32423539 Page 560

-51-

activity increases the probability that it will occur, since the capability represents a tool that is available for use. There is the further danger that authorizing a capability may be misunderstood as authorizing its use without need for obtaining explicit authorization.

Of course, an assassination capability should never have been created in the first place.

HW 50955 DocId:32423539 Page 561

V. RECOMMENDATIONS

Approved by Drafting Subcommittee 10/8/75 (with possible reservation as to language of statute)

During our long investigation of assassination, a number of vital issues came into sharp focus.

Above all, stood the question of assassination. Our recommendations on other issues should await the completion of our continuing investigations and our final report. But we need no more information to convince us that a flat ban against assassination should be written into law.

We condemn assassination and reject it as an instrument of American policy. Surprisingly, at present there is no statute making it a crime to assassinate a foreign official outside the United States. Hence, for the reasons set forth below, the Committee recommends the prompt enactment of a statute making it a Federal crime to commit or attempt an assassination, or to conspire to do so.

A. General agreement that the United States must not engage in assassination. Our view that assassination has no place in America's arsenal is shared by the Administration.

President Ford, in the same statement in which he asked this Committee to deal with the assassination issue, stated:

I am opposed to political assassination. This administration has not and will not use such means as instruments of national policy. Presidential Press Conference, June 9, 1975, Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents, Vol. II, No. 24, p. 611.

The witnesses we examined uniformly condemned assassination. They denounced it as immoral, described it as impractical, and reminded us that an open society, most of all, runs the risk of the assassination of its own leaders. As President Kennedy was reported to have said: "we can't get into that kind of thing, or we would all be targets." (Goodwin 7/18/75, p. 4)

The current CIA Director and his two predecessors testified emphatically that assassination should be banned. Thus, Colby said:

HW 50955 DocId: 32423539 Page 562

-2-

With respect to assassination, my position is clear. I just think it is wrong. And I have said so and made it very clear to my subordinates. (5/21/75, p. 89)

Colby's predecessor, Helms, although himself involved in an earlier plot, said he had concluded assassination should be ruled out for both moral and practical reasons:

As a result of my experiences through the years, when I became Director I had made up my mind that this option...of killing foreign leaders, was something that I did not want to happen on my watch. My reasons for this were these:

There are not only moral reasons but there are also some other rather practical reasons.

It is almost impossible in a democracy to keep anything like that secret.... Somebody would go to a Congressman, his Senator, he might go to a newspaper man, whatever the case may be, but it just is not a practical alternative, it seems to me, in our society.

Then there is another consideration...if you are going to try by this kind of means to remove a foreign leader, then who is going to take his place running that country, and are you essentially better off as a matter of practice when it is over than you were before? And I can give you I think a very solid example of this which happened in Vietnam when President Diem was eliminated from the scene. We then had a revolving door of prime ministers after that for quite some period of tiem, during which the Vietnamese Government at a time in its history when it should have been strong was nothing but a caretaker government.... In other words, that whole exercise turned out to the disadvantage of the United States.

...there is no sense in my sitting here with all the experience I have had and not sharing with the Committee my feelings this day. It isn't because I have lost my cool, or because I have lost my guts, it