176-10036-10058
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER: 176-10036-10058
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:
ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO: Director, CIA
TITLE: Activities of Cuban Trained Peruvian Guerrillas
DATE: 4/11/1963
PAGES: 5
SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION:
RESTRICTIONS:
CURRENT STATUS:
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 51: Cuba, Subjects intelligence material
6/63-7/63. Box 1

Sanitized
NLK-01-051-7-4-5
SECRET
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
EYES ONLY
11 April 1963
MEMORANDUM FOR: The Director of Central Intelligence
SUBJECT: Activities of Cuban-Trained Peruvian Guerrillas

The information in this memorandum comes from an extremely sensitive source who is currently a member of a group of Cuban-trained Peruvian guerrillas. No other dissemination has been made of the reports he has provided, in order to protect him and to insure that this channel is kept open to him. The information is being forwarded in this restricted manner at this time to furnish an insight into the extent of Cuban efforts to assist Latin American revolutionary movements.

The Agency directed asset is working inside a network now assisting Cuban-trained Latin Americans to re-enter their countries illegally, and to join with leftist revolutionaries to overthrow the established governments.

The Agency asset was a member of a group of more than 70 Peruvians trained in Cuba from June until December 1962. His contingent traveled in groups by way of Mexico. He received his first training in Habana. In July he was appointed to stay behind in Mexico as a clandestine contact with a Cuban Embassy. The Cubans gave him special instructions and funds, and he ostensibly remained in Cuba only to assist other groups which themselves did not know of his special assignment.

Our agent, some of the members of whom were to be given training sites in Habana, were later moved to rural hill areas where they were given political indoctrination and weapons. Later they were moved to rural hill areas and the agent has described in detail these secret training techniques, including address of the houses and the locations of the guerrilla training camps.

The agent was removed from his group for several weeks to undergo special training in secret communications techniques, in preparation for his current assignment.

The agent acts as a correspondence with persons in numerous points of entry in Latin America and with contacts in several European capitals who assist the group on their clandestine return. Although many left Peru openly on valid papers, they are coming back illegally. Some have false documentation from other countries, primarily from Colombia; some have Peruvian passports issued in the names of persons now deceased; some are crossing the borders from neighboring countries clandestinely without showing any papers; and some go by small boats to isolated areas.

6. The agent is a member of the Movimiento Izquierda Revolucionario (MIR) of Peru which now plans to join with other leftist revolutionary groups to bring about a coup before the elections scheduled for June 1963. The agent knows of some 200 Peruvians who have received Cuban training, only a small percentage of whom are actually Communist members.

7. Approximately 300 persons have been named by the agent as being connected with the ring helping the Peruvians to re-enter secretly. Attempts are being made to learn whether some of these, particularly those used as "Co-ordinators" or "Correspondence points" in Europe and the United States, are also connected with the illegal entry of Cuban-trained guerrillas to other countries.

8. Paris has emerged as the center of the network. Groups are sent from Cuba to Paris to be sent on to various Latin American countries for eventual re-entry into Peru. The man in charge of the Peruvians is headquartered in Paris. From there, he has been directing the travel, sending instructions to his scattered subordinates, and receiving reports and information from contacts throughout the world and handling funds.

9. Correspondence between members of the ring is by cable and letter. The security precautions: 5 alternate systems of code and clandestine key words and number designations are used. The trainees have been assigned a number and number designations are given to hotels and pensions. In cable correspondence, the ring uses these numbers to indicate which persons are traveling and where they may be reached. The content of the messages appears to relate to business matters, covering shipment dates and invoice numbers. Letter correspondence contains secret writing with relatively sophisticated systems, interspaced between lines of innocuous friendly or business letters. A dictionary is used for code words in either cables or letters, with page and word number references.

SECRET

10. The ring takes great precautions to prevent tracing of the addressees. One of the important links is a woman whose Paris home has entrances on two different streets. She and her husband use the principal street address for their normal lives, but the back street address for the receipt of clandestine correspondence.

11. In this Cuban-sponsored subversive operation, routes of travel are planned to escape easy detection of the fact that a person has left his home, been trained, and has returned to his country. Most of the travel has been by way of Mexico and thence to Cuba, since it was possible to escape detection of the travel. The Cubans issued loose leaf inserts for the travelers' passports, rather than stamping a record of the travel in the document itself. The Mexican government has recently begun measures to control this travel, but a number have managed to enter and leave Cuba for Mexico without detection. Some of the travel to Latin America is by way of the Dutch and British West Indies.

12. From Paris, the travelers fan out to a number of different Latin American countries from which they attempt clandestine re-entry. Colombia and Brazil have been used extensively as re-entry points. Many of the returning trainees go through Paris and Prague.

13. Our asset reports that money for the Peruvian operation has been deposited in Swiss banks and funded through Cuba. MIR leaders were told not to ask for extensive aid from the Soviets or Chinese to avoid straining relations with China, "since Cuba is backing them."

14. The MIR asset, who is responsible for the safekeeping of approximately $25,000, was given $1,000 initially to a local leader representing a French Communist group in one of the nearby towns. The money had been carefully cut up and funded through the Paris branch. The agent also reports that he left Paris before the documentation was ready for the trip and they were obliged to wait until another group of trainees were sent back in order to assist them by paying the cost of the travel of his members and the cost of agricultural equipment for information activities involving the trainees. When he left Paris, he estimated that at least $25,000 would be required to complete Peruvian revolutionary plans, but the leaders of the training camps had not made adequate plans to receive them. Recently, however, the operation has been soundly reorganized. The leaders of the MIR have been putting additional pressures on our asset and on others in the chain to assist the trained groups and increasing the exploitation of these nearby countries. Some of the trainees have spread across the border into Peru.

SECRET

15. The agent reports that the next group will number approximately 100 men and that they will receive instructions in Algeria, North Vietnam, Laos, and China. The top leader of the Peruvian group has told his lieutenants that he will soon go to Algeria to start arrangements for this training.

16. The MIR has planned four fronts in Peru in its proposed revolution. One is in the south with headquarters in Cusco, another is in the central region in the Sierra, a third is in Lima, and the fourth is in northern Peru. The agent has named the leaders in charge of each of the four fronts.

17. Our asset makes frequent reference to internal disputes in the MIR between the old line Communists and those referred to as Trotskyites. The MIR leaders in Cuba felt that some of their own groups had joined with the Trotskyites and they discussed this problem with Fidel Castro. Castro promised not to let the so-called Trotskyites return to Peru until the others were already in place and in command of the several fronts. Some of the avowed Trotskyites were among the first to be sent back, however, and the MIR leaders are highly incensed. The leaders fear that the Trotskyites will endanger the movement, and they have been especially critical of two Cuban sources had accompanied them from Cuba.

18. The Agency asset had first estimated that it would take at least two months for all of the Peruvians to return. The re-entry had fallen approximately a month behind schedule because of unexpected problems of transferring funds and because the Communist group in one of the neighboring countries who were to help them began to charge exorbitant prices. The Peruvians were obliged to wait until additional funds were sent to them by Cuba.

19. The agent also estimated that at least another month would be required before the trainees were completely re-integrated into the MIR plans for the revolution. The leaders of the training camps had not made adequate plans to receive them. Recently, however, the operation has been soundly reorganized. The leaders of the MIR have been putting additional pressures on our asset and on others in the chain to assist the trained groups and increasing the exploitation of these nearby countries. Some of the trainees have spread across the border into Peru.
