176-10036-10079 [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY : NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10079
RECORD SERIES : National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE : Possible severence of Cambodian
DATE : 9/17/1962
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 196: Vietnam, 9/62. Box 2

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE
This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL

(When Filled In)

COUNTRY : SOUTH VIETNAM, CAMBODIA
SUBJECT : POSSIBLE SEVERANCE OF CAMBODIAN-SOUTH VIETNAMESE DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS
REPORT No. TDCS-3/522,837
DATE DISTR. : 17 SEPTEMBER 1962
PRECEDENCE : ROUTINE
REFERENCES :
DATE OF INFO. : MID-SEPTEMBER 1962.
PLACE & DATE ACQ. : VIETNAM, SAIGON (14 SEPTEMBER 1962).
APPRAISAL : THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.
SOURCE : A SENIOR OFFICIAL (B) IN THE GENERAL CONFEDERATION OF VIETNAMESE LABOR

ROUTING:
BUNDY
KAYSEN
WILLYEG
PETERSEN
SCHLESINGER
JOHNSON
KLEIN
KOMER
RASKIN
SAUNDERS

1. LE VAN DONG, FORMER MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE, SAID ON 14 SEPTEMBER 1962 THAT HE HAS BEEN ADVISED BY A RELIABLE SOURCE IN CAMBODIA THAT THE ROYAL CAMBODIAN GOVERNMENT /RKG/ IS PLANNING TO SEVER RELATIONS WITH SOUTH VIETNAM. THE DECISION IS TO BE FORMALIZED AT A CABINET MEETING ON EITHER 19 OR 20 SEPTEMBER, AT WHICH TIME THE RKG MINISTER OF NATIONAL DEFENSE WILL REQUEST THE SEVERANCE OF DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS.

2. FIELD DISSEM. : STATE ARMY NAVY AIR. USMACV MAAG USOM
CINCPAC PACFLT ARPAC PACAF 9TH FIELD STATION.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL

END OF MESSAGE

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

STATE/INR
STATE/DIR
DIA
ARMY/ACSI
NAVY
AIR
JCS
SECDEF
NSA
NIC
AID
USIA
OC
ONE
OCR
ORR
081
00
EXO

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

FORM 1Ka OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.
5-62
