176-10036-10078
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER: 176-10036-10078
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:
ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: Opposition in Khanh Hoa Province
DATE: 9/13/1962
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION:
RESTRICTIONS:
CURRENT STATUS:
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 196: Vietnam, 9/62. Box 2

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C., Sections 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL NO FOREIGN DISSEM

(When Filled In)

COUNTRY: SOUTH VIETNAM REPORT NO. TDCS-3/522,229
SUBJECT: 1. OPPOSITION IN KHANH HOA PROVINCE TO ARMING DATE DISTR. 13 SEPTEMBER 1962
MOUNTAIN TRIBESMEN AND TO THE STRATEGIC
HAMLET PROGRAM
PRECEDENCE: ROUTINE
2. CONFLICT AMONG PROVINCIAL AUTHORITIES REFERENCES:
DATE OF INFO: LATE AUGUST 1962 DUNGAN
PLACE & DATE ACQ: VIETNAM, SAIGON (3 SEPTEMBER 1962) KAYSEN
APPRAISAL:
SOURCE: A MEDIUM-LEVEL OFFICIAL (C) IN THE GENERAL CONFEDERATION OF VIETNAMESE LABOR.
_PETERSEN
_SCHLESINGER
TAYLOR

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

1. ON 29 AUGUST 1962 BUI BO, GENERAL SECRETARY, KHANH HOA PROVINCE
COUNCIL, GENERAL CONFEDERATION OF VIETNAMESE LABOR (CVTC), AND MEMBER
OF THE PROVINCIAL COMMITTEE, REPORTED TO CVTC HEADQUARTERS THAT KHANH
HOA PROVINCIAL AUTHORITIES ARE STRONGLY OPPOSED TO THE AMERICAN POLICY
OF ECONOMIC AID, TRAINING, AND ARMS FOR THE TRIBAL PEOPLE. THESE
AUTHORITIES FEAR THAT THE TRIBESMEN MAY INDISCRIMINATELY KILL INNOCENT
VIETNAMESE, ESPECIALLY IN CASES WHERE THE VIETNAMESE COMMUNISTS
MINGLE WITH THE LOCAL POPULACE.
2. BO ALSO SAID THAT THE PEOPLE IN THE PROVINCE ARE OPPOSED
TO THE STRATEGIC HAMLET PROGRAM, BECAUSE THEY ARE REQUIRED TO

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
CONFIDENTIAL NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
FORM 5-62 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

CONFIDENTIAL
(When Filled In)
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

PAGE: 3 TDCS-3/522,229

PROVIDE TOO MUCH WORK, MATERIAL, AND MONEY. THIS OPPOSITION HAS
BECOME SO STRONG THAT PROVINCIAL AUTHORITIES HAVE ISSUED ORDERS
FORBIDDING ADDITIONAL DEMANDS FOR LABOR, MATERIAL, OR CASH.

3. BO REPORTED CONFLICT BETWEEN COMPETING FACTIONS IN THE
PROVINCE, WHICH THE PROVINCE CHIEF, MAJOR LE TAP, IS UNABLE TO
HANDLE. THE DEPUTY PROVINCE CHIEF FOR SECURITY, BA (FNU), A
CLOSE ASSOCIATE OF BRIGADIER GENERAL TON THAT DINH, COMMANDING
GENERAL, I CORPS, IS MORE INFLUENTIAL THAN TAP. TRUONG DINH CAC,
WHO HOLDS THE POSITION OF DEPUTY PROVINCE CHIEF FOR ECONOMIC MATTERS,
A POSITION NOT NORMALLY FOUND IN PROVINCIAL ORGANIZATIONS, IS THE
REAL POWER IN THE PROVINCE. CAC WAS ASSIGNED TO THE PROVINCE BY
NGO DINH CAN, BROTHER OF PRESIDENT NGO DINH DIEM AND POLITICAL
LEADER OF CENTRAL VIETNAM, FOR THE SPECIFIC PURPOSE OF BRINGING ALL
MAJOR PROVINCIAL ECONOMIC ACTIVITIES UNDER THE CONTROL OF CAN AND
HIS FACTION IN THE CAN LAO PARTY. BO DESCRIBED THE DEPUTY PROVINCE
CHIEF FOR ADMINISTRATION, YANG (FNU), AS A GOOD MAN BUT COMPLETELY
LACKING IN AUTHORITY.

4. FIELD DISSEM: STATE ARMY NAVY AIR USMACV MAAG USOM CINCPACT
PACFLT ARPAC PACAF 9TH FIELD STATION.

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
CONFIDENTIAL NO FOREIGN DISSEM
