```markdown
176-10030-10168 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

JFK Assassination System - Date: 5/5/2016
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER: 176-10030-10168 (Dup 176-10030-10085)
RECORD SERIES: ORAL HISTORY
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: ORAL HISTORY INTERVIEW WITH EDWARD G. LANSDALE
DATE: 07/11/1970
PAGES: 124
SUBJECTS: VIETNAM; CUBA-BAY OF PIGS
DOCUMENT TYPE: TRANSCRIPT
CLASSIFICATION: Not Marked
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/26/1998
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: sanitized version

SANITIZED MK. 99.41·12/00

Oral History Interview
with
Edward G. Lansdale
July 11, 1970
Alexandria, Virginia
By Dennis J. O'Brien
For the John F. Kennedy Library

O'BRIEN: I think a logical place to begin in anything like this is just simply with the question, when did you first meet President Kennedy, or Senator Kennedy, if you met him before he was President?

LANSDALE: I don't recall meeting him before he was President. The first meeting was, I believe, the first Saturday following the inauguration, whatever date that was. I was called into a meeting in the White House by Robert S. McNamara. It was a meeting, on, actually, on a report that I had written for Dwight D. Eisenhower. It was sort of an, I'm not sure

-2-

that it was, NSC [National Security Council] meeting, but it was comparable to that with the personnel that were attending. There were several Secretaries: Defense, State, and his National Security people were there.

O'BRIEN: Could you compare that with McNamara and Roswell L. Gilpatric, members of the incoming administration, before they actually assumed office?

LANSDALE: Just before, that is, a day or so before. I'd been in Vietnam for a brief visit and got back just before the inaugural, maybe two or three days, and at that time both McNamara and Gilpatric were in Defense getting briefed for their new jobs. I met them at that time. The outgoing Deputy Secretary of Defense asked me to start working with Gilpatric, and so I got to know Gilpatric rather than McNamara.

O'BRIEN: This is James H. Douglas.

LANSDALE: Douglas, Jim Douglas (James H. Douglas).

O'BRIEN: How is Douglas to work with, while you're with him? Is he a pretty sympathetic person?

LANSDALE: Yes, very much so, very much so. He was the one, actually, who wrote the orders and back-

-3-

O'BRIEN: stopped my visit to Vietnam, and back-stopped it principally so that I could take a look at some of the political factors as well as economic, military, and psychological and everything else. This, frankly, took a considerable standing on his part that because my views weren't always popular in other parts of the government, I gathered that there was some opposition to my going out, and he insisted on it.

LANSDALE: I'd like to come back to that. I wonder if we could go on to talk about one of the major problems, which is Cuba. When is the first time that you hear about the Bay of Pigs invasion, not the Bay of Pigs, but the plans?

O'BRIEN: Sometime in the fall of sixty. I think that I heard of it about the first time that it was brought up to the inner policy group of the Eisenhower administration. I was the Deputy Assistant to the Secretary of Defense, at the time, for Special Operations and used to accompany the Deputy Secretary, who was a member of the inter-policy group, to most of

-4-

the meetings that they had. When Allen Dulles (Allen W. Dulles) first raised the notion to this inner Senate group, I was present at the meeting.

O'BRIEN: What is the thinking about it at that time? What kind of operation is it, basically a guerilla operation at this point?

LANSDALE: Initially, it was. Initially, it was very different than the way it turned out. It was based on a premise that many people in Cuba were very unhappy with the Castro administration and the way it was turning away from the initial revolutionary objectives and the capture of the revolutionary movement by the Communist Party, which surprised many of the supporters of Castro as a guerilla and as a revolutionary action. So the thought was to back a number of Cubans who either had been supporters of Castro or were very unhappy, were still resident in Cuba, and to cause some overturn at the time.

The change of plan towards the Bay of Pigs gradually, the thing evolved fairly fragilely and apparently there was a planning group in CIA (Central

-5-

Intelligence Agency) who were working on this initial plan who started thinking in military invasion terms. I suspect that they were doing that because some of the Cuban military and military types, that is, very militant, were coming out of Cuba as refugees, and they suddenly saw a windfall of man power and started thinking in other terms of use of them. But this change was, the changed plan towards the Bay of Pigs was well under way in the inner circle thinking of CIA by December of '60, very definitely so.

O'BRIEN: Who were some of the inner circle people at this point, do you recall? Salinger, of course?

LANSDALE: I imagine Richard M. Bissell.

O'BRIEN: Let's see. Oh golly. Dick Bissell (Richard M. Bissell) was the overall chief of the group.

LANSDALE: Tracy Barnes, was he in it at that time? Tracy was an assistant to him, but how far actually Tracy went in the actual planning, I have my doubts that he was.

O'BRIEN: How about Broe, William Broe?

-6-

LANSDALE: He was one of a planning group who were planning the operation, but he wasn't the chief, and I can't recall the guy's name offhand.

O'BRIEN: Oh well, maybe when you get the transcript back, you can. How about from some of the other places? (MES C.) Mann, I suppose?

LANSDALE: Yes, but initially it was all CIA. They borrowed some military personnel to help with the planning earlier, but they were people who had been attached to CIA for temporary duty on other matters, and they hadn't come in initially for this specific planning. In December, when the planning had obviously started coming in with a beach landing and so on, the way it turned out, I urged at that point to get military planning in on the thing. I was worrying about it. As a matter of fact, Allen Dulles brought his planners to a policy meeting, a policy group meeting, and they were explaining the concept and my questioning was such that Allen Dulles pleaded with me not to spoil the plan at an early

-7-

O'BRIEN: stage. I remember General (Lyman L.) Lemnitzer was sitting in the meeting. He was Chairman of the JCS (Joint Chiefs of Staff) at the time and he backed up my urging them to get some military planning in on that. After that, there wasn't much among our policy people of that, and then the JCS set up a special section to plan along with the (Central Intelligence) Agency on that. And who the hell headed that?

LANSDALE: This is yet in the Eisenhower administration. This is all back in 1960. This was still in the early planning stages. This was before training or anything like that was put forward.

O'BRIEN: When the JCS got into the act, I asked to be disassociated with the project. I was rather critical of the concept, and it was just too clumsy and overt and a poor-planned feeling of people have knowledge of this, by the end of the Eisenhower administration throughout government, doing it.

LANSDALE: I don't know how widespread it was. There were key executives that were knowledgeable, there was a small group in the JCS that was

-8-

knowledgeable, and there was a planning group at CIA, but I don't think it went beyond that. I don't know how far it was known, but I thought it was rather closely held.

O'BRIEN: You don't know whether the presidential candidates at all, do you?

LANSDALE: Yes, they were. There was a very definite, no, wait a minute, the candidates, no, I don't think they were. As a matter of fact, it was still in a rather nebulous stage of shifting over in early November I think somebody told me, if I recall correctly, that the concept was in the form of a memo in CIA about August, so this would be well after the candidates had been nominated and so on. I imagine that it was just held by two or three people in the CIA at the time. At least, the rest of us certainly didn't know it. I forget exactly when I first heard it, but it would be possibly October, but it might have even been November, by the time I heard about it. As I say, I heard about it when it was surfaced with the inner circle of our administration executives.

-9-

O'BRIEN: Well, I suppose you had some conversations with Dulles and with Bissell and some of these people about it.

LANSDALE: Yes.

O'BRIEN: What's their feeling? You already discussed, asking you to sort of hold your criticism.

LANSDALE: Well, Bissell definitely felt the same way. Bissell was a very hard-working, intense person, almost high-strung type of individual. He became rather impatient with my questioning of the changed concept when it took place. I thought that if they had the correct personnel and they had a correct reading of dissent inside of Cuba, that was a fair chance to do something. My only concern at the time was: did the CIA have the Americans who could work with such a situation? I just didn't know of any, but I was assured that there were such Americans but I'm not certain that there were.

O'BRIEN: Did you question the kind of intelligence that was coming out about Cuba and the expected reaction of Cubans to an invasion and the

-10-

reaction to Castro in general?

LANSDALE: Just in very general terms. I didn't have enough concrete and specific information myself that was separate from theirs. Most of the intelligence take at the time, available inside the U.S. government, was pretty colored with this dissatisfaction and statements of it. So I had no real way of determining the accuracy or inaccuracy of it. Some of the adjectives used in describing this in briefings to us alerted me a little bit. It just sounded too much like a sales job on a viewpoint. I'd question that, whether that was an accurate thing, so this is about as far as I went.

O'BRIEN: How did a guy like Douglas react? Do you recall?

LANSDALE: Well, he approved of the plan, so he and the others at the policy level approved of going ahead with it and developing it. I was his advisor on this thing (That was my staff job), and I told him to be certain to get the JCS to give it a real hard scrutiny and to come

-11-

up with details of whether it could succeed or not. That was my last advisory role with him. I was taken off advising on the project after that, actually by my own request because I was apparently causing too much trouble and was a block of progress.

O'BRIEN: What was the reaction of the Joint Chiefs, people like Lemnitzer, towards this? Is there an institutional rivalry or bureaucratic rivalry here in their minds?

LANSDALE: Somewhat, somewhat. It was a little bit as though, well, somebody's going to be playing Boy Scouts, so this isn't really rivalry. They had a difficult time taking this really seriously. Later, I know, when the JCS got in and helped on the actual planning of this, they became much more serious on it because they had a share of it.

O'BRIEN: Well, do you get involved in the informing of McNamara and Gilpatric about this? Do you get any way of sensing what their reactions are on first being informed?

LANSDALE: No. They had apparently known by the time I

-12-

met them, I didn't get in on that. The one person who would have a view of their reactions would probably be Bill Bundy, (William P. Bundy) who I know at the time was discussing this with them.

O'BRIEN: Did you have Bundy and his people at that point?

LANSDALE: Yes. This was a little out of Bundy's field. He was always trying to figure out what the chances were, the percentages of win or loss. He was a bit low, and I hadn't known the final plan on this thing, and Bundy did, and he asked me what I thought. I told him, "Well, if the JCS maybe shade something, you can take it 10 percent lower than that and go along with it. I'm not sure that they know a clandestine operation, but they'd sure know a military landing, whether it would succeed or not. Given some of the unknowns in this thing, why, shade it by 10 percent and go along with the figure." Well, apparently they had given it a high chance of success, the JCS had, because Bundy said, "Well, you mean it's going to succeed then?" I said, "Well, I

-13-

don't know." I gathered that he felt it would succeed.

O'BRIEN: Well, then you are pretty much out of touch with it until it actually comes off. You didn't get in any of the changes in the plans there at all?

LANSDALE: Right.

O'BRIEN: September something?

LANSDALE: No. I left at around the first of December, '60. I really didn't follow it from then on.

O'BRIEN: Does anyone come to you from the Agency, from State, or from the White House, as far as that goes, and attempt to seek an independent judgement on your part, your background and all, on success with it?

LANSDALE: No.

O'BRIEN: How about the noise level on this? Obviously you're out of it, but is there much talk about it that is sort of filtering down in Defense and among the people that are around you that really have no need to know and direct involvement?

LANSDALE: I wasn't aware of it. There might have been, but I have no knowledge of that.

O'BRIEN: When the thing, the operation, actually begins and the landing has taken place, do you come

-14-

into it again at that point at any time?

LANSDALE: No.

O'BRIEN: You do become involved in Cuban affairs at a later time.

LANSDALE: Later, yes.

O'BRIEN: When do you have anything with the (Maxwell) Taylor committee? Which makes the inquiry about it?

LANSDALE: I met with them once, and they weren't interested with the Bay of Pigs. They were interested in the decision-making process, of making of policy, and asked me if I had any ideas on how better the President could be served in the policy decisions and arriving at them. The thing was, right at that moment, McNamara had previously asked me for the same thing, and I had come up with a proposal for him which he put to Kennedy. I just told them, "Well, I had some ideas but I had given them to somebody else, and I was skeptical of the boss anyhow," and this was on putting together task forces. The Kennedy administration had eliminated a bureaucratic boondoggling thing

-15-

O'BRIEN: and what the hell was that called?

LANSDALE: OCB? [Operations Coordinating Board] Yes, the OCB. I pointed out that the one good thing about it was that the principals met for lunch and I said the rest of it's for the birds, but to get men in government who are talking to me are held responsible by him for managing men, money, and material and so on, who can understand the problem well enough around the lunch table to have one secretary or deputy secretary or under secretary and so on, was to say, "Well, we'll take care of that," a good way of doing business and with the president's own national security man sitting in on it, going back and telling him this is going to happen for these reasons, why, it was a good control mechanism. So essentially all I told the Taylor people and told McNamara in my paper was that this function had been eliminated, along with cutting out a lot of dead wood, and there was some live wood, how about restoring the live wood? This essentially was what my proposition was with the task force,

-16-

of getting the people most concerned with something who could operate for the president, and having them get together and help form the policy, get the president's approval, and they were the same ones who could then do it immediately. Not to create another big bureaucratic thing. And of course, after they first tried this, it rapidly started becoming a big bureaucratic thing. The task forces that were later set up were just big staffs sitting in different buildings. It was almost like OCB again, not quite, but it got out of hand. Anytime you try to change the government around, it seems to come right back in form again and close ranks on it. But that was all I did with the Taylor group. Incidentally, in that inquiry into the Cuban bit was the first time that I met (Robert F.) Bobby Kennedy. For some reason or other, I didn't connect him personally with the pictures of him and so on, on TV, and I wondered what the youngster was doing sitting in the meeting

-17-

talking so much.

O'BRIEN: Was he pretty tough?

LANSDALE: Well, he wasn't tough. He was the most interested of anyone in the room there of what I would say on things and plague me with many questions.

O'BRIEN: How were his questions? Was he fairly naive about the problems?

LANSDALE: No, this was on problems, questions of how the government would operate at a decision level, and they weren't naive at all. He had a very good understanding. He was very much concerned about his brother's getting good service in the way of information and full details of alternatives and so on, on a policy decision.

O'BRIEN: Well, if you, you know, in that period right after the Bay of Pigs--of course you had a lot of contacts and friendships in other places outside the Pentagon. What kind of an impact does the Bay of Pigs have, let's say over in the Agency, and State Department, and in Defense, and in the White House?

-18-

LANSDALE: It was a traumatic experience at top levels throughout the government. I think it affected President Kennedy more than any other single thing. It was almost a taboo subject if you were going in to do business and to get an approval on something, never even hinted such a Cuban affair. It was an intensely sore subject among all of these people. I felt that almost all of the key executives in the administration must have dreamt about it at night or something, and during the daytime working hours they just even didn't even want to contemplate it. And yet they were honest enough people that they knew they had to face up and look at it and would do so, but it was an extremely emotional subject with them, very much so.

O'BRIEN: Well, in terms of the Agency, there's a number of programs and, of course, involvements in operations that they have. Do you see any shift in these, any attempt on the part of the Defense Department to move into some of these areas which they felt were traditionally theirs

-19-

rather than the Agency. I guess what I'm trying to say is, can you see any decline in the influence on the Agency in decisions?

LANSDALE: Yes, I think so. I'm not certain that it was the military as such. It might have been the like McNamara personally, and the encouragement of some of the military who were somewhat interested but wouldn't really have expressed the interest unless they were directly asked, and there always had been some feeling of unease, I think would be the best word to describe it--among the military about any clandestine type of operations. They felt that once it got over into guerrilla type of operations or anything that would involve a military subject, that it would be far better to let the military establishment of the U.S. handle it. But that would be sort of a dinner-cocktail party type of a gambit on their part, rather than sitting and planning and so on of "We must grab some of this," Even though among themselves they talked that way. They didn't express it in terms of their attendance at policy councils or even in

-20-

talks with people like the Secretary of Defense or the civilian, executive side of Defense. On this, I think that McNamara himself probably started thinking initially that this was a military operation and just to be more efficient and effective, the military should take over such things. I imagine that he talked that way to some of the military people that were seeing him from the JCS, and the Chiefs, and from the intelligence community, the military intelligence community. I know that DIA [Defense Intelligence Agency] got its great start under McNamara, and I feel almost certain, I've got a strong hunch, that the Bay of Pigs and the misreading of the temper of the people in Cuba gave McNamara great impetus in setting that up initially. So it actually wasn't a military ambition to set up a rival intelligence agency to CIA, though there had been tremendous rivalry between the military service intelligence agencies and the CIA and had been right along from the initiation of CIA originally. But this was sort of a business rivalry, and it wasn't

-21-

sort of dealing with them, of categories of work, and where the boundary lines of who did what on the thing, and this is where their jealousies and emotions and everything would come up over almost nitpicking of boundary lines of who would do what. It wasn't a thing of "we'll do it all, and you go out of business" that feeling hadn't come up--but after the Bay of Pigs, the DIA and its creation, a lot of the people in that who were civilian employees, Defense Department employees, had an idea, "We can do a better job than CIA," and in a much wider field than the service intelligence agencies had done.

O'BRIEN: Are there enough skilled and competent people around, in the universities and the military, to staff all the intelligence agencies: the NSA [National Security Agency], DIA, CIA, and organizations? Are there enough people, or are these operations just simply too big at this point?

LANSDALE: They might be too big. The need to know things is a very elastic bit. I'm certain that the chief executive of the United States,

-22-

in whose name these works are accomplished, would have no idea that he would ever desire to know some of the things that they're working on very hard. You discover whole buildings and all sorts of equipment busily accumulating facts and would say, "I can't imagine the United States ever needing to know some of that," and yet he would hesitate, given the world today and the technological advances and everything, it's very hard to say what you need to know and what you don't. Given this sort of a gray shading of the end objectives on this thing, it's very difficult to say whether you've got too big an establishment or not.

O'BRIEN: Do you ever take this question up, or is this question ever raised in the administration by the civilian people in DOD [Department of Defense] or the White House, with you?

LANSDALE: Not with me. No. My theme on overseas operations was reiterated enough so that it was known by a number of people, and I always felt that it was always more efficient and effective to have a very small group working and to choose them with very

-23-

great selectivity and go for a handful of highly qualified people rather than a large group of Americans charging overseas someplace. This went for intelligence as well as diplomatic and other economic work, and so on. I used to point out the embassies--for example, behind the Iron Curtain--that would get dessimated by being TNT'd and so on. In Eastern Europe, for example, it would happen that would wind up with an ambassador and two or three people left in an embassy, and their work would increase in quality, and their representing U.S. interests would seem to improve tremendously when that would happen.

O'BRIEN: Does the fact that you get this reputation, mainly out of the writings of guys like [Eugene] Burdick and Graham Greene, does this affect you in any way in your relations with the bureaucracy?

LANSDALE: Yes. It made life rather difficult. With that much of the work, I had to do in Washington, I came back from a lot of operations abroad and went up into policy-forming levels in

-24-

Washington almost immediately, and into facing people who were very sensitive on my presence abroad initially. Since I didn't just stick in a regular military category but would get over into their own subject matter, this made them very uncomfortable and I can understand it while it happened, but it was carried to too great an emotional length. At times I would suggest certain individuals be sent to look into a situation in a given country and would arrange their transportation and so on and I would get backing throughout the U.S. government for this thing, and have an individual approved by the Secretary of State as well as Defense and up at the White House and so on, but would set up a means of communicating back so that we would get reports back. There could be times when these individuals would show up in a country, and the first time they sent a message to me, the ambassador would ask them kindly to leave the country, to get out of there, just because of my name. I wasn't apparently the enemy to some of these

-25-

people. One of my assistants was traveling between Thailand and Saigon, and there was a coup going on in Saigon at the time and his plane, which was Air France, put down--commercial flight--in Phnom Penh, in Cambodia, and the military attaché very kindly picked up this guy and several other Americans from the plane and found a place for them to stay until they could get another flight out of Phnom Penh. He asked this lad of mine where he'd worked, and he said, "In the Pentagon"--he was a civilian employee--and he mentioned that he worked for me, and the attaché got all excited, called the ambassador, and he was given two hours to come out of the country. [Laughter] All he was doing was looking for a place to sleep at night, so it became very emotional and very silly, and detrimental to the U.S. For example, once in Indonesia, in meeting our folks around the embassy in Djakarta, I had spotted an assistant army attaché, who was the one American, along with

-26-

one of the economic mission guys--there were two Americans who were not only best known by the Indonesians but were respected, and there was an affection there and I have told the ambassador at the time, afterwards, "Make real use of these people, the Indonesians believe them, and there's some antipathy towards the U.S., but they make an exception to these two, and they're just invaluable," but the army man was extremely close to the general staff of the Indonesian army. I went on some visits to members at their homes of the Indonesian General staff, and this lad who was tall and blond--a Nordic type, if you will--would go in, and the small brown Indonesians would and their families would welcome him like a long lost uncle or brother or something. The children would run up and jump in his arms and climb all over him, and he was Uncle 'something' to them. So later, when the Soviets start moving in SAM [surface-to-air missile] missile sites into Indonesia and the U.S. needed to know what sort of antiaircraft armaments were going in, our embassy couldn't get the answers to it.

-27-

I suggested that we get the State-Defense sponsorship and send this one fellow who was a lieutenant-colonel over and just let him stay a week or so. He'd go right in and talk to his old friends, and they'd probably tell him what the Soviets were up to. He arrived there the Indonesian general staff took him out and showed him these sites and asked him what he thought of them and so on the first day he was there. That night he got back, and wrote out a radio message and asked the ambassador to send it to me, at which point our ambassador told him to leave the country.

O'BRIEN: Now, this was Howard P. Jones?

LANSDALE: That was Jones, yes. And he said, "Well, let me put that in the message," so I just asked the Department of State, to please let Jones know that you're sponsoring this guy, too, and there might be some more things that he finds out that you need to know as much as we do. So they told Jones just to sit back

-28-

and let him do that. We have some wonderful Americans, and this was what I was trying to do, was to find out which Americans have not only our interests at heart but were enough interested in foreign countries to be able to understand and have really would be serving the best interests of other countries in things. I'd far rather see one man get in on something like that than send a whole team in with all sorts of things, and sort of aggravate a situation rather than do something rather simple.

O'BRIEN: Almost sensitivity training.

LANSDALE: Incidentally, along these lines, I've got a good story for your account.

O'BRIEN: Great.

LANSDALE: About the time of the Cuban Missile Crisis, McNamara came back from a meeting at the White House one day and asked me to provide the means for President Kennedy to talk to the Cuban people on TV. How the hell did I know how to do that? He told me that he wanted to do it within the next twenty-four

-29-

hours. Well, it didn't happen. I suspected that it would take longer than that; I don't know how you intrude on a TV stations broadcasting and get the people in the country to go immediately to their TV sets and watch a program. I called scientists in from all over the U.S. who were electronic whizzes on this type of a subject, and our intelligence people and everybody else I could think of to get some information together in a real crash basis. CIA couldn't give me details, technical details on any of the TV stations in Havannah and elsewhere. One of the Defense civilian scientists--and I can't think of his name offhand; it was an East European name--left the room and came back ten minutes later and provided all the technical information, to the great amazement of everybody there. And I said, "Where the hell did you get that?" and he said, "Well, I went out to the corridor in the Pentagon (where we were having the meeting), sat in one of the phone booths there, and I called a friend of mine

-30-

down in Havana who operates a TV station and asked him. He gave me all the dope, and I just wrote it down." So this is the way we got the information for it. The intrusion of the TV space never took place, but we got the means together and some airborne TV transmitters. It was developed finally by the Navy, and the project--I've asked that it be put on a sort of sled so that it could be picked up and changed over from one aircraft to another, or used elsewhere later when we started the TV broadcasts in Vietnam, this Navy equipment that was initially intended to let President Kennedy talk to the Cubans was the broadcast equipment that was used from the air--flying in the aircraft--in Saigon, down to initiate TV broadcast in Saigon in 1965.

O'BRIEN: Why didn't it come off?

LANSDALE: It took us too long to figure ways of getting in on the theme and finding a channel and finding a way of getting people that do that.

-31-

It took us then, twelve days to do it, and the time for them to do it had passed over, and the Russians stood down in the interim, so the need had passed.

O'BRIEN: Well how do you come back into, well, maybe, perhaps we ought to pursue this whole business of counterinsurgency first. It sort of becomes the thing with the Kennedy administration, doesn't it?

LANSDALE: Yes.

O'BRIEN: How do you see that? I was in the Marine Corps in the late 50's, and there was a good deal of guerrilla and counterguerrilla training that was going on, and it becomes a part of the new administration. Who are the principle proponents of this, outside of yourself? Do you have any conversations, say, with Bobby--well, you don't really see Bobby until after April. But do you have any conversations with the president, let's say, meeting with him?

LANSDALE: No, no, I didn't. I don't know who talked to him about this. When he came in office, this was already one of his themes. Where he picked

-32-

that up originally, I don't know. I was rather surprised--he seemed to have seen copies of lectures and other things that I'd given on the subject. But who had passed those to him and who had talked to him about it, I just don't know.

O'BRIEN: Let's say, let's take a person like Max Taylor. Do you have anything in the way of conversations with Max Taylor in the late fifties?

LANSDALE: No.

O'BRIEN: How about the rest of the Joint Chiefs?

LANSDALE: No. Taylor was opposed to this type of thing. He did quite a considerable switch, see? He was about the last person I would have ever picked to have headed up something the way Kennedy asked him to do it.

O'BRIEN: That's what I was wondering about, Taylor's role in this whole thing. He is opposed?

LANSDALE: Well, he was the one that in the very early

-33-

formation of the Special Forces in the Army--he was Chief of Staff of the Army at the time--and took one look at these American troops in green berets and said, "Take that God damn silly headgear off," or "Take that--that's it." No, he really got tough on green berets, and he ruled them out of the thing. He wasn't too happy with a special unit of that nature. But at the time, it was that he went along with the concept that it was only a wartime outfit, that somebody would have to go and jump in and work with guerrillas. Again, this is a rivalry type of a thing, so there wouldn't be another OSS [Office of Strategic Services]--there'd be a CIA or something doing it, but this, after all, is part of the modern military function, so let's make it military. So he went that far on the thing. But that was a concept--you have a regular force fighting battle, and someplace back of the enemy lines, you'd want to blow up bridges and

-34-

gather information and so on to support your tactical force, so well why not have somebody in working and fomenting trouble back there for the enemy, but connected with the forces? Now the concept of peoples' war--Mao Tse-tung, how it is pushed, we've seen them in Vietnam and elsewhere. Really wasn't something that he or others understood at all, that almost all of us speak--see--guerrilla or counter-guerrilla, and that people like special forces might well, having learned guerrilla operations, would then be qualified to start coping with them and would understand the importance of political basis for operations and political goals and behavior and the psychological part of the operations. This really wasn't in any of their thinking because, as witnessed in Korea, we went and sort of had a small World War II in Korea. And in Vietnam later, we went in, again with Taylor as the ambassador, but

-35-

having quite a bit of an advisory role with our military commanders out there, and influence with them, was fighting another Korea in Vietnam more or less. There was some changes in tactics, but was more use of helicopters just for vertical envelopment rather than just instead of moving guys along the ground to with the thing.

O'BRIEN: Why don't they come to an understanding? [barking]

LANSDALE: I'm sure that's going to make a good