176-10036-10135 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER: 176-10036-10135
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:
ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: CIA Information Telegram
DATE: 10/4/1963
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION:
RESTRICTIONS:
CURRENT STATUS:
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 200: Vietnam, 10/6/1963-10/14/63. Box 2

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
CONFIDENTIAL NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY: SOUTH VIETNAM
SUBJECT: PLANNED SUICIDE OF AMBASSADOR BUU HOI'S MOTHER, DIEU HUE
REPORT NO. TDCS-3/560,871
DATE DISTR. 4 OCTOBER 1963
DATE OF INFO. 3 OCTOBER 1963
PRECEDENCE: PRIORITY
PLACE & DATE ACQ. VIETNAM, SAIGON (3 OCTOBER 1963)
REFERENCES: IN 32958
APPRAISAL: SEE BELOW
FIELD REPORT NO. FVS 9731
SOURCE: A VIETNAMESE BUSINESSMAN (F) WITH GOOD CONTACTS AMONG BUDDHISTS.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

APPR: EARLIER ALLEGED INTENTIONS OF DIEU HUE TO COMMIT SUICIDE IN SUPPORT OF THE BUDDHIST CAUSE WERE WIDELY PUBLICIZED. IT IS POSSIBLE THAT SHE MIGHT DO SO.

1. BY 3 OCTOBER 1963 THE BUDDHIST NUN, DIEU HUE, MOTHER OF BUU HOI, VIETNAMESE SCIENTIST, AMBASSADOR TO SEVERAL AFRICAN COUNTRIES AND CURRENTLY THE GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM (GVN) OBSERVER AT THE UNITED NATIONS (UN), HAD DECIDED TO COMMIT SUICIDE, PROBABLY ON 5 OCTOBER. THREAT WAS TIMED FOR IMPACT ON THE UN BUT WAS NOT TO BE BY BURNING.

2. DIEU HUE HAD PREPARED A LETTER DENOUNCING HER SON AND CLAIMING THAT BUDDHISM WAS STILL BEING PERSECUTED IN VIETNAM, COPIES OF WHICH WERE TO BE DISTRIBUTED TO THE FOREIGN PRESS AND TO THE "CLANDESTINE" OPPOSITION BY HER COMPANION AND ATTENDANT.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
CONFIDENTIAL NO FOREIGN DISSEM

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
IMMEDIATE TO: STATE (RCI) (FOR HUGHES: PLS PASS TO MR. HILSMAN)

FORM 4-63 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
CONFIDENTIAL NO FOREIGN DISSEM

IN 32958
TDCS-3/560,871
PAGE 2.

3. JUST PRIOR TO THE SUICIDE, THE COMPANION PLANNED TO DELIVER A COPY OF THE LETTER TO THE U.S. EMBASSY FOR AMBASSADOR LODGE AND TO SEEK ASYLUM. THERE, SHE BELIEVED HER LIFE WOULD BE IN DANGER AS THE GVN WOULD KNOW THAT ONLY SHE COULD HAVE DISTRIBUTED THE LETTER.

4. THICH THIEN HOA, PRESIDENT OF THE PRO-GVN UNION COMMITTEE FOR THE DEFENSE OF PURE BUDDHISM AND MOST OF THE OTHER MONKS AND NUNS AT THE AN QUANG PAGODA, WHERE DIEU HUE AND HER COMPANION RESIDE, WERE UNAWARE OF THE SUICIDE PLAN.

5. FIELD DISSEM. STATE ARMY NAVY AIR USMACV MAAG USOM USIS 9TH FLD. STA 2ND AIR DIV. CINCPAC PACFLT ARPAC PACAF.

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS.
CONFIDENTIAL NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CONTINUATION OF TDCS INFORMATION REPORT
