176-10036-10115
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER: 176-10036-10115
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:
ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: CIA Information Telegram
DATE: 7/16/1963
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION:
RESTRICTIONS:
CURRENT STATUS:
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 198: Vietnam, 7/1/1963-7/20/63. Box 2

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Law, Title 18, Sections 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS:
CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET
(When Filled In)

COUNTRY: SOUTH VIETNAM
SUBJECT: STATUS OF COUP D'ETAT PLANS OF TRAN KIM TUYEN'S GROUP.
DATE OF INFO: 15 JULY 1963
PLACE & DATE ACQ: VIETNAM, SAIGON (15 JULY 1963)
REPORT NO. TDCSDB-3/655,558
DATE DISTR. 1-16 JULY 1963
PRECEDENCE: ROUTINE
REFERENCES: IN 80366
FIELD REPORT NO. EVS 9309
SOURCE: A HIGH-LEVEL VIETNAMESE OFFICIAL (C) WITH EXTENSIVE CONTACTS AMONG GOVERNMENT LEADERS.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

ON 15 JULY 1963 AN INDIVIDUAL ASSOCIATED WITH THE COUP D'ETAT GROUP HEADED BY DR. TRAN KIM TUYEN, CURRENTLY AN ADVISOR AT THE PRESIDENCY, SAID THAT THEIR NATIONALIST, ANTI-COMMUNIST COUP WOULD OCCUR "SOON." HOWEVER, AS THE VIET CONG WERE REPORTEDLY PLANNING TO INTENSIFY THEIR ACTIVITIES DURING THE WEEK PRIOR TO THE ANNIVERSARY OF THE GENEVA ACCORDS (20 JULY), THE COUP WOULD NOT BE STAGED UNTIL AFTER THAT DATE. THE COUP WOULD BE DIRECTED AGAINST PRESIDENT DIEM AS WELL AS NGO DINH NHU, AND THE GROUP PLANNED TO ESTABLISH A CONSTITUTIONAL REGIME BEHIND VICE PRESIDENT NGUYEN NGOC THO.

FROM ANOTHER SOURCE (FIELD COMMENT: REPORTED DETAILS OF TUYEN'S PLAN AND THAT HE WANTED TO MOVE BEFORE THE END OF JULY.)

FIELD DISSEM: STATE (AMBASSADOR) USMACV (GENERAL HARKINS) CINCPAC PACFLT ARPAC PACAF JO

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS:
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
BACKGROUND USE ONLY
