176-10037-10453

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10037-10453
RECORD SERIES : National Security Files
AGENCY FILENUMBER : -
ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM : -
TO : -
TITLE : Information Report Re: Views
DATE : 8/14/1962
PAGES : 5
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 196: Countries, Vietnam, General 8/1/62-
8/14/62. Box 6.

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
ESPECIAL CARE TO THE CNOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL/BACKGROUND USE ONLY
COUNTRY SOUTH VIETNAM
SUBJECT: VIEWS OF BRITISH AMBASSADOR TO SOUTH VIETNAM, H.A.F. HOHLER, ON A NEUTRALIST SOLUTION FOR SOUTH VIETNAM

DATE OF INFO: EARLY AUGUST 1962
PLACE & DATE OF VIETNAM, SAIGON (7 AUGUST 1962)
INFO.
TDCSDB-3/6513039
DATE DISTR. 14 AUGUST 1962
PRECEDENCE ROUTINE
REFERENCES GEN 43629
DUNGAN
KAYSEN
KILDUFF
HEFFIELD REPORT NO. FVS-7782
DATE ACQ.
APPRAISAL SEE BELOW
SCHLESING
TAYLOR
BELK

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.
SOURCE: CAN INDEPENDENT VIETNAMESE JOURNALIST(C) WITH EXTENSIVE CONTACTS; FROM ANOTHER VIETNAMESE JOURNALIST.
APPRAISAL: ALTHOUGH IT IS PROBABLY TRUE THAT THE STATEMENTS SET FORTH IN THE REPORT WERE MADE AS INDICATED, IT IS CONSIDERED DOUBTFUL THAT AMBASSADOR HOHLER ACTUALLY HOLDS THE VIEWS ATTRIBUTED TO HIM.

1. BRITISH AMBASSADOR TO SOUTH VIETNAM, H.A.F. HOHLER, TOLD A VIETNAMESE JOURNALIST ON 2 AUGUST 1962 THAT HE HAD BEEN READING SOME OF THE JOURNALIST'S ARTICLES AND WAS "PARTICULARLY INTERESTED IN A LATE JUNE ARTICLE ON THE DIFFERENCES BETWEEN CHINESE COMMUNISTS AND THE SOVIETS OVER NORTH VIETNAM. AFTER DISCUSSING THESE DIFFERENCES AT LENGTH, THE AMBASSADOR STATED HIS BELIEF THAT A THIRD FORCE IN VIETNAM IS NOT ONLY POSSIBLE, BUT ACTUALLY EXISTS, AND THAT SUCH A THIRD FORCE IN NORTH VIETNAM, COMBINED WITH NEUTRALIST ELEMENTS IN SOUTH VIETNAM, IS THE ONLY HOPE FOR VIETNAM. HOHLER EMPHASIZED THAT THE ONLY SOLUTION FOR SOUTH VIETNAM IS VIA A NEUTRALIST COALITION SIMILAR TO THAT WHICH WORKED OUT FOR LAOS.

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification
S-E-C-R-E-T
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

STATE ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NICE USIA SOCI ONE OCR AID DIA EX

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

SECRET
(When Filled In)
CLASSIFICATION-DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
IN 43629
TDCS DB-3/651,039
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL BACKGROUND USE ONLY
PAGE

THE AMBASSADOR SAID THAT THE AMERICANS ARE NOT TRAINED IN GUERILLA WARFARE AND CAN NOT WIN THE WAR AGAINST THE VIETNAMESE COMMUNISTS (VC) IN SOUTH VIETNAM.

2. THE CONVERSATION TOOK PLACE AT THE HOME OF PETER ROBERTS, INFORMATION OFFICER AT THE BRITISH EMBASSY IN SAIGON, WHERE ROBERTS ARRANGED A MEETING BETWEEN THE JOURNALIST AND AMBASSADOR HOHLER. THE JOURNALIST HAS KNOWN ROBERTS FOR SOME TIME THROUGH PRESS CONFERENCES AND SOCIAL AFFAIRS AMONG JOURNALISTS. THE JOURNALIST WAS SURPRISED TO LEARN THAT ROBERTS HAD ARRANGED THE MEETING AT THE REQUEST OF THE AMBASSADOR WHO HAD EXPRESSED A DESIRE TO TALK WITH HIM.

3. NEITHER THE JOURNALIST NOR ROBERTS HAD MUCH OPPORTUNITY TO STATE THEIR VIEWS DURING THE CONVERSATION. THE JOURNALIST ASSURED THE AMBASSADOR THAT FAR FROM BEING NEUTRALIST MINDED, HE FEARS NEUTRALISM FOR SOUTH VIETNAM MORE THAN ANY OTHER SOLUTION, SINCE HE BELIEVES NEUTRALISM TO BE NO MORE THAN A MAJOR STEP TOWARD ULTIMATE TAKEOVER AND CONTROL BY THE COMMUNISTS. ROBERTS POINTEDLY DISAGREED WITH AMBASSADOR HOHLER'S STATEMENT THAT THERE IS NO CHANCE TO WINNING THE WAR IN SOUTH VIETNAM, INDICATING THAT IT IS MUCH TOO EARLY TO MAKE SUCH A BLUNT STATEMENT, ALLUDING TO THE HUGE EFFORT UNDER WAY AND THE GAINS ALREADY APPARENT. ROBERTS DID SAY HOWEVER THAT THE SURFACING OF THE OPERATIONS IN NORTH VIETNAM IN NGHE AN AND HOA BINH SHOULD DEMONSTRATE TO THE AMERICANS AND TO THE GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM THE FUTILITY OF SUCH OPERATIONS.

CLASSIFICATION— DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

SECRET
(When Filled In)
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL/BACKGROUND USE TDCS DB-3/651,039
ONLY
IN 43629
PAGE

ROBERTS ALSO COMMENTED THAT HE WAS SURPRISED AT THE FAILURE OF THE VC TO REACT EARLIER IN THE PROPAGANDA FIELD TO OBVIOUSLY EXPLOITABLE DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF PRESIDENT NGO DINH DIEM AND THE AMERICANS.

(SOURCE COMMENT: THE JOURNALIST SAID THAT HE THINKS THE ARTICLE THAT CAUGHT THE INTEREST OF AMBASSADOR HOHLER, ONE DATELINED SAIGON, 29 JUNE 1962, APPEARING IN AN EARLY JULY ISSUE OF THE PHILIPPINE HERALD, ENTITLED "INTRA-PARTY RIFT IN RED NORTH VIETNAM MOSCOW HAS AN EDGE ON PEIPING?". THE JOURNALIST SAID THAT HE BELIEVED THAT THE AMBASSADOR HAD READ OUT OF THE CONTEXT AND MISINTERPRETED VARIOUS STATEMENTS IN THE ARTICLE TO WHICH HE REFERRED, WHICH LED HIM TO CONSIDER THE JOURNALIST A NEUTRALIST. THE STATEMENTS BELIEVED INVOLVED, WHICH APPEAR IN LAST PARAGRAPH OF THE ARTICLE, ARE AS FOLLOWS: "STUDENTS OF COMMUNIST NORTH VIETNAM HERE WERE OF AGREEMENT THAT THE REPORTED GAINS, AT LEAST FOR THE TIME BEING BY THE PRO-SOVIET GROUP WILL EXERT A TEMPERATE INFLUENCE ON THE COURSE OF EVENTS... UNLESS IN FAVOR OF ITS PUPPETS AND THE FREE WORLD KNOWS HOW TO CASH IN ON THE RED DISPUTE THE CHANCES WERE NOT DISMISSED OF A LONGER TRUCE IN TOTTERING LAOS, AND EVEN OF A POLITICAL SOLUTION TO EMBATTLED VIETNAM.")

(FIELD COMMENT: IN A LATE JULY CONVERSATION WITH AN AMERICAN OBSERVER, THE COUNSELLOR OF THE BRITISH EMBASSY IN SAIGON A. BURROWS ATTACKED THE DIEM GOVERNMENT, STATING THAT

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL/BACKGROUND USE
(When Filled In)
TDCS DB-3/651,039
IN 43629
ONLY
PAGE

"THERE COULD BE NO HOPE OF PROGRESS AGAINST THE VC UNLESS DIEM WERE REMOVED."

IN CRITICIZING THE ILLIBERALITY OF THE DIEM REGIME, BURROWS APPLIED STANDARDS OF CRITICISM THAT EVEN THE MOST ADVANCED WESTERN DEMOCRACY WOULD FAIL TO MEET. DURING THE SAME CONVERSATION, COLONEL HENRY LEE, MILITARY ATTACHE, BRITISH EMBASSY, EXPRESSED HIS OPINION THAT THE WAR AGAINST THE VC WAS NOT PROCEEDING FAVORABLY FROM THE WESTERN POINT OF VIEW. LEE APPEARED CRITICAL OF DIEM AND SEEMED INCLINED TOWARD A MILITARY JUNTA POSSIBLY UNDER MAJOR GENERAL DUONG VAN MINH.

(FIELD COMMENT: AMBASSADOR TO SOUTH VIETNAM, FREDERICK NOLTING, COMMENTED ON 8 AUGUST THAT AMBASSADOR HOHLER HAS NEVER GIVEN THE SLIGHTEST INDICATION THAT HE HOLDS THE VIEWS ATTRIBUTED TO HIM IN THIS REPORT. ON 8 AUGUST, AMBASSADOR HOHLER TOOK COMPLETELY CONTRARY LINE IN A DISCUSSION WITH AMBASSADOR NOLTING, EXPRESSING OPTIMISM REGARDING THE PROSPECTS OF THE GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM. AMBASSADOR NOLTING SAID THAT HE BELIEVED THAT THE INFORMATION SHOULD BE TREATED WITH GREAT RESERVE AND WITH THE POSSIBILITY IN MIND THAT IT MAY REPRESENT A DELIBERATE ATTEMPT TO CREATE MISTRUST BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES AND GREAT BRITAIN.)

(FIELD COMMENT: NGO DINH NHU, BROTHER AND POLITICAL ADVISOR OF PRESIDENT NGO DINH DIEM, TOLD AN AMERICAN OBSERVER

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

SECRET
(When Filled In)
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL/BACKGROUND USE
ONLY
TDCDB-3/651,039
IN 43629
PAGE 5

ON 8 AUGUST THAT, WHILE HE CONSIDERS FRENCH POLICY BOTH IN PARIS AND IN SAIGON TO HAVE AS ITS OBJECTIVE THE NEUTRALIZATION OF SOUTH VIETNAM AND SOUTHEAST ASIA, HE FEELS THAT THE BRITISH HAVE A CONTRARY POLICY MORE SIMILAR TO THAT OF THE US. NHU SAID THAT HE HAS HAD NO INDICATIONS THAT CAUSE HIM CONCERN WITH RESPECT TO THE BRITISH ROLE IN SOUTH VIETNAM, AND INITIATED THE COMMENT THAT AMBASSADOR HOHLER HAD SAID TO HIM RECENTLY THAT AN INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON SOUTH VIETNAM OR THE NEUTRALIZATION OF SOUTH VIETNAM WAS "UNTHINKABLE.")

8. FIELD DISSEM:
STATE (AMBASSADOR ONLY), CINCPAC PACFLT PACAF ARPAC.
END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL/BACKGROUND USE ONLY
