176-10036-10117

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER: 176-10036-10117
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:
ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: CIA Information Telegram
DATE: 7/18/1963
PAGES: 4
SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION:
RESTRICTIONS:
CURRENT STATUS:
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 198: Vietnam, 7/1/1963-7/20/63. Box 2

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SEE SANITIZED VERSION + DOWNGRADED NLK-84-15

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title: U.S.C-Sect: 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
VIETNAM

(When Filled In) NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY
COUNTRY
SUBJECT: SOUTH VIETNAM
THE CURRENT SITUATION AND ON THE NEED FOR A CHANGE IN THE GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM
REPORT NO. TDCS DB-3/655,605
MAJOR GENERAL DUONG VAN MINH COMMENTS ON
DATE DISTR. 18 JULY 1963
PRECEDENCE ROUTINE
DATE OF INFO. 13-16 JULY 1963
NEW!! 141212 ME REFERENCES LINE 82003

PLACE & DATE ACQ. VIETNAM, SAIGON (17 JULY 1963)
FIELD REPORT NO. FVS-9322

APPRAISAL: SEE BELOW
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE: AN AMERICAN OBSERVER (B); FROM A UNITED STATES ARMY FIELD-GRADE OFFICER; FROM GENERAL DUONG VAN MINH.

APPRAISAL: GENERAL DUONG VAN MINH PROBABLY HOLDS THESE VIEWS.
IS KNOWN TO HAVE BEEN DISGRUNTLED WITH THE GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM SINCE 1960, EVEN THOUGH HE HAS NOT SO EXPRESSED HIMSELF TO SOURCE (SEE PARA. 2.B).

SUMMARY: ON 16 JULY 1963 MAJOR GENERAL DUONG VAN MINH, MILITARY ADVISOR TO PRESIDENT DIEM, CRITICIZED THE PRESIDENT, SAID THAT HE LACKED THE SUPPORT OF THE PEOPLE, AND ADVOCATED A CHANGE IN THE REGIME BUT ASSERTED THAT NGO DINH NHU COULD NOT TAKE OVER THE GOVERNMENT. HE ALSO SAID THAT BRIGADIER GENERAL DO CAO TRI WOULD REMAIN IN COMMAND OF THE 1ST DIVISION.

2. GENERAL MINH MADE THE FOLLOWING STATEMENTS:

A. PRESIDENT DIEM HAS CHANGED SO COMPLETELY THAT IT IS NO LONGER POSSIBLE TO REASON WITH HIM. IN THE EARLY DAYS HE HAD THE SUPPORT OF THE PEOPLE AND WAS VERY POPULAR THROUGHOUT SOUTH VIETNAM. IT WAS A SIMPLE MATTER AT THAT TIME TO GAIN THE SUPPORT OF THE PEASANTS FOR THE VARIOUS PROGRAMS OF THE GOVERNMENT. THEN HE BEGAN SCREENING HIMSELF IN AND BY 1959 HE HAD LOST COMPLETE TOUCH WITH THE PEOPLE. THAT MAY HAVE BEEN THE TIME TO HAVE CHANGED THE GOVERNMENT. AFTER 1960 DIEM CHANGED COMPLETELY, BECOMING CONVINCED THAT HE WAS OPERATING UNDER A MANDATE FROM HEAVEN. THIS WAS APPARENT IN HIS REMARKS ON 7 JULY WHEN HE SAID THAT THE COUNTRY WAS GUIDED BY INTUITIVE WISDOM.

B. THE BUDDHIST ISSUE IS AN ILLUSTRATION OF DIEM'S IRRATIONAL ATTITUDE. DIEM TOLD MINH ON 13 JULY THAT THE BINH XUYEN, THE HOA HAO, AND THE CAO DAI WERE ALL STRONGER THAN THE BUDDHISTS. THEY HAD REGULAR ARMED TROOPS BUT THE GOVERNMENT WAS STILL ABLE TO DEFEAT THEM, SO WHY CANNOT THE GOVERNMENT ALSO DEFEAT THE MONKS, WHO HAVE NEITHER ARMS NOR MILITARY ORGANIZATION? MINH WAS UNABLE TO CONVINCE THE PRESIDENT THAT THE SITUATIONS WERE NOT THE SAME BECAUSE OF THE RIGID STAND DIEM HAS TAKEN WITH REGARD TO THE BUDDHISTS (SOURCE COMMENT. THIS IS THE FIRST TIME MINH HAS MADE SUCH STRONG STATEMENTS AGAINST DIEM.)

C. THE BUDDHIST PROBLEM IS FAR FROM SETTLED IS BECOMING WORSE AND UNLESS THE GOVERNMENT CHANGES ITS POLICY THERE WILL BE ADDITIONAL BUDDHIST SELF IMMOLATIONS.

THERE MUST BE A CHANGE IN THE GOVERNMENT SOUTH VIETNAM

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
FORM 10-62
OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
(When Filled In) NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD BACKGROUND USE ONLY
TDCS DB-3/655,605

PAGE 3

IS LIKE A YOUNG TREE; IT HAS FIRM ROOTS AND IS GROWING BUT IT MUST HAVE A PROPER ATMOSPHERE SO THAT ITS LEAVES, E., THE PEOPLE, CAN BREATHE THIS IS LACKING IN SOUTH VIETNAM.

D. NGO DINH NHU CAN NEVER TAKE OVER THE GOVERNMENT; SHOULD HE SUCCEED, IT WOULD PROVE THAT THE VIET CONG (VC) ARE RIGHT IN CLAIMING THAT THE VC ARE THE ONLY ONES WHO REALLY FIGHT FOR THE PEOPLE (SOURCE COMMENT MAJOR GENERAL TRAN VAN DON COMMANDING GENERAL OF THE ARMY AND BRIGADIER GENERAL LE VAN KIM, MINISTRY OF NATIONAL DEFENSE ARE MINH'S CLOSE FRIENDS)

E. VICE PRESIDENT NGUYEN NGOCK THO TOLD MINH ON JULY THAT IT WAS VIRTUALLY IMPOSSIBLE TO OBTAIN AN AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE BUDDHISTS AND THE GOVERNMENT BECAUSE OF THE SELF-PRIDE OF CERTAIN KEY INDIVIDUALS, INCLUDING THE HUSBAND OF ARCHBISHOP NGO DINH THUC WHO HAD BECOME INVOLVED. THO HAS BEEN WANTING TO RESIGN BUT WAS NOT EVEN PERMITTED TO SUBMIT A LETTER OF RESIGNATION. HE STILL INTENDS TO GO THROUGH WITH IT, HOWEVER (FIELD COMMENT LEVS 9243 (DCS-3/552,503, REPORTED THAT DIEM HAD REFUSED TO ACCEPT THO'S WRITTEN RESIGNATION, SUBMITTED ON 15 JULY. FVS-9256, TDCS-3/552,565, REPORTED THO'S STATEMENT THAT HE WANTED TO RESIGN BUT WAS UNCERTAIN AS TO THE TIMING)

G. IF THE MILITARY PRESSURE AGAINST THE VC CAN BE CONTINUED AT THE PRESENT RATE THE ARMY CAN DISRUPT THE VC ARMED INSURGENTS. THE WINNING OF THE WAR AGAINST THE VC IS NOT SIMPLY A MILITARY PROBLEM, HOWEVER, BUT ONE THAT REQUIRES THE SUPPORT OF THE PEOPLE AND THIS IS LACKING.

H. NO TROUBLES ANTICIPATED FROM THE VC ON THE 20 JULY ANNIVERSARY OF THE SIGNING OF THE GENEVA ACCORDS; BUT STUDENTS MIGHT CAUSE TROUBLE BECAUSE OF THE SUICIDE OF OPPOSITIONIST NGUYEN TUONGETAM.

I. BRIGADIER GENERAL DO CAO TRI WILL REMAIN IN COMMAND OF THE 1ST INFANTRY DIVISION FOR THE TIME BEING AND BRIGADIER GENERAL LE VAN NGHIEM WILL REMAIN IN COMMAND OF CORPS, WHICH PLACES NGHIEM IN AN IMPOSSIBLE POSITION AS THE TWO MEN DO NOT GET ALONG WELL WITH EACH OTHER. TRI'S PROMOTION WAS DESERVED BECAUSE HE IS A VERY STRONG FIGHTER. (FIELD COMMENT. SFVS-9302, OBDB-3/655, 512, REPORTED NHU'S STATEMENT THAT TRI HAD BEEN PROMOTED AND NAMED COMMANDER OF CORPS. FVS-9267, TDCS-3/95/45 REPORTED NGHIEM'S STATEMENT OF HIS DESIRE TO RESIGN FROM THE ARMY)

3. FIELD DISSEM: STATE (AMBASSADOR NOLTING), USMACV (GENERAL HARKINS ONLY), CINCPAC PACFLT ARPAC PACAF

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY
