176-10036-10097 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY : NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10097
RECORD SERIES : National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE : Central Intelligence Agency Information Report
DATE : 4/25/1963
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 197: Vietnam, 4/63-5/63. Box 2

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 10, U.S.C. Sec. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CLASSIFICATION – DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY : SOUTH VIETNAM
REPORT NO. TDCS-3/544,961
SUBJECT : VIET CONG CONCENTRATION ON
DATE DISTR. 25 APRIL 1963
TERRORIST AND MILITARY
SUBVERSION ACTIVITY IN THE
CAPITAL AREA
PRECEDENCE : ROUTINE
DATE OF INFO. : EARLY APRIL 1963
REFERENCES : FIELD REPORT NO. FVS-8792
PLACE & DATE ACQ. : VIETNAM, SAIGON (8 APRIL 1963)
APPRAISAL : 3

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE : AN OFFICIAL GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM INTELLIGENCE SERVICE; FROM SOURCES DESCRIBED AS VIET CONG PENETRATIONS.

1. IN EARLY APRIL 1963, WARD-LEVEL OFFICIALS IN THE VIET CONG (VC) SAIGON-CHOLON-GIA DINH SPECIAL ZONE WERE INFORMED THAT TERRORIST AND MILITARY SUBVERSION ACTIVITY WOULD BE INCREASED. THE AREA TERRORIST ORGANIZATION WOULD OPERATE UNDER DISTRICT ORGANIZATIONS, WHEREAS PREVIOUSLY IT HAD BEEN DIRECTLY AND SOLELY RESPONSIBLE TO THE SPECIAL ZONE COMMITTEE. EVERY DISTRICT MUST DEVELOP ONE OR TWO TERRORIST GROUPS CONSISTING OF THREE CELLS EACH. OPERATIONS OF THESE GROUPS WOULD NOT BE LIMITED TO THEIR OWN DISTRICTS BUT COULD BE EXPANDED THROUGHOUT THE ENTIRE ZONE, AS OPPORTUNITIES AROSE. AMERICANS WERE TO BE THE PRIMARY TARGETS OF ALL OPERATIONS.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L NO FOREIGN DISSEM

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY
AIR
JCS SECDEF
NSA. KIC
STATE/DIR
OBI
00
EXO
TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
AID USIA OC I
ONE
OCR
ORR

FORM 1Kb
OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.
(15-20)
SANITIZED MRK. 01.197.6.8.11/15

CLASSIFICATION-DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TDCS-3/544,961
PAGE TWO

2. VC COUNTERPROPAGANDA PERSONNEL OF THE SAIGON-CHOLON-GIA DINH SPECIAL ZONE RECEIVED INSTRUCTIONS TO SUSPEND ALL ACTIVITY AND AWAIT TRANSFER ORDERS. THEY UNDERSTAND THAT MANY WOULD BE TRANSFERRED INTO MILITARY SUBVERSION ORGANIZATIONS IN THE AREA.

3. FIELD DISSEM. STATE ARMY NAVY AIR USMACV AID MAAG
USIA CINCPAC PACFLT ARPAC PACAF 9TH FIELD STATION 2ND AIR DIVISION.

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION-DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L NO FOREIGN DISSEM
