176-10036-10095 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM.
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER: 176-10036-10095
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:
ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: Central Intelligence Agency Information Report
DATE: 4/22/1963
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION:
RESTRICTIONS:
CURRENT STATUS:
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 197: Vietnam, 4/63-5/63. Box 2

TELEGRAM

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person, is prohibited by law.

SECRET
(When Filled In)

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/BACKGROUND USE ONLY/NO DISSEM ABROAD

COUNTRY: SOUTH VIETNAM REPORT NO. TDCSDB-3/654,285
SUBJECT: INDICATIONS OF GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM DATE DISTR. 22 APRIL 1963
PLAN TO REQUEST REDUCTION OF AMERICAN PRECEDENCE: ROUTINE
PERSONNEL IN VIETNAM REFERENCES: IN 22329
DATE OF INFO: MID-APRIL 1963
PLACE & VIETNAM, SAIGON (18 APRIL 1963) FIELD REPORT NO. FVS-8806
DATE ACQ:
APPRAISAL: SEE BELOW

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.
SOURCE: A VIETNAMESE OFFICIAL (F), WITH EXCELLENT CONTACTS AT THE PRESIDENCY.
APPR: IT IS POSSIBLY TRUE THAT BOTH DIEM AND NHU HAVE BECOME AT LEAST PARTIALLY UPSET
OVER CERTAIN AMERICAN ACTIVITIES IN SOUTH VIETNAM AND OVER THE LARGE NUMBER OF
AMERICAN PERSONNEL CURRENTLY IN SOUTH VIETNAM.

1. BY MID-APRIL 1963 A CONSIDERABLE AMOUNT OF TENSION HAD
DEVELOPED BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM AND THE U.S. GOVERNMENT
OVER OPERATIONS IN SOUTH VIETNAM. BOTH DIEM AND NGO DINH NHU WERE
CONCERNED OVER RECENT "INFRINGEMENTS" OF VIETNAMESE SOVEREIGNTY.
MAAG WAS CITED AS A VIOLATOR IN THIS CONNECTION, BUT THE U.S.
SPECIAL FORCES WERE SINGLED OUT AS THE MAIN IRRITANT. DIEM IS
ALLOWING ADDITIONAL TIME FOR FURTHER BLUNDERS AND, AFTER BUILDING
UP A STRONG CASE, HE PLANS TO CONFRONT AMBASSADOR NOLTING AND
USMACV CHIEF GENERAL HARKINS WITH IRREFUTABLE EVIDENCE OF U.S.
RESPONSIBILITY, DEMANDING A REDUCTION IN THE NUMBER OF U.S.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM/BACKGROUND USE ONLY/NO DISSEM ABROAD

FORM 18-20
1 JUN 61 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.
SANITIZED NARA 01-197-6-6-3

SECRET
(When Filled In)
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/BACKGROUND USE ONLY/NO DISSEM ABROAD

PERSONNEL IN SOUTH VIETNAM ON THE BASIS THAT THE FORCE IS TOO
LARGE AND UNMANAGEABLE.

2. SOME VIETNAMESE INVOLVED IN CLOSE WORKING RELATIONSHIPS
WITH AMERICANS WERE BEING QUESTIONED IN DETAIL BY PRESIDENCY
STAFF MEMBERS AS TO U.S. ACTIVITIES. SOME OF THE INDIVIDUALS
QUESTIONED HAD INDICATED TO THE PRESIDENCY THAT THE U.S. MILITARY,
AND PARTICULARLY THE U.S. SPECIAL FORCES, ALTHOUGH GENERALLY
WELL MOTIVATED, DID NOT SEEM TO UNDERSTAND THE NECESSITY FOR
COORDINATING THEIR ACTIVITIES WITH APPROPRIATE VIETNAMESE
AUTHORITIES.

3. FIELD DISSEM: STATE (AMBASSADOR NOLTING), USMACV
(GENERAL HARKINS), MAAG (GENERAL TIMMES), CINCPAC PACFLT ARPAC
PACAF.

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM/BACKGROUND USE ONLY/NO DISSEM ABROAD
