176-10036-10116 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY : NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10116
RECORD SERIES : National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM :
TO:
TITLE : CIA Information Telegram
DATE: 7/17/1963
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 198: Vietnam, 7/1/1963-7/20/63. Box 2

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY : SOUTH VIETNAM
REPORT NO. TDCS -3/553,724
SUBJECT : POSSIBLE CHANGE IN GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM FOREIGN POLICY IN LIGHT OF APPOINTMENT OF AMBASSADOR LODGE
DATE DISTR. : JULY 1963
PRECEDENCE ROUTINE
REFERENCES : IN 80437
PLACE & VIETNAM, SAIGON (15 JULY 1963).
DATE OF INFO. : MID-JULY 1963
DATE ACQ. : SEE BELOW
APPRAISAL : FIELD REPORT NO. FVS-9314
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.
SOURCE: A HIGH-LEVEL VIETNAMESE SECURITY OFFICIAL (C) WITH EXTENSIVE CONTACTS AMONG GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS.

IT IS PROBABLY TRUE THAT THE GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM HAS RECALLED SOME OF ITS FOREIGN REPRESENTATIVES; HOWEVER, WHETHER THE REASON IS TO DEFINE A NEW FOREIGN POLICY IN LIGHT OF AMBASSADOR LODGE'S APPOINTMENT IS UNKNOWN. SEE HEADQUARTERS COMMENT, PARAGRAPH 2.

BY MID JULY 1963 PRESIDENT NGO DINH DIEM WAS CONSIDERABLY DISTURBED OVER THE DESIGNATION OF HENRY CABOT LODGE, JR. AS AMBASSADOR TO THE GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM (GVN). THE APPOINTMENT SUGGESTED TO DIEM THAT THE UNITED STATES PLANNED TO WIELD A "BIG STICK," AND THE GVN RECALLED A NUMBER OF ITS DIPLOMATS FOR CONSULTATION. AMONG THEM WERE THE REPRESENTATIVES IN KUALA LUMPUR AND SINGAPORE, NEW DELHI, JAKARTA, TOKYO, RANGOON, AND SENEGAL AND SEVERAL OTHER AFRICAN NATIONS.

THE REPRESENTATIVES WERE RECALLED OSTENSIBLY SO THAT THEY COULD ATTEND A SEMINAR ON THE STRATEGIC HAMLET PROGRAM WHICH WOULD ENABLE THEM TO EXPLAIN THE PROGRAM ABROAD; HOWEVER, THE GVN ACTUALLY

CLASSIFICATION: DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE INDIA ARMY/ACS NAVY
STATE/DIR IR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC AID USIA OC
GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
FORM 139b OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

CLASSIFICATION-DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TDCS-3/553,724
IN 80437
PAGE

WANTED TO DISCUSS ITS POSITION IN REGARD TO THE BUDDHIST SITUATION AND TO ATTEMPT TO DEFINE A NEW GVN FOREIGN POLICY IN THE LIGHT OF THE LODGE APPOINTMENT.

HEADQUARTERS COMMENT. TDCS-3/552,830 REPORTED THAT BUU HOI, GVN AMBASSADOR TO THE IVORY COAST, MOROCCO, NIGERIA, UPPER VOLTA, AND SENEGAL WAS EXPECTED IN SAIGON ON 15 JULY. CS3/533,307 REPORTED THAT NGO DINH NHU HAD STATED AT AN INTERMINISTERIAL COMMITTEE ON STRATEGIC HAMLETS' MEETING THAT THE MINISTER OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS HAD FAILED TO ENROLL HIS PERSONNEL IN THE COURSE AT THE THI NGHE STRATEGIC HAMLET CENTER, AND THAT IF NECESSARY THE MINISTER SHOULD RECALL HIS PERSONNEL FROM EMBASSIES ABROAD IN ORDER TO MEET THIS REQUIREMENT.

FIELD DISSEM: STATE ARMY NAVY AIR USMCY MAAG AID USIA
2ND AIR DIVISION 9TH FIELD STATION CINCPAC PACELTARPAC PACAF
END OF DOCUMENT
