176-10036-10113 [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER: 176-10036-10113
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:
ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: CIA Information Telegram
DATE: 7/12/1963
PAGES: 4
SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
RESTRICTIONS:
CURRENT STATUS:
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 198: Vietnam, 7/1/1963-7/20/63. Box 2

S. Vietnam
TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Sec 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

SANITIZED VERSION
NUK-81-269; NLK-89-15+
DOWNGRADED

COUNTRY: SOUTH VIETNAM
SUBJECT: D'ETAT PLAN OF NGO DINH NHU
DATE OF INFO: 11-12 JULY 1963
PLACE & DATE ACQ: VIETNAM, SAIGON (12 JULY 1963)
SOURCE: A GENERAL OFFICER (B) WHO EITHER ATTENDED THE MEETING OR WHO ACQUIRED THE INFORMATION FROM AN OFFICER WHO ATTENDED THE MEETING.
APPRAISAL: THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.
REPORT NO: TDCS DB-3/655,517
DATE DISTR: 12 JULY 1963
PRECEDENCE: PRIORITY
REFERENCES: FIELD REPORT-NO EVS 9305 A

1. NGO DINH NHU PROPOSED TO ARMY GENERAL OFFICERS ON 11 JULY 1963 THAT THEY STAGE A COUP D'ETAT AS SOON AS POSSIBLE. THIS COUP MUST BE STAGED OVERNIGHT AND THE ARMY SHOULD TURN OVER CONTROL TO CIVILIANS THE NEXT DAY.

2. NGO DINH NHU TOLD A GROUP OF GENERAL OFFICERS CONVENED ON 11 JULY 1963 THAT THE GOVERNMENT WAS MAKING NO PROGRESS IN THE WAR AGAINST THE VIET CONG OR IN OTHER PROGRAMS AND THAT THE GENERAL OFFICERS MUST PROVIDE THE ACTION REQUIRED. THE GENERAL OFFICERS HAVE BEEN CONTINUALLY HUMILIATED IN THE EYES OF THE PEOPLE AND IN ORDER TO REGAIN POPULAR RESPECT THEY MUST ENGINEER A COUP D'ETAT.

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS: NO FOREIGN DISSEM/BACKGROUND USE ONLY
TO: DIRNSA (PROD WO)
WHITE HOUSE SIT ROOM
STATE/INR/DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR
JCS SECDEFENSA NIC ONE OCA EXO
PREVIOUS: 78592
TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
ROUTINE IMMEDIATE
STATE (RCI)(FOR HUGHES)
OP 922

NHU SAID THAT HE WOULD SUPPORT THE COUP IN RESPONSE TO A QUERY. NHU SAID THAT THE GENERAL OFFICERS MUST SUPPORT HIM.

4. NHU SAID THAT HE WAS NOT IN ACCORD WITH THE PRESIDENT OR WITH THE ADMINISTRATION IN GENERAL: ALTHOUGH MANY PROBLEMS HAVE BEEN HANDED TO HIM, HE HAS HAD NO REAL POWER TO FORCE THE PRESIDENT OR OTHERS TO MAKE DECISIONS OR TO TAKE NECESSARY ACTION. ONLY WITHIN THE PAST YEAR, IN FACT, HAS HE HAD ANY OFFICIAL POSITION: DIRECTOR OF THE STRATEGIC HAMLET PROGRAM.

5. NHU SAID THAT THE ARRIVAL OF A NEW U.S. AMBASSADOR WOULD BRING ABOUT CHANGES AND THAT FAST ACTION WAS NECESSARY; IMMEDIATE DECISIONS MUST BE REACHED. THE COUP IS THE ONLY CHANCE FOR SUCCESS; THE ARMY MUST SEIZE THE TROUBLE MAKERS FOR EXAMPLE THE BUDDHIST MOVEMENT MUST BE QUELLED. NHU QUALIFIED THIS STATEMENT BY ADDING THAT HE DID NOT MEAN THE BUDDHISTS PER SE WERE TO BLAME BUT THAT THEIR RINGLEADERS HAD USED THEIR RELIGION TO FURTHER THEIR OWN AMBITIONS AND DESIGNS.

6. NHU CONTINUED BY SAYING THAT THE COUP MUST BE STAGED OVERNIGHT; IT MUST BE LIGHTNING FAST AND PROBABLY ALL THAT WOULD BE NEEDED WOULD BE A SHOW OF FORCE. ON THE FOLLOWING DAY, THE GENERAL OFFICERS MUST TURN THE GOVERNMENT OVER TO CIVILIAN CONTROL. IN RESPONSE TO A STATEMENT FROM MAJOR GENERAL NGUYEN NGOC LE, CHIEF OF VETERANS, THAT SUCH AN ACTION REQUIRED MAJOR DECISIONS AND A PLAN, NHU SAID THAT HE AND HIS WIFE AND THE GENERAL OFFICERS WOULD HAVE THE REQUIRED PLAN. NHU COMMENTED THAT HE REALIZED THAT HIS WIFE WAS NOT LIKED BY MANY PEOPLE BUT THAT SHE HAD TRIED TO HELP IN THE FIGHT FOR VIETNAM AND THAT SHE HERSELF REALIZED THAT SHE HAD MANY SHORTCOMINGS.

7. GENERAL LE THEN SAID TO NHU: "YOU SAY THAT YOU DO NOT AGREE WITH THE GOVERNMENT BUT THE PEOPLE SAY THAT YOU ARE CONCERNED WITH ALL DECISIONS MADE". NHU REPEATED HIS COMMENTS ON LACK OF POWER, FAILURE TO HAVE HIS ADVICE ACCEPTED AND HIS LACK OF OFFICIAL POSITION IN THE GOVERNMENT.

8. GENERAL LE COMMENTED ON 12 JULY THAT ALTHOUGH NHU MIGHT BE WILLING TO OVERTHROW THE DIEM GOVERNMENT, LE THOUGHT THAT THEY SHOULD PROCEED WITHOUT NHU ADDING THAT ALL THAT THE NHUS WANTED TO DO WAS TO SAVE THEMSELVES. (SOURCE COMMENT: ALL OF THE NHU'S CHILDREN HAVE BEEN BROUGHT INTO SAIGON AND THE NHUS ALSO HAVE AN ESCAPE PLAN.)

9. BRIGADIER GENERAL PHAM XUAN CHIEU SAID ON 12 JULY THAT ANY COUP D'ETAT ACTION MUST BE TAKEN IMMEDIATELY AND THAT GENERAL OFFICERS SHOULD COOPERATE.

10. COLONEL LE QUAN VIEN SAID ON 12 JULY THAT HE HAD NOT ATTENDED THE 11 JULY MEETING BUT WAS AWARE THAT SOMETHING WAS GOING ON, ADDING NHU AGREED WITH DIEM THAT SOME CHANGES SHOULD BE MADE BEFORE AMBASSADOR DESIGNATE LODGE ARRIVED; NHU HOWEVER, WANTED TO GO FURTHER AND HAVE A COUP D'ETAT WITHOUT DELAY.

11. VIEN SAID THAT THE FOLLOWING GENERAL OFFICERS WERE LEADERS IN THE COUP PLANNING GROUP: BRIGADIER GENERAL TON THAT DINH, COMMANDING GENERAL, III CORPS; COLONEL HUYNH VAN CAO, COMMANDER, IV CORPS; BRIGADIER GENERAL NGUYEN VAN LA, COMMANDER, CAPITAL AREA; AND BRIGADIER GENERAL NGUYEN KHANH, COMMANDING GENERAL II CORPS.

12. VIEN MENTIONED ANOTHER GROUP THAT WOULD SUPPORT A COUP PLACING PRESIDENT THO IN TEMPORARY CONTROL AS INCLUDING MAJOR GENERAL DUONG VAN MINH, MILITARY ADVISOR TO THE PRESIDENT; BRIGADIER GENERAL TRAN VAN DON COMMANDER OF THE ARMY AND TWO OTHERS.

FIELD DISSEM: STATE (AMBASSADOR) USMACV (GENERAL HARKINS)
CINCPAC ARPAC PACAF PACELT.

END OF MESSAGE
FOREIGN DISSEM!
