176-10037-10454

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER: 176-10037-10454
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:
ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: Information Report
DATE: 9/25/1962
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION:
RESTRICTIONS:
CURRENT STATUS:
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 196: Countries, Vietnam, General 9/22/62-9/27/62. Box 6.

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited.

CLASSIFICATION — DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL NO FOREIGN DISSEM
(When Filled In)

COUNTRY: SOUTH VIETNAM CHINA (TAIWAN) LAOS
REPORT NO. TDCS-3/523,453
SUBJECT: PROPOSED JOINT CHINESE NATIONALIST-SOUTH VIETNAMESE INTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS IN LAOS
DATE DISTR. 25 SEPTEMBER 1962
PRECEDENCE ROUTINE
DATE OF INFO.: MID SEPTEMBER 1962
REFERENCES: SMITH BUNDY
DUNGAN
KAYSEN
KILDUFF
SCHLESINGER
PLACE & DATE ACQ.: VIETNAM, SAIGON (21 SEPTEMBER 1962)
APPRAISAL: FIELD REPORT NO. FVS 7977 BELK
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.
SOURCE: A HIGH-LEVEL MEMBER (B) OF THE CHINESE NATIONALIST DIPLOMATIC MISSION IN SAIGON, WHO IS BELIEVED TO REPORT WITHOUT THE KNOWLEDGE OR APPROVAL OF HIS GOVERNMENT.

KOMER
RASKIN
SAUNDERS

1.  IN MID-SEPTEMBER 1962, TRAN KIM TUYEN, CHIEF, PRESIDENTIAL SECURITY SERVICE, PROPOSED TO HUANG TIEN-MAI, CHIEF OF THE CHINESE NATIONALIST NATIONAL SECURITY BUREAU INTELLIGENCE STATION IN SAIGON, THAT SOUTH VIETNAM AND NATIONALIST CHINA CONDUCT JOINT INTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS IN LAOS. TUYEN CLAIMED THAT THE DETERIORATING SITUATION IN LAOS, AND THE STRONG POSSIBILITY THAT THE GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM WOULD BREAK RELATIONS WITH LAOS, NECESSITATED IMMEDIATE CONSIDERATION OF SUCH A PROPOSAL. TUYEN TOLD HUANG THAT HE ENVISIONED THE ESTABLISHMENT OF INTELLIGENCE STATIONS ON THE BORDER BETWEEN LAOS AND SOUTH VIETNAM, AS WELL AS IN LAOS, TO SUPPORT JOINT VIETNAMESE/NATIONALIST CHINESE AGENT OPERATIONS.

CLASSIFICATION — DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL NO FOREIGN DISSEM

GROUP I
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification

DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR
JCS SECDEF
NSA
NIC
AID USIA OCI
ONE
OCR
ORR
OSI
STATE/INR
STATE/DIRE

FORM 5-62 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.
(15-20)

CLASSIFICATION — DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL NO FOREIGN DISSEM
(When Filled In)
TDCS-3/523,453
PAGE 2

2. HUANG CONCURRED IN PRINCIPLE, BUT ADVISED TUYEN THAT HE HAD TO OBTAIN THE APPROVAL OF THE CHINESE NATIONALIST GOVERNMENT BEFORE ENTERING INTO DETAILED NEGOTIATIONS. ON 19 SEPTEMBER HUANG TELEGRAPHED HIS HEADQUARTERS IN TAIPEI, OUTLINING TUYEN'S PROPOSAL, AND REQUESTING EARLY APPROVAL.

3. FIELD DISSEM. STATE ARMY NAVY AIR USMACE USOM MAAG
CINCPAC PACFLT ARPAC PACAF 9TH FIELD STATION.

CONFIDENTIAL
END OF MESSAGE
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
