176-10036-10131 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY : NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10131
RECORD SERIES : National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM :
TO:
TITLE : CIA Information Telegram
DATE : 9/19/1963
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION : CONFIDENTIAL
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 200: Vietnam, 9/17/1963-9/21/63. Box 2

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Sect. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CLASSIFICATION — DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
CONFIDENTIAL NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

REPORT NO. TDCS DB-3/656, 739

COUNTRY: SOUTH VIETNAM
SUBJECT: GENERAL NGUYEN KHANH PLANS TO MAKE HIS FINAL DECISION SOON ON ANY ACTION AGAINST THE DIEM REGIME
DATE DISTR. 19 SEPTEMBER 1963
PRECEDENCE: ROUTINE
DATE OF INFO.: 15 - 16 SEPTEMBER 1963
REFERENCES: IN 22714
PLACE & VIETNAM, SAIGON (16 - 17 SEPTEMBER 1963)
DATE ACQ.:
APPRAISAL: SEE BELOW FIELD REPORT NO. FVS - 9660

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE: A COMPANY-GRADE OFFICER ON THE STAFF OF GENERAL NGUYEN KHANH.

APPR: KHANH MAY STILL BE THINKING ABOUT ANTI-GOVERNMENT ACTION, BUT WITHOUT ASSURANCES FROM THE UNITED STATES OF SUPPORT, HE WILL PROBABLY NOT INITIATE ANY ACTION.

NEVERTHELESS, THE POSSIBILITY OF HIS MOUNTING A COUP D'ETAT CANNOT BE COMPLETELY DISCOUNTED SINCE AN INDIVIDUAL CONNECTED WITH THE TRAN KIM TUYEN COUP GROUP HAS SAID THAT KHANH MIGHT TAKE ACTION AGAINST THE DIEM GOVERNMENT, AND SINCE KHANH'S NAME HAS BEEN MENTIONED AS ONE OF A NUMBER OF ALLEGEDLY DISSIDENT GENERALS.

1. ON 15 SEPTEMBER 1963 BRIGADIER GENERAL NGUYEN KHANH, II CORPS COMMANDER, SAID THAT HE WOULD DECIDE IN A DAY OR TWO WHETHER OR NOT TO PROCEED WITH PLANNING ACTION AGAINST THE DIEM REGIME. (FIELD COMMENT. SEE FVS-9634, TDCSDB-3/656, 637, FOR PREVIOUS REPORT ON KHANH'S PLANNING.) HE REMARKED THAT IF HIS DECISION WERE NEGATIVE, HE WOULD CEASE ALL PLANNING AND NOT REVIVE THE PROJECT.

2. ON 16 SEPTEMBER KHANH SAID THAT HE HAD CHANGED HIS MIND AND WOULD MULL OVER THE SITUATION FOR ANOTHER WEEK BEFORE GIVING HIS FINAL DECISION. KHANH PLANNED TO RETURN TO THE II CORPS AREA ON 18 SEPTEMBER.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
CONFIDENTIAL
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO-DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD
BACKGROUND USE ONLY
TDCS DB-3/656, 739
PAGE 2. SEPTEMBER.
FIELD DISSEM. STATE (AMBASSADOR LODGE) USMACY (GENERAL HARKINS) CINCPAC ARPAC PACAF PACFLT.

END OF MESSAGE

CONTINUATION OF TDCS INFORMATION REPORT
