2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information
AGENCY: LBJ
RECORD NUMBER: 177-10002-10102
RECORD SERIES: NSF, INTELLIGENCE BRIEFINGS, 11/23/63-12/5/63
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: THE PRESIDENT'S INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST
DATE: 11/30/1963
PAGES: 11
SUBJECTS: INTELLIGENCE REPORT
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; Mandatory Review Material
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/12/1997
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: DOC. #8

ROUTING
INITIALS
TO: NAME AND ADDRESS DATE
1 James Mathis, spec. Access, NARA 1/14/15
2
3
4
ACTION
APPROVAL
COMMENT
CONCURRENCE
PREPARE REPLY
RECOMMENDATION
DIRECT REPLY
DISPATCH
FILE
INFORMATION
RETURN
SIGNATURE

CONTROL NO. SC-NLJ-089/93
COPY 2 OF

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS, AND PHONE NO. DATE
Jennifer Cuddeback, LBJ Library 4/14/15

Handle Via
COMINT
Channels

Access to this document will be restricted to
those approved for the following specific activities:

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
Unauthorized Disclosure Subject to Criminal Sanctions

TOP SECRET
(Security Classification)

THE PRESIDENT'S
INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST
ISSUED BY THE
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
Ret'd from
Mrs. Roberts
12/10/63

30 NOVEMBER 1963
TOP SECRET

1. Venezuela
    a. Election campaigning ended at midnight, but boosters for the several candidates continued to mill about streets of Caracas in defiance of terrorist threats to shoot anyone who ventured out for the next three days.

    b. The terrorists, it seems, were all but drowned out by the carnival air.

    c. The FALN, meanwhile, is trying to bargain off Colonel Chenault for as high a price as it can, demanding variously release of all its comrades, of all women detained by the government, and of the six hijackers who have been returned from Trinidad to custody in Venezuela.

2. Sino-Soviet dispute
    a. The Chinese Communists will have nothing to do with the idea of bilateral talks with the Soviets under present circumstances.

    b. Chinese party Secretary General Teng Hsiao-ping, one of the select few in Peiping's ruling circle, recently told a group of visiting Latin Americans that such a meeting could accomplish nothing.

(Cont'd)
For The President Only - Top Secret

c. Teng put the issue of another meeting of world Communist parties even deeper into limbo by saying that Peiping would be in favor only when assured of the support of a majority of the world parties.

d. Moscow, for its part, has apparently stopped thinking about another gathering of world Communist party representatives.

e. The feelers it put out after the conclusion of the test-ban treaty were received coldly by some of the fraternal parties. They felt such a meeting could only make matters worse with the Chinese.

f. Indeed, Peiping saw this to be Moscow's purpose, and when the idea failed to take hold, the Chinese took it to be a setback for Khrushchev personally.

g. Their reaction to Khrushchev's subsequent call for a cessation of open argument was to press the offensive, and this they have been doing in roundly abusive terms since.

(Cont'd)
For The President Only - Top Secret

USSR
Komsomolsk
CHINA
Area of Main Map
KAMCHATKA
Impact Poid
Petropavlovsk
Submarine Ballistic Missile
"G-Class
PENINSULA
Klyuchi
Impact
Area
TOP SECRET DINAR
6 SEPTEMBER 1963
33881

3. USSR
    h. The forthcoming Afro-Asian visits by Chou En-lai and Chen Yi have awakened suspicions that the Chinese are in hot pursuit of a second Bandung-type conference--a more rewarding enterprise from their point of view.

    a. Yesterday and on Thursday, we detected what we believe to have been operational training launches of standard 350 nautical mile submarine-based ballistic missiles.

    b. Two and possibly four missiles were fired from submarines based in the Petropavlovsk area to the impact area at Klyuchi.

    c. Seven similar instances have been detected previously this year, and there may have been others. (INTERCEPTS)

4. Kenya - Communist Bloc
    a. The Soviet Bloc will soon gain an important propaganda outlet in Nairobi, communications hub for East Africa.

    b. Plans are for a state-controlled news agency to be set up by the Kenyan government when it

(Cont'd)
For The President Only - Top Secret

achieves independence on 12 December. This will fall under the jurisdiction of communications minister Oneko, who has well developed contacts within the Soviet Bloc.

c. TASS has already agreed to equip the new agency, and Kenyan requests for further financial and technical help are being discussed in Prague and Moscow.

d. Kenyan journalists have been training in Prague and, on return, will find ready employment in the new agency.

5. Czechoslovakia-USSR
    a. Czech President Novotny returned from Moscow on Thursday after signing a renewal (for another 20 years) of the treaty of friendship and mutual assistance.

    b. He apparently got little else out of Khrushchev. The final communique was conspicuously cool.

    c. There were no Soviet concessions, nor were there the usual references to Czech "progress" or to public support for Novotny's leadership.

For The President Only - Top Secret

6. South Vietnam
    a. The first suicide by burning to occur under the new regime was witnessed today by bystanders at a crowded intersection in Saigon where a young girl went up in flames.

    b. A note she left behind said she was protesting the war of Vietnamese against Vietnamese. At the intersection are three villas which house the ICC delegations.

    c. There were no Buddhist overtones.

    d. Some think the Viet Cong encouraged her, but if they did, they did not write her script. They would have said it is the Americans who are fighting the Vietnamese.

For The President Only - Top Secret

BURMA
CHINA
THAI
VIETNAM
THAILAND
PHIL
ETNAM.
Quang Tri
Hue
South Vietnam
ARMY CORPS BOUNDARIES
Nang
Quang Nam
AOS
Corps
Quang Ngai
II Corps
Kontum
Pleiku
An Khe
Qui Nhon
Cheo Reo
CAMBODIA
“ông Cau
Tuy Hoa
Ban Me Thuot
Nha Trang
III Corps Da Lat
“Loc Ninh
PHNOM PENH
Tay
Ninh
Phan Rang
Phuoc Vịnh
Isle de
Phu Quoc,
Chầu Phụ
Corps
Rach Gia
My Tho
Can Tho
SAIGON
Phan Thiet
SOUTH
CHINA
SEA
Capital Military District
Vung Tau
จ
GULF
OF
SIAM
Quan Long
(Ca Mau
Bac Lieu
SECRET
STATUTE MILES
150
33782

NOTES
A. South Vietnam
Plans are now afoot to shuffle South Vietnam's Corps commanders so that General Khanh, considered by General Harkins to be the best of the lot, will take over in the crucial delta (IV Corps) area. General Dinh, the ambitious Minister of Security, is still resisting pressure to relinquish command of the III Corps area, and is not involved in the current shuffle.

B. Cuba-USSR
There are about 8,000 Soviets in Cuba, 3,000 of these military, according to a bloc official in close touch with Soviets in Havana. The figures are close to our own estimate of 4,000 to 7,000. Some withdrawals continue.

C. Cambodia-Vietnam
Sihanouk seems to feel that cutting off his nose to spite his face was not enough. Now he says he will formally recognize North Vietnam if the US does not silence the Khmer Serei radio. South Vietnam will cut Cambodia's primary access to international markets via the Mekong river if he does. (INTERCEPT)

D. Indonesia-Cambodia
Sukarno apparently plans to go to Cambodia on an official visit following his trip to Manila. The Cambodian ambassador in Djakarta has advised Phnom Penh that Sukarno plans to leave for Manila on 6 December and directly from there for Phnom Penh on the 10th. He will stay three days. (INTERCEPT)

(Cont'd)
For The President Only - Top Secret

E. Coal and Steel Community
Coal and Steel community members at their next meeting on Monday will probably vote to raise community steel tariffs by an average of nine percent. This would bring the tariffs of each member into line with Italy's, the highest in the community. Only the Dutch oppose the idea.

F. British Guiana - Cuba
GIMPEX, trading arm and source of funds for Jagan's party, has worked out a deal to supply the country's major electric utility next year with fuel oil from Cuba. Texaco and Esso have been the traditional suppliers.

G. Brazil-US
A press report from Rio cites "well informed sources" to the effect that Goulart plans soon to invite Mrs. Kennedy to visit Brazil so that Brazil can pay her the honors which it had planned to render the late President.

H. Cuba-Morocco
A three-man Cuban delegation is on its way to Morocco to try to patch up relations broken by Morocco because of Cuba's assistance to the Algerians in their border war. (INTERCEPTS)

For The President Only - Top Secret

DOCUMENT OF INTEREST
The effect in France of the President's death.

For The President Only - Top Secret
