177-10001-10060 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |
JFK Assassination System Date: 8/26/201
Identification Form

Agency Information
AGENCY: LBJ
RECORD NUMBER: 177-10001-10060
RECORD SERIES: NSF, COUNTRY FILE, CUBA, TDCS, VOL. I, BOX 32
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 12/18/1963
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS: CUBA
DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/02/1998
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS : DOC. #158
v9.1
HW 50955 DocId:32262900 Page 1

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
158

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/
(When Filled In) BACKGROUND USE ONLY
COUNTRY CUBA REPORT NO. TDCSDB-3/658,582
SUBJECT CUBAN GOVERNMENT POLICY TOWARDS PRESIDENT JOHNSON'S ADMINISTRATION
DATE DISTR. 18 DECEMBER 1963
PRECEDENCE ROUTINE
DATE OF INFO. LATE NOVEMBER 1963 REFERENCES IN 82930
PLACE & 16 DECEMBER 1963
DATE ACQ.
APPRAISAL FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.
SOURCE A HIGH-LEVEL CUBAN DIPLOMAT IN WESTERN EUROPE WHO HAS BEEN A FAIRLY RELIABLE
REPORTER OF POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC INFORMATION.

1. FIDEL CASTRO WAS VERY UPSET OVER THE CHANGE IN THE UNITED
STATES ADMINISTRATION BROUGHT ABOUT BY PRESIDENT KENNEDY'S ASSASSINATION.
THE TOP CUBAN LEADERSHIP WAS SURE PRESIDENT KENNEDY WOULD NOT INVADE
CUBA AND THEY WERE CONVINCED THAT THE POLICY OF HIS ADMINISTRATION
FOR ECONOMIC BLOCKADE AND INTERNAL SUBVERSION AGAINST CUBA WOULD
NOT OVERTHROW THE RÉGIME.

2. THE PRESENT POLICY OF THE CUBAN GOVT., ON ORDERS FROM CASTRO,
IS NOT TO ATTACK PRESIDENT JOHNSON IN PUBLIC OR DO ANYTHING TO
IRRITATE HIM. ACCORDING TO CUBAN GOVT. LEADERS, CASTRO WANTS TO
WAIT AND SEE WHAT PRESIDENT JOHNSON SAYS AND DOES ABOUT CUBA,

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/
STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACS1 NAVY
STATE/DIR AIR
REPCINCLANT
BACKGROUND USE ONLY
JCS SECDEF NSA
I&NS.
NIC XXXXXXAY!
TREASURY.
ONE
OCR
GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification
ORR XXXXXB
EXO
TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
FORM 1K 10-62
OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS. (15-20)
HW 50955 DocId: 32282900 Page 2

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY
(When Filled In) IN 82930
TDCS DB-3/658, 582
PAGE

AND GIVE HIM AN OPPORTUNITY TO IMPROVE, IF HE FEELS SO INCLINED,
RELATIONS BETWEEN THE TWO COUNTRIES.
FIELD DISSEM: CINCLANT.
(END OF MESSAGE)

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY
HW 50955 DocId: 32282900 Page 3
