177-10002-10103 [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

JFK Assassination System Date: 3/6/2018
Identification Form

Agency Information
AGENCY: LBJ
RECORD NUMBER: 177-10002-10103
RECORD SERIES: NSF, INTELLIGENCE BRIEFINGS, 11/23/63-12/5/63, BOX 1
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: THE PRESIDENT'S INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST
DATE: 11/23/1963
PAGES: 15
SUBJECTS: INTELLIGENCE REPORT
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; Mandatory Review Material
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/12/1997
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: DOC. #1

TOP SECRET
(Security Classification)
CONTROL NO. CSC-NLJ-063/95B
COPY 2 OF

Handle Via
COMINT
Channels

Access to this document will be restricted to those approved for the following specific activities:

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
Unauthorized Disclosure Subject to Criminal Sanctions

TOP SECRET
(Security Classification)

THE PRESIDENT'S
INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST
ISSUED BY THE
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

23 NOVEMBER 1963
TOP SECRET

1. South Vietnam
    a. Vietnamese Communist efforts to discredit the new Saigon regime stayed in high gear this week.

    b. The number of armed attacks was off from the high of the previous week but still some 50% above the year's weekly average.

    c. These attacks have been, for the most part, small-scale efforts directed against the government's paramilitary forces in the villages. They have been designed more for their psychological impact than for immediate military gain.

    d. A high volume of messages on Viet Cong military and political communications nets indicates a probable continuation of this effort.

    e. The new government is responding by stepping up its own military operations. It is also setting about the hard job of revamping the Diem government apparatus and harnessing broader popular support for the war effort.

    f. The generals have been dealing fairly effectively with

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

VENEZUELA

++++ Selected railroad

200 Miles

2. Venezuela
    their new responsibilities. There are, however, a few signs of dissension within this group and between it and civilian politicians.

    g. One of the more ambitious and troublesome figures is the able but opportunistic General Ton That Dinh, the new Minister of Security. He has been travelling about the country spreading the idea that the coup was largely his doing and seems bent on developing his own independent base of power. He is a man to watch.

    h. The new regime has also embarked on a purge of high military officers who sided with Diem during the Buddhist crisis and failed to get on the right side soon enough. (INTERCEPTS)

    a. The death toll from the terrorist outburst in Caracas last Tuesday and Wednesday now stands at about 30.

    b. This is the high water mark thus far in the campaign of the Castro-supported Communist extremists to disrupt the national elections a week from tomorrow.

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

    c. The Betancourt government has struck back hard. Its new unified command over the security forces, set up at US urging, passed this initial test with flying colors.

    d. At least 500 extremists were arrested and the round-up is still going on. Their removal will hamper the Communist drive against elections in major cities like Caracas.

    e. We now expect the elections to be held on schedule, a considerable achievement under the circumstances. The elections will be followed, however, by a Communist effort to prevent the March inauguration of the victor.

    f. The rub here is that none of the presidential candidates commands President Betancourt's considerable assets for dealing successfully with the harsh realities of Venezuelan politics. The constitution prevents Betancourt from succeeding himself.

    g. In the background, as always, looms the military, which could intervene if the president-elect shows signs of being soft on communism.

For The President Only - Top Secret

CUBA
Surface-to-Air Missile (SAM) Sites

3. USSR-Cuba
    a. In the past week we intercepted Cuban military messages which show that Cuban interpreters are now posted at several surface-to-air missile (SAM) sites on the island.

    b. We think this means that on-site training of Cubans has begun on schedule. Field training is to last six months, after which the SAM system may be turned over to Castro.

    c. In the past month some 1,500 Soviets arrived in Cuba. Most of these were probably SAM experts, sent to monitor the training.

    d. Prior to their coming, we had detected no more than a few hundred Soviet military personnel entering Cuba since the October crisis last year.

    e. We estimate that at least 15,000, and probably closer to 18,000, have been withdrawn in the intervening 13 months, leaving, very roughly, 4,000 to 7,000. Those remaining are for the most part advisors whose main functions are to train and supervise Cubans in the use of weapons turned over to them.

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

COMMUNICATION ROUTES BETWEEN
WEST GERMANY AND BERLIN

Railroad
Canal
Autobahn Road
Air Corridor
Control Points for Allied Traffic:
A Allied
Soviet
Interzonal Border Crossing Points:
Δ East
Δ West

4. Berlin
    f. All Soviet weapons introduced into Cuba last year have been withdrawn or turned over to the Cubans. The only significant exception is the SAM system. (Includes INTERCEPTS)

    a. We have had an indication that Soviet harassment of Allied access routes to West Berlin will shift this weekend to the air corridors.

    b. The Soviet man at the Berlin air traffic control center told the Allied representatives yesterday that Soviet transports would be using the air corridors for brief flights during the next five weekends.

    c. Moscow has tried on a number of past occasions to assert its right to restrict Allied use of the air corridors. In early 1962, the Soviets attempted to reserve "blocks" of air space for their own use. They have since demanded that Western flights stay between stipulated altitudes, that we file flight plans in advance and provide prior notice of border-crossing times.

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

5. Iraq-Syria-UAR
    d. This sort of harassment stopped in the spring of 1962 when Soviet leaders became convinced that the US was interested in a serious discussion of a Berlin settlement. Moscow may hope that the threat of more of this sort of harassment will jog the US into talks on Berlin.

    a. It now appears that President Arif's role in last Monday's coup in Baghdad may have been virtually that of a bystander.

    b. According to our latest information, Arif was wakened early that morning and given five minutes to join up. Tahir Yahya, now prime minister, was reportedly the organizer.

    c. Whatever Arif's role may have been, the coup was primarily an effort by the Iraqi Army to curtail the activities of the extreme wing of the Baath Party. The Baath is an Arab nationalist political organization, active throughout the Arab world, which has been ruling Iraq and Syria.

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

    d. The coup group has not thrown all Baathists out of the government; there are party members in the new cabinet.

    e. Syrian Baathists have welcomed this retention of their Iraqi brothers. Their attitude springs from the recognition that the Baath in Syria cannot stay afloat without support from Iraq. Even so, we hear talk of coup plotting in Damascus.

    f. The reaction of Nasir's Egypt, which passionately desires to see the Baath go under, has been exactly the opposite. Cairo has been backing off its all-out support for the coup ever since the new cabinet was announced. (Includes INTERCEPTS)

For The President Only - Top Secret

SOVIET EXTENDED RANGE IMPACT AREAS

TOP SECRET
DINAR

A. NOTES
USSR New activity involving Soviet range instrumentation ships in the Pacific appears to be forthcoming. Three instrumentation ships left Petropavlovsk 12 days ago and are apparently headed for the more distant Pacific impact area, 6,500 miles from Tyuratam. We are looking for extended range ICBM tests but we do not exclude a space event. There has so far been no announcement closing the area. (INTERCEPTS)

B. Congo-USSR Soviet embassy personnel have not yet left Leopoldville, but their departure is expected momentarily. They were ordered out of the country after the Congolese turned up good documentary evidence of their complicity in anti-government plots. One of the items taken off a Soviet diplomat the other day was a letter from an anti-Adoula leader now in Brazzaville asking for funds and arms to overthrow the Leopoldville government.

C. Britain The Labor Party scored again in the Dundee West by-election Thursday, increasing its 1959 majority of 719 to a thumping 4,955. Heartened by this, Labor is now pushing for general elections at once. Prime Minister Home is not likely to accede.

D. Ecuador The military junta which has run Ecuador since July may be about to come unstuck. We have a report that one of the less savory members of the group, air force Colonel Freiles, will try to take over full control this weekend. We are not sure of the reliability of this report, but Freiles is known to have been making motions in this direction.

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

SOVIET EARTH SATELLITE VEHICLES - COSMOS SERIES
1962-1963
SECRET

| Cosmos (Sputnik) | LAUNCH DATE (GMT) | LAUNCH SITE | PERIOD (MINUTES) | APOGEE (N.M.) | PERIGEE (N.M.) | ORBITAL INCLINATION | STATUS |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Cosmos 1 (Sputnik 13) | 16 Mar '62 12:00:00 (EST.) | Kapustin Yar | 96.35 | 529 | 117 | 49° | Decayed 25 May '62 |
| Cosmos 2 (Sputnik 14) | 6 Apr '62 1715:18 | Kapustin Yar | 102.5 | 842 | 115 | 49° | Decayed 19-20 Aug '63 |
| Cosmos 3 (Sputnik 15) | 24 Apr '62 0400:12 | Kapustin Yar | 93.8 | 389 | 124 | 49° | Decayed 17 Oct '62 |
| Cosmos 4 (Sputnik 16) | 26 Apr '62 1002:56 | Tyuratam | 90.6 | 178 | 161 | 65° | Recovered 29 Apr 62 |
| Cosmos 5 (Sputnik 17) | 28 May '62 0259:49 | Kapustin Yar | 102.75 | 865 | 110 | 49° | Decayed 2 May '63 |
| Cosmos 6 (Sputnik 18) | 30 June '62 1600:00 (EST.) | Kapustin Yar | 90.6 | 194 | 148 | 49° | Decayed 8 Sept '62 |
| Cosmos 7 (Sputnik 19) | 28 July '62 0918:30 | Tyuratam | 90.1 | 199 | 113 | 65° | Recovered 1 Aug '62 |
| Cosmos 8 (Sputnik 22) | 18 Aug '62 0500:00 (EST.) | Kapustin Yar | 92.93 | 326 | 138 | 49° | Decayed 17 Aug '63 |
| Cosmos 9 (Sputnik 26) | 27 Sept '62 0940:00 | Tyuratam | 90.9 | 111 | 191 | 65° | Recovered 1 Oct '62 |
| Cosmos 10 (Sputnik 27) | 17 Oct '62 0900:01 (EST.) | Tyuratam | 90.2 | 205 | 113 | 65° | Recovered 21 Oct '62 |
| Cosmos 11 (Sputnik 28) | 20 Oct '62 0655:00 (EST.) | Kapustin Yar | 96.1 | 497 | 132 | 49° | Decayed 6 June '63 |
| Cosmos 12 (Sputnik 32) | 22 Dec '62 0924:40 | Tyuratam | 90.45 | 243 | 114 | 65° | Recovered 30 Dec '62 |
| Cosmos 13 (Sputnik 34) | 21 Mar '63 0830:00 | Tyuratam | 89.77 | 182 | 111 | 64°.58" | Recovered 29 Mar '63 |
| Cosmos 14 (Sputnik 36) | 13 Apr '63 1059:59 | Kapustin Yar | 92.1 | 276 | 143 | 48° 57" | Decayed 29 Aug '63 |
| Cosmos 15 (Sputnik 37) | 22 Apr '63 0829:58 | Tyuratam | 89.77 | 200 | 93 | 65° | Recovered 27 April '63 |
| Cosmos 16 (Sputnik 38) | 28 Apr '63 0850:00 (EST.) | Tyuratam | 90.4 | 218 | 112 | 65° 01" | Recovered 5 May '63 |
| Cosmos 17 (Sputnik 39) | 22 May '63 0300:00 (EST.) | Kapustin Yar | 94.8 | 425 | 140 | 49° | In orbit, silent since 31 May '63 |
| Cosmos 18 (Sputnik 40) | 24 May '63 0929:58 | Tyuratam | 89.44 | 163 | 113 | 65° 01" | Recovered 2 June '63 |
| Cosmos 19 (Sputnik 43) | 6 Aug '63 0600:00 (EST.) | Kapustin Yar | 92.2 | 280 | 146 | 49° | In orbit, transmitting |
| Cosmos 20 (Sputnik 44) | 18 Oct '63 0830:00 | Tyuratam | 89.55 | 168 | 111 | 65° | Recovered 26 Oct '63 |
| Failure | 24 Oct '63 | Kapustin Yar |  |  |  |  |  |
| Cosmos 21 (Sputnik 46) | 1 Nov '63 0623:39 | Tyuratam | 88.5 | 124 | 105 | 64° 50" | Decayed 14 Nov '63 |
| Cosmos 22 (Sputnik 47) | 16 Nov '63 1034:25 | Tyuratam | 90.3 | 211 | 111 | 64°56" | Recovered 22 Nov '63 |

E. Thailand Prime Minister Sarit, who suffers from an incurable liver disease, is failing. Doctors attending him, including one of our own, give him no more than six months more. Sarit has attempted to arrange for an orderly succession when he does go. The chances of this are not good; Thai politicians and military figures are already jostling one another for position.

F. USSR Cosmos 22, launched a week ago, was recovered yesterday. It is the eleventh unmanned satellite to be recovered. All recoverable satellites have been launched from Tyuratam, the main Soviet missile test center, and recovered after three to ten days aloft. A series of non-recoverable satellites has been fired from Kapustin Yar.

(See Chart)
(INTERCEPTS)

For The President Only - Top Secret
