177-10001-10061

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 8/26/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: LBJ
RECORD NUMBER: 177-10001-10061
RECORD SERIES: NSF, COUNTRY FILE, CUBA, TDCS, VOL. 1, BOX 32
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 12/13/1963
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS: CUBA
DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/02/1998
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: DOC. #170

HW 50955 DocId:32282901 Page 1

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C Secs.
793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/
CONTROLLED DISSEM/BACKGROUND USE ONLY
COUNTRY CUBA
REPORT NO. TDCS DB-3/658,469
SUBJECT ALERT STATUS OF CUBAN DIPLOMATIC
MISSIONS, AS RESULT OF THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY
DATE DISTR. 13 DECEMBER 1963
PRECEDENCE ROUTINE
DATE OF INFO. 9 DECEMBER 1963
PLACE & DATE ACQ. 9 DECEMBER 1963
REFERENCES IN 79459
APPRAISAL FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE A SENIOR CUBAN DIPLOMAT WHO IS AN ASTUTE OBSERVER AND HAS DEMON-
STRATED MATURITY, DISCERNMENT, AND RELIABILITY IN HIS PAST
REPORTING.

1. ABOUT 2 DAYS AFTER THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT
JOHN F. KENNEDY, CUBAN DIPLOMATIC MISSIONS ABROAD BEGAN TO
RECEIVE A SERIES OF MESSAGES PLACING THEM ON A SPECIAL ALERT
STATUS. THESE MESSAGES WERE OBVIOUSLY DUE TO APPREHENSION
BY THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT THAT THE CIRCUMSTANCES SURROUNDING
THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY MIGHT LEAD TO HOSTILE
ACTIVITY DIRECTED AGAINST THE MISSIONS. THE DIPLOMATIC
MISSIONS, AMONG OTHER THINGS, WERE EXHORTED TO EXERCISE
EXTREME VIGILANCE, TO MOUNT A NIGHT-AND-DAY WATCH OF MISSION
PREMISES, TO BE CERTAIN THAT THERE WERE "NO COMPROMISING

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/
CONTROLLED DISSEM/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
FORM 10-62
OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

HW 50955 DocId:32282901 Page 2

CLASSIFICATION-DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/
CONTROLLED DISSEM/BACKGROUND USE ONLY TDCSDB-3/658,469

DOCUMENTS ON THE PREMISES," AND TO BE ON GUARD AGAINST HOSTILE
PROVOCATIONS.

2. ONE CHIEF OF MISSION, WHO, FOLLOWING HIS USUAL
PRACTICE, REQUESTED BY TELEPHONE PERMISSION TO ACCEPT A
LONG-STANDING INVITATION TO VISIT A COUNTRY FRIENDLY TO
CUBA, WAS TOLD THAT HE MUST FORMALLY SUBMIT HIS REQUEST
BY CABLE. HE DID SO ON 29 NOVEMBER, BUT IT WAS NOT UNTIL
6 DECEMBER THAT HE RECEIVED THE AUTHORITY TO QUIT HIS POST.

3. AS OF 9 DECEMBER THERE HAD BEEN NO INDICATION FROM
HAVANA THAT THE ALERT ORDER WAS TO BE CONSIDERED REVOKED.

4. FIELD DISSEM: CINCLANT.

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/
CONTROLLED DISSEM/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

HW 50955 DocId:32282901 Page 3
