178-10003-10001 [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]
JFK Assassination System Date: 8/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: ROCKCOM
RECORD NUMBER: 178-10003-10001

RECORD SERIES: ASSASSINATION FILE

AGENCY FILENUMBER: ASSASSINATION MATERIALS--MISC. ROCK/CIA (9)

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO:

TITLE: MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD, SPECIAL GROUP MEETING 20 SEPTEMBER 1962

DATE: 09/20/1962
PAGES: 1

SUBJECTS:
ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
CIA
CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS

DOCUMENT TYPE: MEMORANDUM
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/15/1993

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS:

vol 84
HW 50955 DocId:32204614 Page 1

178-10003-10001

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD OF SPECIAL GROUP MEETING OF 20 SEPTEMBER 1962

Its use over Kamchatka was disapproved. General Carter raised the possibility of using it against Cuba, and State appeared enthusiastic. (General Carter does not feel that any operations which DD/R has been considering have been prejudiced by this discussion.)

There was discussion of FIRE FLY.
There was some discussion of the balloon operation over Cuba, but in the meantime, State is most anxious that it be arranged for the exiles to do this and that they not come running back to Miami immediately. The question was also raised as to whether the exiles could still obtain helium.

The next ambassadorial counter-insurgency team will go to Africa. We are to drum up a candidate. The chairman will be Carl Hummelsine.

In presenting the North Vietnam plan next week, CIA is to include the requirement for an overflight to gather radar information. In connection with the whole North Vietnam operation, State seems determined to have no overflights over Laos and no involvement of Chinese Nationalist aircraft or personnel except possibly Chinese pilots in sterile aircraft. State plans to balance very carefully the risks versus the potential gains. DD/1 is to prepare the same sort of assessment on the North Vietnam operation as on Tibet.

The Air Libya item was approved as presented.

The support to the Appa Party in Peru approved as presented.

On Fiber, to be acted on next week, Secretary Rusk is absolutely firm on getting the Indiana cranked in.

SECRET

HW 50955 DocId: 32204614 Page 2

General Carter briefed the meeting on the provision of the security advice to the President of Colombia.

General Carter read the CIA memo on CINCARIB communications problems. The meeting expressed delighted surprise at our capability. We are now a full-fledged member of the State - Defense group which is considering this problem.

On Nicaragua, a memo is to be prepared for the Acting DCI describing the degree of Cuban involvement, particularly in the shipment of arms to Nicaragua by way of Honduras. This memo will also cover Communist infiltration of student and labor and a description of CIA activities in these same fields.

There was a long discussion of the role of USIB in recommending countries to be placed on the counter-insurgency list. Full account to be gotten from Tom Parrot.

There was discussion of the Southeast Asia status report, concentrating on strategic hamlets, the Montagnards, and the bad press situation in Saigon.

General Carter called attention to the memoranda on the North Vietnam Laos. The question came up as to whether there was an SNIE presence in the works on this. This subject is to be kept current, especially in view of the 6 October deadline.

State and Defense announced that they had now sent the counter-insurgency doctrine papers to everyone in the field.

There was a suggestion that it was time for a progress report on South Vietnam intelligence capability.

SECRET
