178-10002-10185 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

JFK Assassination System Date: 8/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: ROCKCOM
RECORD NUMBER: 178-10002-10185
RECORD SERIES: ASSASSINATION FILES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: A-I(G) CIA CORRES--ASSASSINATIONS (2)

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: MURRAY, WILLIAM J.
TO: INSPECTOR GENERAL
TITLE: QUESTIONABLE ACTIVITIES
DATE: 01/17/1975
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS:
*   CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS
*   ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: Consulted
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/03/1995

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS:

v9.1

HW 50955 DocId: 32276339

Attachments: 1781000210186, 187, 188.

17 January 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR: The Inspector General

VIA: Deputy Director for Operations

SUBJECT: Questionable Activities

1.  In 1960 the writer developed and recruited Jose Raul Martinez Nunez (201-281382), a Cuban national and a ranking Cubana Airline pilot.

2.  Mr. Martinez requested an emergency meeting on 18 July 1960 to advise that he was the likely choice to pilot a chartered Cubana Airline flight from Havana, Cuba to Prague to pick up Raul Castro Ruz and his official party. On 20 July Mr. Martinez reported that the flight to Prague was scheduled for 21 July and that he would definitely pilot the aircraft. Headquarters and appropriate field stations along the flight route were advised of the flight schedule; requirements were requested.

3.  On the morning of 21 July Headquarters sent a TOP SECRET RYBAT OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE cable (DIRECTOR 40923 OUT 98941, 21 July 1960) to the Havana Station advising that "possible removal of top three leaders is receiving serious consideration at Headquarters" and requested the Station at its option to contact Mr. Martinez and determine his willingness to cooperate in arranging an accident during the return trip from Prague. The cable said that Headquarters would be willing to offer a payment after successful completion of $10,000.00 or a reasonable amount in excess of that.

4.  Mr. James Hoel, CCS Havana, instructed the writer to meet with Mr. Martinez and make known our interests. The writer contacted Mr. Martinez and arranged an emergency meeting which took place in Mr. Martinez' personal vehicle while driving to the airport. Mr. Martinez said he would take a calculated risk but limited the possibilities which could pass as an accident. At one point Mr. Martinez asked for assurance that in event of his death the U.S. Government would see that his two sons were given a College education. This assurance was given orally. On returning to the Station the writer was advised that an OPI cable (DIRECTOR 40965 OUT 99096, 21 July 1960) had been received at the Station directing the Station to disregard the earlier instructions.

5.  Mr. Martinez was debriefed by the writer after his return from Prague. He reported that he had no opportunity to arrange an accident such as we had discussed prior to his departure. I do not recall telling Mr. Martinez that the original instructions had been changed and I am inclined to believe I made no reference to the new instructions which had been received after Mr. Martinez' departure from Havana.

6.  Mr. Martinez defected in early December 1960. I saw him once in early 1961 in Miami, Florida where he had taken up residence. I do not know if any other Station officers were knowledgeable of this incident although it is probable that Mr. Arthur Avignon, DCOS (now retired and living in the Washington area) may have read the pertinent cables.

William J. Murray
C/LA/Narcotics

Attached:

DIRECTOR 40923, 21 July 1960 TOP SECRET
DIRECTOR 40965, 21 July 1960 TOP SECRET
HAVA 5396 (IN 28071), 22 July 1960 SECRET

HW 50955 DocId:32276339
