```markdown
178-10004-10420

[2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 8/27/2011

Agency Information
AGENCY: ROCKCOM
RECORD NUMBER: 178-10004-10420
RECORD SERIES: ROCKEFELLER COMMISSION FILES INVENTORY
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: ROCK

Document Information
ORIGINATOR:
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: INVENTORY OF ROCKEFELLER COMMISSION FILES
DATE: 06/00/1975
PAGES: 263
SUBJECTS: ROCKEFELLER COMMISSION
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Top Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B; 1C
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/16/1993
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: Inventory of files showing file codes and contents of codes.

v9.1

NW 50955 DocId: 32105598 Page 1

178-10004-10420

Documents Reviewed by CIA Personnel

Form of Document Correspondents or Title Date
Letter and attached E.H. Knoche to Robert Olsen 13 May 1975
"adendum"
Letter and attached E.H. Knoche to Robert Olsen 7 May 1975
"comments"
Letter and attached Letter: E.H. Knoche to Robert Olsen 29 Apr 1975
report on memo "Memorandum by Paul Hoch Concerning
CIA Activities and the Warren Commission n.d.
Investigation"
Report Fitness report on individual 26 May 1964
Routing Sheet and Routing and record sheet (18 March
attached memo 1964) and attached memo: "Meeting
with the Warren Commission on 12 March
1964"
Memo Acting Chief, Special Operations 24 Apr 1975
Group to Deputy Chief, Operations
Staff
Dispatch Subj: Countering Criticism of the 1 Apr 1975
Warren Report
Cover note and "NPIC Analysis of Zapruder Filming n.d.
transmitted material of John F. Kennedy Assassination"
(handwritten notes)
Memo "Constitutional and Legal Basis for 17 Jan 1962
So-called Court Activities of the
Central Intelligence Agency"
Memo To Director, CIA, "Legal Basis for 15 Jan 1962
Cold-War Activities"
Letter E.H. Knoche to David W. Belin 13 May 1975

This document contains
Confidential and Secret
Classified Information

NW 50955 DocId:32105598 Page 2

ORGANIZATION OF THE FILES
OF THE COMMISSION ON CIA ACTIVITIES
WITHIN THE UNITED STATES

The files have been left in the same basic organization
as they were maintained by the lawyers during the
investigation. The most helpful information in finding
specific documents in the files is, therefore, an understanding
of what areas were investigated by each team of lawyers.

Belin-Gray-Greene Files (B-G-G). The files of
the executive director and his two special assistants are
of a general nature, focusing on no particular portion
of the investigation.

Schwarzer-Manfredi Files (S-M). This team was
responsible for Chapters 14, 15 and 18 of the
Report, on Watergate, domestic activities of the
Directorate of Operations and CIA file systems.

Baker-Weidner Files. This team was responsible for
Chapters 9, 10 and 11 and the federal portion of 17 of the
Report, on mail intercepts, inter-agency domestic intelli-
gence evaluation, CHAOS and CIA aid to other federal
agencies.

Olsen-Roethe Files. (O-R). This team was responsible
for Chapters 12, 13, 16 and 19 and the state and local portion
of 17, on the Office of Security, the Directorate of Science
and Technology, the Kennedy assassination and CIA assistance
to state and local agencies.

Gellhorn-Cargill-Hardy Files (G-C-H). This team was
responsible for Parts II and III of the Report, on the
legal authority for the CIA and its internal and external
controls.

NW 50955 DocId: 32105598 Page 3

Originals
Doc. removed by
Belin
Compartmented Files
B-G-G (II-G) # A CIA Correspondence (COMINT-TOP SECRET)
Doc removed by
CIA Relations with Howard Hughes (BYEMAN-SECRET).
B-G-G (IV-B)
Assessment of Intelligence Leaks (BYEMAN-TOP SECRET)
B-G-G (IV-C)
CIA Organizational History in Brief (BYEMAN-SECRET)
B-G-G (IV-Q)
Development and Testing of Intelligence Related
B-G-G (IV-R)
Equipment (COMINT-SECRET)
S/M (I-K) Manfredi Request of 21 April (COMINT-SECRET)
B-W (IV-F) #F&G Assistance to Other Agencies (BYEMAN TK - TOP SECRET)
O/R (II-A) Incidental U.S. Communications Intercept (COMINT-SECRET)
LONGSHAFT (COMINT-SECRET)
O/R (II-B)
Surveillance of Newsmen
O/R (IV-TT) #B, D, E, L, Q & T
(TK - COMINT - TOP SECRET)
Cube
G-C-H (IV F) NSC-NSCID'S (BYEMAN - COMINT - TOP SECRET)
G-C-H (IV-J) CIA Briefings to Congress (BYEMAN - TOP SECRET)

* all folders are
in Codeword safe
(# 2, Drawer 1)
* no compartmented files
were found in the copies.
(peace markers were copied)

NW 50955 DocId: 32105598 Page 4

ASSASSINATION FILES

I. First Delivery
A. Belin Request of 8 April 1975 -- Mongoose Documents
(TOP SECRET AND SECRET)
B. CIA Connections with Organized Crime (One Memo -- SECRET)
C. What Could Castro Have Known (SECRET) (One Memo)
D. Review of Dulles Chrono Re Kennedy Assassination
E. Sturgis Deposition (SECRET)
F. Project TAMA (SECRET)
G. CIA - Correspondence -- Assassination (CLASSIFIED)
H. CIA Relationship with Robert A. Maheu (SECRET)

I. Interviews re Assassinations (CLASSIFIED)
J. Correspondence -- Assassinations (CLASSIFIED)
K. Misc. Materials Assassination Attempt (CLASSIFIED)
L. Edward G. Lansdale Deposition (TOP SECRET)

II. Second Delivery
A. Chron -- Assassination (CLASSIFIED)
B. Trujillo I Originals (CLASSIFIED)
C. Gray Request of April 22 re Regulations Concerning Shipment
of Firearms, Etc. (SECRET)
D. Gray Request of May 12 for Documents from Dominican
Historical Papers Files (Trujillo II Originals) (CLASSIFIED)
E. Edward G. Lansdale Deposition (TOP SECRET) (Same as IL)
F. Deposition of L. Fletcher Prouty (SECRET)
G. Affidavits: (Lemnitzer and Dillon) SECRET

NW 50955 DocId: 32105598 Page 5

SECRET

Assassination Materials (Cont.)

III. Third Delivery
A. Miscellaneous (SECRET)
B. Castro Speeches
C. Interview Tapes

Copies have been processed with no
rearrangement, spot check reveals
discrepancies between the two sets
(in both directions)

NW 50955 DocId: 32105598 Page 6

Belin-Gray-Greene Files

I. Commission Meetings
(Each file contains access list, agenda and minutes)
A. January 13
B. January 20
C. January 27
D. February 3
E. February 10
F. February 17
G. February 24
H. March 3
I. March 10
J. March 17
K. March 24
L. March 31
M. April 7
N. April 14
O. April 21
P. April 28
Q. May 5-6
R. May 12-13
S. May 19, 20, 3, 21
T. May 27
U. June 2

NW 50955 DocId: 32105598 Page 7

B-G-G Files (Cont.)

II. General Files
A. Access List
B. Chron File - June 1975
C. Chron File - May 1975
D. Chron File - April 1975
E. Chron File - March 1975
F. Chron File - Jan 15 - Feb 28, 1975
G. CIA Correspondence - May 1975 (one Memo umbra)
H. CIA Correspondence - April 1975
I. CIA Correspondence - March 1975
J. CIA correspondence - February 1975
K. CIA Correspondence - January 1975
L. Classification
M. Correspondence - May 1975
N. Correspondence - April 1975
O. Correspondence - Jan-Mar 1975
P. Commissioners
Q. Guidelines for Investigation
R. Family Jewels
S. Final Report
T. Informants (Various witness lists)
U. Interviews

*No copies made.

NW 50955 DocId: 32105598 Page 8

B-G-G Files (Cont.)

II. General Files
W. Knoche Meetings
X. Memos to the File (Classified)
Y. Memoranda to the Commission
Z. Memoranda from the Staff
AA. Memoranda to Legal Staff
BB. Organization Charts (of the Commission)
CC. Notary Public Information
DD. Press (conference transcripts)
EE. Questions for Witnesses (Classified)
FF. Receipts
GG. Receipts for Transcripts
HH. Secrecy Agreements
II. Staff Meeting Minutes (CONFIDENTIAL)
JJ. Statement of understanding
KK. Subpoena Powers
LL. Timetables
MM. Waivers
NN. Access to presidential Libraries
OO. CIA and Other Agencies

*No copies made.

NW 50955 DocId: 32105598 Page 9

B-G-G Files (Cont.)

III. Persons Appearing Before the Commission
(waivers included)
A. Admiral George Anderson
B. James Angleton
C. Richard Bissell
D. David W. Blee
E. George R. Brewer
F. Robert D. Brown
G. McGeorge Bundy
H. Donald Chamberlain
I. Clark Clifford
J. William Cotter
K. William E. Colby
L. Patrick J. Coyne
M. William O. Cregar
N. Arnold Donahue
O. Norman Dorsen
P. C. Donald Dudley
Q. Richard Helms
R. Jason Horn
S. Lawrence R. Houston
T. Erich Isenstead
U. Thomas J. Karamessines
V. Clarence M. Kelley
W. Lyman B. Kirkpatrick, Jr.

NW 50955 DocId: 32105598 Page 10

B-G-G Files (Cont.)

III. Persons Appearing Before the Commission (Cont.)
X. Henry A. Kissinger
Y. Richard E. Kuh
Z. Charles K. Marcules
AA. Lee M. Martin
BB. John A. McCone
CC. Scott Miler
DD. Richard Ober
EE. Walter O'Brien
FF. Howard Olborn
GG. Sam Papich
HH. Charles F. Phelan
II. Admiral William F. Raborn
JJ. George Rocca
KK. Edward Sayle
LL. James R. Schlesinger
MM. Gordon M. Stewart
NN. Michael Tanes
OO. Ralph O. True
PP. John Warner
QQ. Alan P. White
RR. Laurence K. White

NW 50955 DocId: 32105598 Page 11

B-G-G Files (Cont.)

CONFIDENTIAL

IV. Miscellaneous
A. Official Secrets Act
B. CIA Relationships with Howard Hughes Organization
(SECRET - BYEMAN)
C. Assessment of Intelligence Leaks (TOP SECRET - BYEMAN)
D. FBI Report: Intelligence Activities Within the U.S. by
Foreign Governments (SECRET)
E. Project TAMA (One Memo and Four Tabs - All SECRET)
F. Soviet Use of Kidnapping (SECRET)
G. Project JMMOVE (Two SECRET Memos)
H. The Killiam Case (SECRET)
I. Nosenko (SECRET)
J. Miscellaneous (L) (Some SECRET)
K. Background Material on Oswald and Warren Commission (Some SECRET)
L. 15 April Belin Request for Info on Psychological Stress Evaluation
M. National Intelligence Daily
N. Documents Circulated
O. CIA Summaries
P. Loaned Documents (SECRET)
Q. CIA Organization History in Brief (SECRET - BYEMAN)
R. Development and Testing of Intelligence-Related Equipment
Overhead Photography Support to Other Government Agencies
(SECRET - COMINT)
S. Papers Re Cuba
T. Withholding of Evidence From the Warren Commission (SECRET)
U. Materials from Eva Daughtrey (SECRET)

*No copies made.

NW 50955 DocId: 32105598 Page 12

CONFIDENTIAL

B-G-G Files (Cont.)

IV. Miscellaneous (Cont.)
V. Administrative Matters
W. Applicants I
X. Applicants II
Y. Applicants III
Z. Interview with Judd McIlvaine

* No copies made.

NW 50955 DocId: 32105598 Page 13

CONFIDENTIAL

SCHWARZER-MANFREDI FILES

I. CIA Furnished Materials
A. OGC Memorandum (2/27/73) on Telephone Intercept
Operations (SECRET)
B. Folder on LPMFDLEY, Rental of Office Space for NSA
(SECRET-SENSITIVE)
C. Folder on Cover and Commercial Staff (Non-Official
Cover) (SECRET)
D. CIA Support to the Secret Service (1972 Democratic
Convention) (2 Memos, 1 of which is CONFIDENTIAL)
E. Cover and Commercial Staff Cover Support Provided Within
the United States (SECRET)
F. Master Keys for Foreign Hotels (SECRET-SENSITIVE)
G. White House Support (1 Memo & 3 Tabs - CONFIDENTIAL)
H. Meetings Between E. Howard Hunt and TSD Representatives
July 23, 1971 (CONFIDENTIAL)
I. HM NIECE (2 Memos - SECRET)
J. Alleged Break-in at HEW Offices, Miami (William Ledee)
(2 SECRET & 1 CONFIDENTIAL Memos)
K. Eleven Memos on Telephone Intercept for NSA (All are
classified, 4 are COMINT)
L. History of FR Division (seven instructions or notices
outlining the function of FRD) (8 Memos - SECRET)
M. Three notes from Helms' Chronological Files (All 3 are SECRET)
N. Report of the Working Group on Contacts with American
Business Firms (1972) (5 Memos - 4 of which are SECRET)
O. CIA Relation to U.S. Citizens Allegedly Involved in Narcotics
Trafficking Abroad (Summary and four tabs) SECRET
P. Narcotics Programs (Memo w/6 Tabs) (All SECRET)
Q. DCD Support to Joint Chiefs of Staff, May 13-14, 1975
(One memo - SECRET)
R. Puerto Rico (Two memos, SECRET)

NW 50955 DocId: 32105598 Page 14

CONFIDENTIAL

SCHWARZER-MANFREDI FILES

S. DDO Instructions (SECRET)
1. Restrictions on Operational Use of Certain Categories of
Individuals (SECRET)
2. Statement of Functions Cover and Commercial Staff SECRET
T. Procedures for Obtaining Alias Documents and Disguises
(Forms and instructions - 4 SECRET; 2 CONFIDENTIAL)
U. CIA Proprietaries (5 Memos - SECRET)
V. CIA Files (17 Memos & Documents - 2 SECRET; 11 CONFIDENTIAL)
W. DDO Officers (SECRET)
X. DCD (Interviews) - Manfredi 20 Mar 75 Memo - SECRET
(See list of documents at beginning of Tabs)
Y. Impact of Publicity and Investigations on DCD - 8 Apr 75
(One Memo - CONFIDENTIAL)
Z. Case 56300 (One Memo, SECRET)
AA. Manfredi Request of April 2 for 10 DCD Memos SECRET
BB. DCD Documents (Miscellaneous - (18 Documents - 12 of which are SECRET)

NW 50955 DocId: 32105598 Page 15

CONFIDENTIAL

S-M FILES

II. Interviews
A. George Critton (Cover and Commercial Staff)
(Notes, CONFIDENTIAL)
B. Stanley H. Gaines (FRD) (Typed memo and notes, SECRET)
C. Jackson Horton, (DCD) (Notes - SECRET)
D. E. Howard Hunt (Memo and notes, not classified)
E. Joel Keyes, CCS, (Notes, CONFIDENTIAL)
F. William Koehler, CCS (Notes, CONFIDENTIAL)
G. Walter O'Brien, FRD (Typed memo, TOP SECRET; notes, SECRET)
H. Robert S. Pritchard
1. Miscellaneous Correspondence
2. CIA Memo on Pritchard (SECRET)
3. Notes on Pritchard 201 File (SECRET)
4. Miscellaneous Publications on Pritchard
I. Edward Ryan, Division D (Notes and memo, TOP SECRET)
J. William Sturbitts, Miami Station (Notes, SECRET)
K. Watts and Stetson (Notes - SECRET)
L. Perrell J. Bringhurst, DCD (Notes, SECRET)

NW 50955 DocId: 32105598 Page 16

CONFIDENTIAL

S-M Files

Interviews (Cont.)

M. Seymour Bolten (Memo, CONFIDENTIAL)
N. James Ludlum (Memo and notes, CONFIDENTIAL)
O. Robert F. Bennett (Signed affidavit)
P. Charles Colson (Miscellaneous background information,
not classified)
Q. Erich Isenstead (Summary of testimony and notes, SECRET)
R. Thomas H. Karamessines (Outline of Testimony
TOP SECRET, Addendum to Testimony, and five CIA memos,
all but one classified)
S. Karl Wagner-Robert Cushman
1. Wagner Affidavit
2. Two memos on Cushman-Erlichman July 7, 1971
conversation
3. Cushman Watergate Testimony (SECRET)
4. Three memos on and transcript of July 22, 1971,
Hunt-Cushman conversation (all but first memo
SECRET)
T. Richard Helms (Notes, SECRET)

NW 50955 DocId: 32105598 Page 17

S-M Files

III. Miscellaneous Files
A. References (Watergate) (1 Memo - SECRET and 2. unclassified
lists)
B. Waivers (23)
C. Draft Report on Office of General Counsel, dated 11 April 1975
D. Schwarzer Chronological File
E. Manfredi Chronological File (15 Memos; 3 of which are SECRET)
F. Miscellaneous Handwritten Notes
G. Miscellaneous Office Files
H. Miscellaneous documents (6 Memos - 2 of which are SECRET and
1 CONFIDENTIAL)
I. Helms' Document Inspection (11 Memos - 3 of which are SECRET
and 1 CONFIDENTIAL)

NW 50955 DocId: 32105598 Page 18

S-M Files

IV. Depositions
A. David Henry Blee (Top Secret)
B. Seymour R. Bolten (Secret)
C. Peter Brown (Top Secret)
D. George A. Carver, Jr. (Secret)
E. William E. Colby (Two Vols.) (I - Top Secret; II - Secret)
F. Charles Colson (Secret)
G. Gen. Robert E. Cushman (Secret)
H. Peter D. Dyke (Secret)
I. John Erlichman (Top Secret)
J. Ramon Estabon Gonzales (Secret)
K. William J. Hood (Top Secret)
L. J. R. Horton (Secret)
M. John Pierce Kennedy (Top Secret)
N. Richard Arthur Krueger (Secret)
O. Martin Lukoskie (Secret)

NW 50955 DocId: 32105598 Page 19

S-M Files

IV. Depositions (Cont.)

P. Dr. Bernard M. Malloy (Secret)
Q. William E. Nelson (Secret)
R. Francis A. O'Malley (Secret)
S. Dr. Robert S. Pritchard
T. Edward Ryan (Top Secret)
U. L. M. Sternfield (Secret)
V. Shirley Ann Stetson & Albert H. Watts, Jr. (Secret)
W. William C. Sturbitts (Secret)
X. Karl Wagner (Secret)
Y. General Vernon Walters (Secret)
Z. Lawrence K. White (Secret)

Hearings before Senate Select Committee on Presidential Campaign Activities
AA. Eugeno Rolando Martinez, Dec. 10, 1973 (Confidential)
BB. Howard Hunt, Dec. 17, 1973 (Confidential)
CC. Hunt (cont.), Dec. 18, 1973 (Confidential)
DD. Richard Helms deposition (Top Secret)
EE. Richard Helms deposition (Top Secret)

NW 50955 DocId: 32105598 Page 20

S-M Files

V. Watergate Documents
Vol. I - Hunt (54 documents)
Vol. II - Mullen & Co. (13 documents)
Vol III - Ellsberg Profile (11 documents)
Vol IV - Miami Station (9 documents)
A. Senator Baker Report
B. Watergate Investigation Correspondence
(55 Memos and documents - 4 of which are SECRET)

NW 50955 DocId: 32105598 Page 21

Baker-Weidner Files

I. Depositions
A. Robert D. Brown, Jr. (TOP SECRET)
B. Bob Finch (SECRET)
C. E. Drexel Godfrey, Jr. (SECRET)
(with six exhibits)
D. William J. Hood (TOP SECRET)
E. George T. Kalaris (TOP SECRET)
F. Thomas Karamessines (TOP SECRET)
G. N. Scott Miler (TOP SECRET)
H. Richard Ober (Two Volumes, both TOP SECRET)
I. J. Edward Day, Lawrence O'Brien, Winton M. Blount,
House Committee on the Post Office and Civil Service,
May 7, 1975.

II. Miscellaneous Files
A. General Correspondence
(13 Memos - 1 of which is SECRET)
B. Howard Hunt Correspondence
(10 Memos)
C. Files Shown to Commission
(Two memos (one is SECRET)
D. Gregory P. Tschebtarioff
Correspondence and one SECRET Memo to File

NW 50955 DocId: 32105598 Page 22

CONFIDENTIAL

B-W Files

III. Robert Vesco
A. Vesco I
(16 Memos - 8 of which are SECRET)
B. Vesco II
Memo for the Commission (SECRET)
C. Vesco III
(5 Memos - 4 of which are CONFIDENTIAL)

IV. Other Federal Agencies
A. Weidner Request of May 12, 1975
Twelve memos (All but items 5, 6, and 12 CLASSIFIED)
(See list in folder)
B. Weidner Request of March 31, 1975
Four memos or letters (All but item 1 CLASSIFIED)
(See list in folder)
C. Agency Employees Detailed to White House and Federal Agencies,
1963-1975
(7 Memos - 1 SECRET; the others are Admin - Internal Use Only)
D. Project TWOFOLD
(15 Memos - 6 of which are SECRET)
E. International Police Services
(17 Memos, 13 of which are SECRET)
F. Agency Assistance to Other Agencies (Notebook)
Seven Tabs (See Table of Contents)
(Tabs D and E are SECRET, Tabs F and G are
BYEMAN, Tabs A, B and C are Admin-Internal Use Only).

NW 50955 DocId: 32105598 Page 23

CONFIDENTIAL

B-W Files

V. Intelligence Community Coordination
A. Richard Ober - IDIU/IEC
(11 Memos - 3 TOP SECRET; 4 SECRET; 2 CONFIDENTIAL)
B. James Angleton
(One memo for the file and two sets of notes (all SECRET)
C. Weidner Request of May 16, 1975
Copies of Angleton Notes (Admin - Internal Use Only)
D. Weidner Request of April 23, 1975
16 documents (All but #'s 8 and 16 classified)
E. Weidner Request of May 16, 1975
Two documents (#1 not classified, #2 CONFIDENTIAL)
F. IDIU, IEC, etc.
(18 Memos - 1 TOP SECRET; 10 SECRET; 2 CONFIDENTIAL)
G. PFIAB's IEC Request
(One memo, CONFIDENTIAL)

NW 50955 DocId: 32105598 Page 24

CONFIDENTIAL

B-W Files

VI. Mail Intercepts
A. Robert Crowley Affidavit (SECRET)
B. Interview Summary - James H. Kelly, Jr. (SECRET)
C. Interview Summary - June Elliott (SECRET)
D. Interview Summary - Russell F. Miller (SECRET)
E. Affidavit of Jerry L. Shinn (SECRET)
F. Interview Summary - James J. Angleton (SECRET)
G. Baker April 18, 1975, Request - HT LINGUAL
Four documents (1 TOP SECRET; 3 SECRET)
H. Weidner Request of May 13, 1975
(7 documents - 5 of which are SECRET)
I. MK SOURDOUGH, March 18, 1975 Request
(12 Documents - 9 of which are SECRET)
J. Project SRINDIAN
(6 Documents - 3 SECRET)
K. Project SETTER
(One Summary - SECRET - and two tabs - unclassified)
L. Project WESTPOINTER
(7 Memos - 4 of which are SECRET)
M. Baker Request for New York Mail Intercept Items
March 25, 1975
(68 Documents - 51 of which are SECRET)
N. Mail Intercept
(40 Documents of which 31 are SECRET)
O. Identifying People Telephoning Communist Countries Summary
and one Tab (both SECRET)
P. Legal Memos and Materials (all unclassified)
Q. Winton Blount (Memo to file, interview summary and telegram)
R. 1969 Inspector General Survey (TOP SECRET)
and Memo to the file (CONFIDENTIAL)

NW 50955 DocId: 32105598 Page 25

CONFIDENTIAL

B-W Files

VII. Operation CHAOS
A. William Hood (Two interview summaries, both SECRET)
B. Raymond Rocca (Interview Summary, Interview Outline and
Memo for the Record, all CLASSIFIED)
C. N. Scott Miler (Three interview summaries and one biography, all
CLASSIFIED; two diagrams, CONFIDENTIAL)
D. Robert Brown (Interview Summary and Biography, both SECRET)
E. LODESTAR Interview (One memo, SECRET)
F. George Kalaris (Interview, SECRET)
G. Richard Ober (Correspondence, Waivers, Proposed Questions
(SECRET), Notes (SECRET)
H. Ober Group MAG Comments
1. Three interview summaries (SECRET)
2. One document (SECRET)
3. Ten tabbed documents (all SECRET)
I. Alan White (Interview, SECRET)
J. Charles Marcules (Interview and Interview Summary, both SECRET)
K. John Stein (Interview Summary, SECRET)
L. MPLODESTAR (Summary and one tab, both SECRET)
M. March 14, 1975 Document Request
(54 items - CLASSIFIED)
N. Weidner Request for 13 items, dated March 17, 1975
(All CLASSIFIED)

NW 50955 DocId: 32105598 Page 26

CONFIDENTIAL

B-W Files

O. Project MERRIMAC. Request for TUFLOWER
Six documents. (all CLASSIFIED)
P. MP LODESTAR, Eight Documents (all SECRET)
Q. March 24, 1975, Request "New Left"
One Document (SECRET)
R. Weidner Request of March 24, 1975, for 15 items from
Helms Chronological Files (26 Memos - 18 of which are SECRET)
S. Weidner March 25 Request for 6 Items
Five documents (all but #5 unclassified)
T. Baker Request of April 24, 1975 (MH CHAOS)
Fifteen Reports a-l classified)
U. Domestic Dissident Groups
Thirty-One Documents (classified)
V. International Terrorism Group
Interview with Alan P. White (CONFIDENTIAL)

NW 50955 DocId: 32105598 Page 27

CONFIDENTIAL

OLSEN/ROETHE FILES

I. INTERVIEWS
A. Ainslie, Neil (SECRET)
B. Ainslie, Dempsey and Little
(Affidavit plus three exhibits) (SECRET)
C. Barber, Wilda (plus correspondence)
D. Burns, Don (SECRET)
E. Beverly, John O. (SECRET/SENSITIVE)
F. Blake, John F. (with waiver and chart) (SECRET/SENSITIVE)
G. Boston, David (SECRET)
H. Brandwein, David (with map) (SECRET)
I. Brewer, George R. (affidavit, interview summary, and
corrections to Commission transcript) (SECRET/SENSITIVE)
J. Briggman, Sgt. John F. (plus police memo)
(SECRET/SENSITIVE)
K. Cole, Thomas L. (plus 6 exhibits) (CONFIDENTIAL)
L. Connors, Donald O. (plus waiver) (SECRET/SENSITIVE)
M. Cregar, William O. (plus testimony outline)
(SECRET/SENSITIVE)
N. Cuccherini, Thomas J. (CONFIDENTIAL/SENSITIVE)
O. Cullinane, Maurice J. (plus affidavit and exhibit)
(CONFIDENTIAL/SENSITIVE)

NW 50955 DocId: 32105598 Page 28

CONFIDENTIAL

P. Duckett, Carl E. (plus misc. related papers) (SECRET)
Q. Dudley, Donald (SECRET/SENSITIVE)
R. Durrer, William L. (affidavit plus waiver) (CONFIDENTIAL)
S. Evans, Benjamin (plus waiver) SECRET/SENSITIVE)
T. Foran, William (affidavit plus waiver) (CONFIDENTIAL)
U. Gambino, Robert (CONFIDENTIAL)
V. Gaynor, Paul (plus one document) (SECRET/SENSITIVE)
W. Gornick, Mary Margaret
X. Gregory, Schoenman, Groden, and Jaffe
(several summaries, miscellaneous documents plus
correspondence) (One CONFIDENTIAL/SENSITIVE)
Y. Harter, Earl M. (Two summaries, affidavit, waiver,
plus untitled document) (SECRET/SENSITIVE)
Z. Hartman, Thadeus Lee (plus affidavit and waiver)
(CONFIDENTIAL/SENSITIVE)
AA. Hunt, E. Howard (Interview Summaries plus correspondence
and miscellaneous documents and notes) (Some SECRET)
BB. Janney, Fred (CONFIDENTIAL)
CC. Johnson, William H. (plus waiver and affidavit)
(SECRET/SENSITIVE)
DD. Kelley, Clarence M. (Interview plus miscellaneous
documents) (CONFIDENTIAL/SENSITIVE and SECRET)

NW 50955 DocId: 32105598 Page 29

EE. Kuh, Richard E. (2 Interview summaries
plus 5 related documents) (SECRET/SENSITIVE)
FF. Marchetti, Victor (2 'phone call summaries plus
2 letters)
GG. Martin, Larry (plus waiver) (CONFIDENTIAL)
HH. Martin, Lee M. (2 summaries plus outline)
II. Osborn, Howard (5 Interview and 'phone call summaries
plus miscellaneous documents and conversation)
(TOP SECRET)
JJ. Papich, Samuel (Iterations of summary, affidavit,
waiver, plus miscellaneous documents) (Some SECRET)
KK. Phelan, Charles F. (plus waiver) (SECRET/SENSITIVE)
LL. Proctor, Edward (Summary, notes, and DDI pamphlet)
(SECRET)
MM. Sayle, Edward F. (Summary plus addendum)
(SECRET/SENSITIVE)
NN. Schwartz, Leon F. (SECRET/SENSITIVE)
OO. Sturgis, Frank (Interview plus numerous miscellaneous
documents)
PP. Sutter, George (affidavit plus waiver) (CONFIDENTIAL)
QQ. Sydorko, Mike (plus waiver) (SECRET/SENSITIVE)
RR. TAMM, Edward (CONFIDENTIAL/SENSITIVE)
SS. Tietjen, John R. (Summary of Telephone Interview)
(CONFIDENTIAL)

NW 50955 DocId: 32105598 Page 30

TT. True, Ralph (interview plus 3 related documents)
(SECRET/SENSITIVE)
UU. Vasaly, Louis W. (SECRET/SENSITIVE)
VV. Wannall, W. Raymond (Interview plus 3 documents)
(SECRET/SENSITIVE)
WW. Wilson, Jerry (plus affidavit and waiver)
(CONFIDENTIAL)
XX. Chapman, E. Forrest

NW 50955 DocId: 32105598 Page 31

Photocopy from
GR Ford Library

SECRET

II. DIRECTORATE OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
A. Incidental U.S. Communications Intercept
(SECRET - COMINT)
B. LONGSHAFT (SECRET - COMINT)
C. Influencing Human Behavior (SECRET)
D. Influencing Human Behavior - Behavioral Drugs
and Testing
E. Roethe Oral Request for DDS&T material (Several
Documents) (SECRET/SENSITIVE)
F. Science and Technology (Some SECRET)

NW 50955 DocId: 32105598 Page 32

III. DEPOSITIONS
A. Schoenman, Ralph; Groden, Robert; Groden, Christine;
Jaffee, Stephen; Gregory, Dick (plus exhibits)
(2 volumes, March 26 and 27)
B. Marchetti, Victor (TOP SECRET)
C. Sturgis, Frank; Navarro, Wilfr