180-10145-10409
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Russell August Langelle
SECRET
Genzman
5-4-78

Robert Genzman and Harold Seap interviewed Russell August Langelle at C/A headquarters. The interview yielded the following information on May 4, 1978:

Langelle joined the CIA in September 1950, and worked mainly in SR9 of the Soviet Russia Division. In November 1955 he resigned from the agency on the pretext that he was disgruntled with his assignments. His CIA files would have reflected this termination of employment. The only document to the contrary would have been a memorandum from the Director of Central Intelligence Allan Dulles, stating that Langelle would retain all rights and benefits when he returned to the CIA. (At present this document would probably be in his personnel file.)

11112574

Approximately fifteen people knew that Langelle was still with the CIA after his resignation in 1955. These included John Maury (SE), Joe Bulik (SR 9), Quentin Johnson (Chief of Operations), George Kisevalter, Frank Levy, Ted Polling, Jack Kindschi, June Sworbuck, Ed Galloway, Leonard McCoy (Reports and Requirements), Pierre de Silva (COS), and someone at the State Department's Office of Security.

SECRET
-180-10145-10409

2
Genzman
5-4-78
SECRET

Jack Kindschi, June Sworbuck, Ed Galloway, Leonard McCoy (Reports and Requirements), Pierre de Silva (COS), and someone at the State Department's Office of Security.

At the time of his resignation, Langelle applied for employment with the State Department. In the interim he worked at the Hecht Company. On March 1956 he started to work at the State Department as a Security Officer. In September 1956 he was sent to Vienna, where he earned a reputation for being a strict Security Officer at the Embassy. He deliberately was tough on C/A personnel who breached security, in order to build his cover as a non-CIA foreign service officer. His salary was paid by the State Department. The CIA Chief of Station in Vienna and the Ambassador knew he was with the CIA.

11112575

Langelle served as the Security Officer at the Moscow Embassy from December 1957 to September 1959. In addition, he was the senior CIA officer there. The C/A contingent in Moscow consisted of five or six officers

Genzman
5-4-78
SECRET

working inside the Embassy and approximately four outside. Inside, with deep cover, were George P. Winters (Econ. Officer), FNU Mahoney, FNU Venables, and Steve Washenko (Econ or Agric. Officer). Outside were Jean Leberman (teacher at the American school) and three or four students, who handled orientation projects rather than operations projects.

Langelle handled CIA communications in Moscow. The CIA used State Department channels of communication, but could code messages by means of one-pad encrypting so that the message was secret until it was forwarded to CIA headquarters, where it was decoded.

In 1959 the Soviets declared Langelle persona non grata as a result of his involvement with P.S. Popov. Langelle was the case officer of Popov, who worked for the GRU, Soviet military intelligence.

While making contact with Popov, Langelle was detained by the KGB and was questioned for two and a half hours. The KGB attempted to recruit him, and then released him. The State Department filed a formal protest, and Langelle was told to leave the Soviet Union within three days. He left the Soviet Union in early October 1959.

11112576
SECRET

4
Genzman
5-4-78
SECRET

Langelle first became aware of Lee Harvey Oswald when he heard in a conversation that a Marine had contacted the American consular office in Moscow to renounce his citizenship. He later heard that this individual had changed his mind and was returning to the United States. He does not recall the details of these conversations, but he believes they took place in the United States.

11112577

Langelle characterized Oswald's defection as a consular case to be handled by consular officers, rather than an intelligence case involving intelligence officers, who were shorthanded in Moscow at that time. He stated that the few intelligence officers in Moscow at that time were involved in specific operations, and did not perform general intelligence functions. He also stated that intelligence officers at the Embassy did not use the consular officers for intelligence purposes, and that there were

SECRET

5
Genzman
5-4-78
SECRET

no CIA people in the consular section.

Langelle stated that the military intelligence people at the Embassy probably would have been contacted about Oswald's defection. The military intelligence personnel included Leo Dulacki (Marines), Paul Adams (Navy), John Munson (Navy), and Ted Hoffman (Army). He did not know whether Alexis Davison (Navy) was an intelligence officer or whether Davison was involved in the Penkovsky case.

Langelle stated that when Oswald left the Soviet Union, he was the responsibility of the State Department, the Immigration and Naturalization service, and the FBI.

When Langelle left Moscow in 1959, Winters was the senior CIA officer there. Mahoney and Leberman were still there, and Washenko may still have been there. Langelle's replacement as Embassy Security Officer was John Abidian, who was not with the CIA. Abidian was later replaced by Hugh Montgomery who was Winter's successor as senior CIA officer.

11112578
SECRET

Genzman
5-4-78
SECRET

Montgomery was later replaced by Paul Garbler, who became the first officially designated Chief of Station in Moscow. Other C/A officers in Moscow circa 1962 included Rodney Carlson, Bill Hortaly, and possibly John D. Hemenway.

At headquarters the chief of the Soviet Russia Division was John Maury, followed by Howard Osborne and then David E. Murphy.

With regard to American journalists in Moscow, Langelle had no contacts with R. G. Korengold or Aline Mosby, did not know a. d. Goldberg, and was contacted by Priscilla Johnson for an interview after he was declared persona non grata.

SECRET 11112579

When Langelle returned to the United States, he continued working for the State Department. He resumed his CIA duties on a part-time basis in 1961. He dealt with communications between Washington and Moscow. In September 1961 he resumed his CIA duties on a full-time basis at headquarters. He worked mainly in the Soviet Russia Division, External Operations, Africa and Europe. At present he is still with the C/A and still paid by the State Department, but he plans to retire soon.

Langelle
SECRET

Langelle was born on October 7, 1922. His social security number is 495-18-8808. He is married, with three children.

Langelle
SR9

He joined the CIA in September 1950, and worked mainly in the Soviet Russian Division. In November 1955 he resigned from the agency on the pretext that he was disgruntled with his assignments. His CIA files would have reflected the termination of employment. The only document to the contrary would have been a memorandum from the Director of Central Intelligence Allan Dulles, stating that Langelle would retain all rights and benefits when he returned to the CIA. Approximately fifteen people knew that he was still with the CIA after this resignation in 1955. These included John Maury (SE), Joe Bulik (SR9), Quentin Johnson (Chief of Operations), George Kisevalter (sp); Frank Levy, Ted Polling, Jack Kindschi, June Sworbuck, Ed Galloway, Leonard McCoy (Reports and Requirements); Pierre de Silva (COS), and someone at the State Department's Office of Security.

SECRET 11112560

At the time of his resignation Langelle applied for employment with the State Department.

SECRET

Langelle handled CIA communications in Moscow. The CIA used State Department channels of communication, but could code messages by means of one pad encrypting so that the message was secret until it was forwarded to CIA Headquarters for decoding.

SECRET
11112581

Deliberately tough on C/A personnel for security breaches in order to better build his cover as a non-CIA foreign service officer. His salary was paid by the State Department.

SECRET

In the interim he worked at the Hecht Company. In March 1956 he started to work at the State Department as a Security Officer. In September 1956 he was sent to Vienna, where he earned the reputation for being a strict security Officer of the entry, the CIA Chief of Station and the Ambassador in Vienna knew he was with the CIA. Langelle served as the security officer at the Moscow Embassy from December 1957 to September 1959. In addition, he was the senior CIA officer there, with five or six CIA officers working inside the Embassy and approximately four outside. Inside, with deep cover, were George P. Winters (Econ. Officer); Mahoney, Venables, and Steve Vashenko (Econ, or agric. Officer). Outside were Jean Leberman (teacher at the American school) and three or four students, who handled orientation projects rather than operations projects.

In 1959 the Soviets declared Langelle persona non grata as a result of his involvement with P.S. Popov. Langelle was the case officer for Popov, who worked for the GRU; Soviet military intelligence.

SECRET
11112582

While making contact with Popov, Langelle was detained by the KGB and was questioned for two and a half hours. The KGB attempted to recruit him, then released him and The State Department filed a formal protest, but Langelle was forced to leave the Soviet Union within three days.

Langelle first became aware of Lee Harvey Oswald when he heard in conversation that a former Marine had contacted the American consular office in Moscow to renounce his citizenship. He later heard that this individual had changed his mind and was returning to the United States. He does not recall the details of these conversations, but he believes they took place in the United States.

11112583

Langelle characterized Oswald's defection as a consular case to be handled by consular officers, rather than an intelligence case involving intelligence officers, who were shorthanded in Moscow at that time. He stated that the few intelligence officers in Moscow at that time were involved in specific operations, and did not perform general intelligence functions. He also stated that when Oswald returned, the intelligence officers at the Embassy did not use the consular officers for intelligence purposes.

SECRET

and that there were no CIA people in the consular section.

SECRET

When Langelle left the Soviet Union, he was the responsibility of the State Department, the Immigration and Naturalization service, and the FBI.

When Langelle left Moscow in 1959, Winters was the senior CIA officer there. Mahoney and Leberman were still there, and Washenko may still have been there. Langelle's replacement as Embassy Security Officer was John Abidian, who was not with the CIA. Abidian was later replaced by Hugh Montgomery, who became Winter's successor as senior CIA officer. Montgomery was later replaced by Paul Garbler, who became the first officially designated Chief of Station in Moscow. Other CIA officers in Moscow circa 1962 included Rodney Carlson, Bill Harbley, and possibly John D. Hemingway.

Military intelligence personnel in Moscow included Paul Adams (Navy), and Ted Hoffman (Army).

At headquarters, the chief of the Soviet Russia Division was John Maury, followed by Howard Osborne and then David E. Murphy.

SECRET
11112584

SECRET

When Langelle returned to the United States, he continued working for the State Department. He resumed his CIA duties on a part-time basis in 1961. He dealt with communications between Washington and Moscow. On September 1961 he resumed his CIA duties on a full-time basis at Headquarters. He worked mainly in the Soviet Russia Division, External Operations, Africa and Europe. At present he is still with the C/A and is still paid by the State Department, but he plans to retire soon.

SECRET
11112585

Sangelle
Russell August Langelle
SECRET
Genzman
10-7-22
5-4-78
495-18-8808
Married, 3 children
CIA
Sept 50
language, operational mil
SR Div. (SR9) experience, reling, it
Nov 55 resigned from agency.
disgruntled
Hecht Co
Mar 56
Vienna
Sept. 56
memo from director
all rights & benefits.
when returns
(Dulles)
15 knew
-(SR 9 - internal ops
gros. component.
Moscow
& couple of
Vienna Cas knew I noted
-ovelly
Sec. Off-
couck building
status
+ Amb.
Sept 59
Moscow - Dec.57
people all buried.
not a station
officers in
first cos Paul Garbler
-SE- John Maury
SR9 Joe Bulik
C. of Ops Quentin Johnson
gelder (sp.) Risemalter
Frank Levy
Ted Polling
-Jack Kindschi
June Swarbuck
Ed Galloway
Reports & Requirements.
Leonard McCoy
COS
Pierre de Silva
-Office of Security
not aware
11112586
5 to 5 officers inside
outside
4
SECRET

Langelle
SECRET.
Genzman
5-4-78
Abidian
replaced
by Hugh
Montgomery
(integrated)
officer
inside
outside
left in 59
PNG
CIA
George P.
Winters, Mahoney, Venables
Steve Washenko (Econ. Officer)
Jean Leberman teacher
3 or 4 students - orientation
rather than operations
John Abidian (State Sec. Officer
took over State
responsibilities)
sort of senior
George P. Winters - Econ. Off.
Washenko - maybe
Mahoney
maybe still there
+ Leberman
agency operation.
penetration
on GRU-mil. intell
Pytor Popov agent
It was case off.
case compromised
got approval from Trish
to kidnap
stepped
off a bus
tried to recruit
SECRET
released after 2½ hrs.
said they would get in touch
State protected
PNG
11112587
Back to us worked for State Jan 60
handled State Dept duties
+ agency functions
Communications to Moscow
Resumed CIA partime 61, Sept HQ full time basis.

Sangelle
SECRET
Genzman
5-4-78
(Penkovsky)
cut out - Brit. wife
Sept.61-
62
moved back to CIA
on full-time basis Sept. 61
(58 - Sept .59)
Mahony GSA officer
Communications
Mos. to HQ.
SR9 Jack Maury.
Winters remained
conversations:
a consular officer said Marine
renounced citizenship
walk ins
consular off. would bring it to
your attention
George Kisevalter - in Berlin, handled Popov while
in Vienna.
handled Penkovsky.
maybe Rosenko.
Used State communications
SECRET
one pad encrypting
11112588

Sangelle
SECRET
Genzman
5-4-28
C/A people in consulati section
mil intell.
Paul Adams Navy
Ted Hoffman army
Munson
Navy
Dulacki Marines
would have been contacted
Korngold
- no contacts
Johnson -asked for interview after his PNG
Mosby - no contacts.
Goldberg - didn't know
Davison
doesn't know if agency.
not involved in Penkovsky to his knowledge.
dip. personnel could not be used for intel. without
prior approval from state.
Provocations
Harmotone
Naval aviator
Atsugi -53-55
SECRET
11112589

Langelle
SECRET
Genzman
5-4-78
62
Hugh Montgomery (senior)
John D. Hemingway (?)
Paul Garbler (cos; replaced Montgomery)
Rodney Carlson
Bill Harbley
No common source register with Moscow
63- SR, Chief of External Ops.
Africa & Eur.
Still paid by State
FSR 4 in Moscow
6513- Moscow,
David E. Murphy -Chief of SR Div. 64-65
then Maury
Cos in Berlin during
Popov operation while
Langelle in Moscow
followed by Howard Osborne
SECRET
Murphy
11112530

He believed that the military intelligence people at the Embassy would have been contacted about Oswald's defection. The military intelligence personnel included Paul Adams (Navy), John Munson (Navy) and Ted Hoffman (Army). Langelle did not know whether Alexis Davison (Navy) was an intelligence officer or whether he was involved in the Penkovsky case.

With regard to American journalists in Moscow, Langelle had no contacts with R. G. Korengold or Aline Mosby, did not know a. d. Goldberg, and was contacted by Priscilla Johnson for an interview after his expulsion for an interview after he was declared persona non grata.

-11112591
SECRET

SECRET
Rest
30-61
1717662
356-4650
first cos
Eugene
11.
64
Winters
Mahoney
Rt.7
Spring
Berkeley
1503 Krug
Garbler - Vienna
Osborne McLean
2005.63 Montgomery-
2 Jun 62-148.62 Rodney Carlson
11ful 63, 31 ang 65 Edward Gotchef
annual leave til may.
22
11 Jan 63, 18 Jan. 66 Jerry Prehn
HQ 2p.m.
May 12
C/SR
John Maury
1 Dec 54-29Jul 62
370 Farr ave,
Farshan
Howard J. Osborne
30 Jul 62 15 Sept 63
948-6727
David E. Murphy
16 Sept 63 - 10 May 65
1537 Forest
Villa foine, The Lear
58-7573
SECRET
11112592
