180-10145-10302

[2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

Victor Paneque.
1 pkg. loose documents.
1 kg. Des documents
Volume
CI/OA documents
Volume DDO documents
Palmer
8/2/78
DDO. Volume
October 3, 1960:
Personality Jale Request
Victor Panaque
201-286 382
Reportedly an agent of DIER
Central Intelligence Agency
has no Objection to Release
Date:
AS SANITIZED
2003

Undated document giving Paneque's background political activity. All 1960 information.

1. On arrival in U.S., stayed with Orlando Bosch, suspected Castro agent.

f.
6. associated with leader of MRR "Camilo Cienfueges
Carlos Rodriguez Castro, suspected Castic plant in U.S.
Reportedly spent 2 hrs. with Raul Castro before defecting

Major Sanjenis, former Chief G-2, says Paneque of GOC agent.
Organization Autentica reporting & State Dept that Paneque is a Castro plant.

[00-A 3168667] reports Paneque one of twis
DIER plants at Uni. of Havana & stridentes
planning to assassinate him
Cuban businessman
2903442
sap Panequais G.Z plant.
CIA reported D FBI cheat Subject bot
ac
10145 -10302

Palmer
8/2/78
SECRET Panque

April 29, 1959 Classified message & Director from
Raul Castro has begunia major
purge of Cuban Armed Forces. Among those
to be eliminated are.

18 Oct. 1960
Victor Paneque, aka "Diego"
Conversation with major Vector M. Paneque. (Commadante
Diego, 6 Octotier at 900).
When Paneque arrived in Miami, he got
together with Aliança de Liberacion through.
Dr. Luis. Conte Aguero. He could not get immediate
help from this group, so resigned. Also said.
he had tried 8 get help from U.S. gout: but ansuccessful.
Panique is convinced that the only
thing needed & overthrow Castro is armo
supplies. Has a flane which he intends f
fly into Cuba with cargo of as
arms.
Author of memo recomments that CIA
offer assistance & Panspire independent of
all other organizations
Capable of becoming
the future.
as he seems to be
important factor in

0003443
Nov. 2, 1960 Cable To Director from mash
Ранерия 48 тен
leaving for Cuba night of 1 how
on 40-foot yacht, Trudy Lou Craft purchased by
Orlando Bosch.

DIER - Departamento Investigativo
Del Ejercito Revolucionario.

14 Dec. 1960
Palmer
8/2/78
SECRET
Рамерия
Cable to Director from Havaria: IN 16758
Panoque reportedly under arrest at Cabana
Previon
4 his wife at Women's prison, on chargex
of aiding Excombray fighters

Jan 13, 1961
Cable to Bell from Guatemala City IN 1688.
Alexander Rourke gives information that Thank
miami
Fiorini & Orlando Bosch represent Paneque in Cuba.
Fiorini Bosh recruiting & equiping force for
assault on Cuba 18 Jan. Receiving financial aid
from ante Communist International Association
of nye.,

14 March 1962
Dispatch & Chief, Task Force W. from COS/SMWAVE.
Paneque organized a Hunger Strike by Cuban
Eules & held a rally
13 March 1962 Purpose.
I show JJK that Cubans are willing to die
in exile if their right to defend Cuba in from
Communism is negated motto of strike is
"Hunger or War".
0003444

PRQ past 1
Aliases: Diego

July 4, 1964.
Rene Ricardo (Clandestine activity

Palmer
8/1/78
Request for Information & Review
POA granted 13 how 1964]
8 дея 1964
Report of Covert Assessment.
Paneque
Рапедия
SECRET
5 Nov: 1964
from Assessment & Evaluation Staff, Medical Staff
one of 6 members of the "rodop
traineer (radio operators :) given psychological
assessments in Aug 1964, Panique is oldest,
(DOB 18 Sept 1920) Codleast intelligent, most
experienced of
group. Likely he would
try to dominate the group because of
the
his
past experience. His shortcomings seem to
out weigh, his assets.
in how 1964 Classified message 1622582
[ Pansque assigned AMRUG-5]
19
Dec.
1964
Memorandum of Oral Commitment
Paneque engaged under oral contract on,
To receive $275.28 per month following
Completion of satisfactory service
лесский Лайе
of training
(Possibly
Will
of
$50 per month on completion
+ $50 raise upon infiltration
an infiltration of Oriente Provenice)
0003445
Dec 1964:
See item
13

1965
Равишем
8/2/78
Рамари
SECRET
Dispatch from Cos/JMWAVE
Paneque terminated as of 31 Oct 1965: Cigent
Service record. recommends him for re-lose.
basis of his knowledge of internal contacte in
Northern Oriente.
15 Sept 1977. to managua

095686
Panique participated in Cuban spile activities
in New York area in 1962 and later
, on
registered in ISR & Dept & army in Argust 1962
(Dropped, without prejuridice 18 nov 1963.) Du
1964 Panique
was member of MDC
infiltration team. Recruited by meami
station as radio operator / infiltree and fammably
swirled on 5 August 1964.
POR granted.
13. nov 19.64. Paid #275 monthly beginning
1
Sep 1964.
Trained by
Cuban
agents in miami
but never used operationally. Amicably terminated
1965 & recommended for re-use. Reported
Oct
1969 as conducting clandestine trips inside.
Cuba on.
behalf.
1. Junta militer de Cuba.

deletion
sealed enveloper.
mine
Thesi
8- FBI
agency
l
Dept of Army
0003446

Volume Cl/0A
Palm 8/2/78
Ce 12/15
SECRET
no notes necessary
Victor Manuel Paneque Batista
-
e-286 382
Deletions
-
1. sealed envelope.
FBI report 3 nov 1960 and Office of Security.
polygraph Intervi
Victor Panique
DCD Documents
Lover Documents
.17. Jeb. 1972.

no notes...
-
Victor Paneque.
Subject: Identification of pec, DSE, use members, etc
page 3 - Item 9: Information acquired through
interrogation of CC-4993, Jacinto BAEZ galiano,
Cuban refugee & former recident Rogla Gavana
Province, who left Cuba 22 how 1971.
nov 1971. Sichsource
Worked for Superphoskates Enterprise from 1950-1968.
Victor Manuel Panique employed.
(hote)
ventil
1968 as
laboratory
Chief of Superphoup later, is a member of the PCC,
militia, & Defence Committee (.CDR). He is an
agronomist & former director
of School of Agronomy.,
Havana University. He is described as
Caucasian, 5'2" tall, weight about 165 lbs
born
1927-32.
black hair, dark-colored eyes.
0003447
Victor Panapra Batista is 5'6" brown hair, blue eyes,
born 1920.

Morales
BECKS
Salmer
8/5/77
Response of 24 July 1978 referent.
20 Jan. 1961 dispatch to Chief/WH from
Chief, JMWAVE
Subj; operational /JMATE/AMOT]
Ref: Bell .0447.
when info of referenced cable passed to
[amot/2] he stated he had received some
info from Velipe Rodrigung de la torre According
Ma/2) The already alerted [AMIRON] (A-2) said
that subject has as of 13 Jan 1961, not attempted
To enlist in LAMIRON] Both have WAVE and
[AMOT] are attempting & locate subject.
0003448
