NW 88326

Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: 180-10060-10481
RECORD SERIES: SSTAFF PAYROLL RECORD
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

December 8, 1995
Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 4

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 2

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN.

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

DocId:32239489 Page 1
Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 [44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#: NW 88326 Date: 2025

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
Date: 08/20/93
Page: 1

AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: 180-10060-10481
RECORDS SERIES: STAFF PAYROLL RECORD
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:
ORIGINATOR: HSCA
FROM:
TO:

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
TITLE:
DATE: 05/01/78
PAGES: 4
SUBJECTS:
MCDONALD, JAMES
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
DOCUMENT TYPE: PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION: U
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS: P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/04/93
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS:
Box 2.
[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 88326
DocId:32239489 Page 2

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM.
(Please Use Typewriter - U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES ) (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
James McDonald 10/2/78
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action
047-34-7188 Appointment
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee Salary Adjustment
Assassinations Title Change
Termination (At close of business on effective date)
Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending
close of business )
Specify Date

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff Clerical or Professional.

2. Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. of Congress.

3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number If applicable, Level

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

October 2, 1978
(Signature of Authorizing Official)

LOUIS STOKES
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
CHAIRMAN
(Type or print name and title of above official) (Title- If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code
Monthly Annuity $ .00 as of
Copy for Initiating Office or Committee
ID
Benefits
Payroll

(Revised: August 1, 1977)

NW 88326
DocId:32239489 Page 3

Certificate of Relationship/Nonrelationship to
Any Current Member of Congress

Date 5/2/78
To: Select Committee
(Employing Authority)
ON ASSASSINATIONS

I certify that I do not have any of the following relationships to any current Member of Congress.

father nephew sister-in-law stepfather
mother niece stepmother
son husband stepson
daughter wife stepdaughter
brother father-in-law stepbrother
sister mother-in-law stepsister
uncle son-in-law half-brother
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister
first cousin brother-in-law

I certify that I am the of the
(Relationship)
Honorable
(Name of Member to whom related)

(Employee)
16-78695-3

NW 88326
DocId:32239489 Page 4

MEMORANDUM

TO: Tom Howarth, Budget Officer
Elizabeth Berning, Chief Clerk

FROM: I. Charles Mathews, Special Counsel

DATE: May 4, 1978

RE: Mr. James McDonald

Please be advised that effective Monday, May 1, 1978, Mr. James McDonald has accepted the position of Senior Staff Counsel with the John F. Kennedy Task Force.

His effective starting salary will be $38,000.00 per annum and he will remain on the Committee payroll until on or about October 15, 1978.

If you have any questions concerning this matter, please contact me at your convenience.

ICM:j

NW 88326
DocId:32239489 Page 5

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter - U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES - (Any erasures, corrections, or changes on
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First- Middle- Last) Effective Date
James McDonald 5/1/78
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action
047-34-7195 Appointment
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee Salary Adjustment
Assassinations Title Change
Termination (At close of business on effective date)
Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending
close of business )
Specify Date

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*
Senior Staff Counsel 38,000

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff - Clerical or Professional.

2. Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 956 of 95th Congress.

3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number If applicable, Level Step

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date May 1, 1978
(Signature of Authorizing Official)

LOUIS STOKES, CHAIRMAN
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
(Title If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code
Monthly Annuity $ .00 as of
Copy for Initiating Office or Committee
ID
Benefits
Payroll

(Revised: August 1, 1977)

NW 88326
DocId:32239489 Page 6
