(180-10145-10301)
(2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992)
Box 55
Folder 1
Central Intelligence Agency
has no Objection to Release
Date: SANITIZED
SECRET
8/1/78
Calmer

2003
Orlando Bosch Avila
Volume I
FBI
201-299292
DDO - Six Volumes
Third agency material in sealed envelope.
Undated report
Dr. Orlando Bosch Avila CAMDITTO/23/
DPOB: 18 Aug. 1926, Santa Clara, Cuba
Bosch was critical of CIA policy & personnel following Bay of Pigs
However, in March 1962, WAVE requested a POA on Bosch advising he was "Cooperative and secure."
To be utilized as General Coordinator of Evelio Duque group, POA granted on 6 March 1962.
Seven polygraphs in May 1962 - came out clean
His clearance was cancelled in Nov. 1962.
Bosch aligns himself with individuals and organizations that are currently involved in operations against Cuba, usually serving as General Coordinator & takes responsibility for securing financial backing.
June 1965

Biographical Data Report - Orlando Bosch
Personal Data: Bosch is shrewd, cunning, devious & deceptive. He is primarily an adventurer & probably an anarchist rather than a true revolutionary. He is probably a paranoid psychopath. He is a good doctor but neglects his job to devote time to raiding activities. He is notorious and has several times announced raids over Cuba which never occurred.

10145-10301

Calmer
8/1/78
Bosch
SECRET
Volume II.
no. notes 1965-68.
Third agency deletions
nine sealed envelopes - all FBI

Volume III. 1968-1974.
Third agency deletions.
16 sealed envelopes - all FBI
no. notes
Volume IV 1975-1978
Third agency deletions:
23 sealed envelopes.
DOD document - Intelligence Report Old 9 June 1976
2231022/76
MI group, It Amador - Canal Zone.
Subject: Cuban Exile Terrorist group.
SS Cable 2 Feb. 1976. - San Jose 105
Subject: the arrest of Juan Bosch at this Location
6 envelopes SS documents re, visit of Henry Kissinger to Caracas, Feb. 1976.
Remainder FBI USAF Cable from JCS 10 Jan 1978
File # MSGNO 46. (MIIR). Subject; Venezuelan Aircraft Security Threat Expands

Palmer
SECRET
8/1/78
Bosch
State Cables - Nov Dec 1977.
State Cables - Nov; Dec. 1977 - Visas for wife & child of Orlando Bosch
bombings - July 12-13, 1976
Remainder sealed envelopes - FBI documents
Feb. 1976 Cable. IN 824723
CITE: Caracas 29063
To: Priority director, Santiago, Buenos Aires, LA Miami
WK SCARLET-3 (former unilateral asset) advises he is investigating bombing Cuban ambassador Caracas + is travelling during week to Santiago, Buenos Aires
Cuban Ambassador Norberto Hernandez Curbelo reported receiving bomb in large Manila envelope bearing return address of Dr. Gustavs A. Vollmer
WK Scarlet/ former WK Scarlet chief, is security consultant & has retained w/ Scarlet/3 a commercial investigations service, to determine who used Vollmer's name
WK Scarlet/3 maintains contacts with Orlando Bosch
18 Feb. 1976
Cable IN. 830506
CITE: Caracas 29129
Frank Castro had knowledge of attempt to assassinate nephew of Allende & told WK Scarlet/3.
In order to use information, agency afraid they will compromise W.K Scarlet / 3.

Balmer 8/1/78
Orlando Bosch
SECRET
Volume I August 1976- October 1976
Third Agency Deletions.
no notes
Volume II
Deletions - 10 Sealed envelopes, State & FBI
Third Agency deletions
6 sealed envelope.
4 FBI
2 State - 12 Nov. 1976
Cable 943114
To: Priority Contrage Info Join Joas, Caracas
Morales was source of numerous secret service reports during Kissinger visit to Caracas in Feb. 1976 on reported attempt by Bosch to kill Kissinger. One SS report indicated Morales had provided Caracas legal attache "with reliable info in the past.
Dispatch 15 Nov 1976
From: Chief of Station, uts
of Chief: LA. Division.
Byron W. Jutradt met WK Scarlet / 3 in 1964 when both were enrolled in OCS at Mr. Benning, Ga.

Palmer
8/1/78
Bosch
SECRET
Loose Documents.
One sealed envelope- FBI documents deleted
Bosch, Orlando -Te-97563,
One sealed envelope - Office of Security Information.
