Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10460
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995
Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 7

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United
States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 2

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could
reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

NW 88326
DocId:32239468 Page 1
Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note].
Case#: NW 88326 Date: 2025

--- Page 2 ---

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date: 08/20/93
Page: 1
AGENCY : NSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10460
RECORDS SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
ORIGINATOR : HSCA
FROM :
TO :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

TITLE :
DATE : 11/08/77
PAGES : 7
SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
KREIDMAN, MELVIN

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 3

CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/04/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :
Box 2.
[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
NW 88326
DocId:32239468 Page 2

--- Page 3 ---

KREIDMAN, Mel
Name of Employee
Address
Address
Phone Number
Position Title

OFFICE OF THE CLERK
U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
PERSONAL LEAVE RECORD
1978
YEAR

DATE OF APPOINTMENT
11-8-77

PRIOR FEDERAL SERVICE

Years
Months

Position Number
Level
Step

BALANCE BROUGHT
FORWARD FROM
PRECEDING YEAR

Annual
Leave

Sick
Leave

ANNUAL LEAVE
CATEGORY

ACCRUED
THIS MONTH

AVAILABLE
THIS MONTH

USED
THIS MONTH

BALANCE
AT CLOSE
OF MONTH

DAY OF MONTH
Annual
Leave
Sick
Leave
Annual
Leave
Sick
Leave
Annual
Leave
Sick
Leave
Annual
Leave
Sick
Leave
Month
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
Jan.
Feb.
Mar.
Apr.
May
June.
July
Aug.
Sept.
Oct.
Nov.
Dec.

Terminated 6/30/78

= 0.5 day annual leave
= 1.0 day annual leave
= 0.5 day sick leave
= 1.0 day sick leave
= 0.5 day administrative leave
= 1.0 day administrative leave

= 0.5 day unauthorized absence
= 1.0 day unauthorized absence
= 0.5 day leave without pay
= 1.0 day leave without pay

CERTIFIED CORRECT:

Date
Chief's Signature
Date

Approved:
Clerk of the House
Date

Employee's Signature
(If employee refuses to sign, state reason below.)

EMPLOYEE
INITIALS

This record will be forwarded to the Clerk of the House at the end of each calendar year, or in case of termination, along
with the request for termination. Upon approval, the record will be filed in the employee's official personnel folder.

NW 88326
DocId:32239468 Page 3

--- Page 4 ---

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter
or Ballpoint Pen)
U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, D.C. 20515

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes
on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)
Melvin Kreidman

Effective Date
June 30, 1978

Employee Social Security Number
074-30-3065

Type of Action
Appointment
Salary Adjustment
Title Change
Termination (At close of business on effective date)
Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending
close of business
Specify Date

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee
Assassinations

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title
Gross Annual Salary*

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff - Clerical or Professional.
2. Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 465 of 95th Congress.
3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)
Position Number
If applicable, Level
Step

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives.

Date June 5, 1978
(Signature of Authorizing Official)
LOUIS STOKES, CHAIRMAN
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
(Title If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:
Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code
Monthly Annuity $ .00

NW 88326
DocId:32239468 Page 4
(Revised: August 1, 1977)
Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

--- Page 5 ---

MEMORANDUM

TO: Thomas Howarth, Budget Officer
FROM: G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director
DATE: May 24, 1978

Mel Kreidman will be on administrative leave from now
through June 30, 1978. He will not be with the Committee
after that time.

NW 88326
DocId:32239468 Page 5

--- Page 6 ---

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN
RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C.
WALTER E. FAUNTROY, D.C.
YVONNE BRATHWAITE BURKE, CALIF.
CHRISTOPHER J. DODD, CONN.
HAROLD E. FORD, TENN.
FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND.
ROBERT W. EDGAR, PA.
(202) 225-4624

SAMUEL L. DEVINE, OHIO
STEWART B. MC KINNEY, CONN.
CHARLES THONE, NEBR.
HAROLD S. SAWYER, MICH.

Select Committee on Assassinations
U.S. House of Representatives
3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

May 23, 1978

Congressman Robert Edgar
117 Cannon HOB
Washington, D.C.

Dear Congressman Edgar:

On your recent trip to Canada, Mel Kreidman did
not realize that under the House Rules, we cannot reimburse
him for expenses paid for another.

Consequently, we prepared a voucher for $75.00 in your
name for the expenses paid by Kreidman.

When you receive the check, you should endorse it over
to Kreidman so that he will be reimbursed.

Have your office give me a call if you have any questions.

Sincerely,

Thomas Howarth
Budget Officer

TH: OW

Check received and forwarded
to Kreidman 6/2/78

NW 88326
DocId:32239468 Page 6

--- Page 7 ---

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF
RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and
Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of
Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's
monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of
each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification
is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the
certification:

father nephew brother-in-law
mother niece sister-in-law
son husband stepfather
daughter wife stepmother
brother father-in-law stepbrother
sister mother-in-law stepsister
uncle son-in-law half-brother
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister
first cousin

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date
this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel
file. If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget
Office immediately of the change.

I am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

I am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.
(Please specify.)

Signature of Employee
Nov 14, 1977
Date

NW 88326
DocId:32239468 Page 7

--- Page 8 ---

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter
or Ballpoint Pen)
U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, D.C. 20515

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes
on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

Employee Name (First Middle-Last)
Melvin Kreidman

Effective Date
November 8, 1977

Employee Social Security Number
074-30-3065

Type of Action
Appointment
Salary Adjustment
Termination (At close of business on effective date)

Employing Office or Committee
Assassinations

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title
Staff Counsel

Gross Annual Salary
$34,000

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff - Clerical or Professional.
2. Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 465 of 95th Congress.
3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)
Position Number
If applicable, Level
Step

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives.

Date November 15, 1977
(Signature of Authorizing Official)
Louis Stokes
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
Chairman
(Title If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:
Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code
Monthly Annuity $ .00

NW 88326
DocId:32239468 Page 8

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

--- Page 9 ---

MEMORANDUM

TO: Tom Howarth, Budget Officer
FROM: Charlie Mathews, Special Counsel
DATE: October 3, 1977
RE: Mr. Melvin Kreidman

Mr. Melvin Kreidman has accepted the position of Senior
Staff Attorney with the Martin Luther King Task Force. His
effective starting date will be October 17, 1977, and his
starting salary will be $34,000.00 per annum.

Mr. Kreidman graduated from Cornell Law School in 1963
and since 1967 has served in the New York County District
Attorney's Office. He is currently Assistant District Attorney,
Homicide Bureau, in that office.

Your full co-operation in familiarizing Mr. Kreidman
with staff procedures and welcoming him aboard will be
appreciated.

ICM: jl

NW 88326
DocId:32239468 Page 9
