Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10447
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995
Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 7

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 4

Postponements. All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

NW 88326 DocId:32239455 Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
Date: 08/20/93
Page: 1

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10447
RECORDS SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
ORIGINATOR : HSCA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
DATE : 06/27/77
PAGES : 7

SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
ISRAEL, MAURICE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/04/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:
Box 2.
[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 88326 DocId:32239455 Page 2

November 15, 1978

United States House of Representatives
Select Committee on Assassinations
Personnel Office
Washington, D. C.

Re: Maurice Israel.
SSN: 128-20-8996

Dear Sirs:

The above-named individual has stated on an employment application to the City of New York that he was employed by you from June, 1977 to March, 1978 and as an Investigator.

Would you kindly confirm this information in the space provided on this letter and return it to me at your earliest convenience. Thank you for your cooperation.

Very truly yours,

Stanley N. Lupkin
Commissioner

By:
Mildred Houston
Director, Background
Investigation Section

The above information is correct: YES [ ] NO [ ] see remarks.
Employment was terminated voluntarily: YES [ ] NO [ ] see remarks.

Remarks:

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, D.C 20515

(Please Use Typewriter or Ballpoint Pen)
(Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official )

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
Maurice Israel 3/8/78
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action
128-20-8996 [ ] Appointment
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee [ ] Salary Adjustment
Assassinations [ ] Title Change
[X] Termination (At close of business on effective date)
[ ] Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending close of business)

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U S House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee plus the salary received from the employing office

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below )

1. [ ] Standing Committee: Staff—[ ] Clerical or [ ] Professional.

2. [X] Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. 879 of 95th Congress.
3. [ ] Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number If applicable, Level Step

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 USC 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

LOUIS STOKES

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

CHAIRMAN

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

(Revised August 1, 1977)
Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326 DocId:32239455 Page 4

MEMORANDUM

TO: Thomas Howarth, Budget Officer
FROM: I. Charles Mathews, Special Counsel
DATE: 7 March 1978
RE: Termination

Please be advised that effective Friday, March 3, 1978, Maurice Israel will be terminated from the Committee payroll.

If you have any questions concerning this matter, please contact me at your convenience.

Termination Effective 3/8/78

ICM: j

NW 88326 DocId:32239455 Page 5

NW 88326 DocId:32239455 Page 6

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, DC. 20515

(Please Use Typewriter or Ballpoint Pen)
(Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official )

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action.

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
Maurice Israel 6/27/77
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action
128-20-8996 [X] Appointment
Employing Office or Committee [ ] Salary Adjustment
Assassinations [ ] Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary
Staff Investigator $24,000

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below )

1. [ ] Standing Committee: Staff—[ ] Clerical or [ ] Professional.

2. [X] Special or Select Committee: Authority-H Res. 465 of 95th Congress

3 [ ] Joint Committee

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below )

Position Number If applicable, Level Step

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5. U.S.C 3110(b); prohibiting the employment of relatives

Date June 28, 1977

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

Louis Stokes
Chairman

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
(Title if Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code
Monthly Annuity $.00

NW 88326 DocId:32239455 Page 7
Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF
RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the certification:

father nephew brother-in-law
mother niece sister-in-law
son husband stepfather
daughter wife stepmother
brother father-in-law stepbrother
sister mother-in-law stepsister
uncle son-in-law half-brother
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister

first cousin

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel file. If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget Office immediately of the change.

[X] I am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.
[ ] I am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.
(Please specify.)

Signature of Employee 6/29/77

NW 88326 DocId:32239455 Page 8

Select Committee on Assassinations
U.S. House of Representatives
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

July 8, 1977

Finance Office
House of Representatives
Washington, D.C. 20515

To whom it may concern:

Please note changes of address for these Committee employees:

Maurice Israel (128 20 8996)
2601 South Glebe Road, Apt. 2600-1A
Arlington, VA 22206

Burton A. Chardak (194 18 8264)
120 South Reynolds
Apartment L-509
Alexandria, VA 22304

Thank you.

Sincerely,

Rebecca W. Martin
Chief Clerk

rwm

NW 88326 DocId:32239455 Page 9
