RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

AN INTERVIEW

8/17/76
B0128

AMERICAN EMBASSY / PARIS Foldu 13
#3
1973 RETIRED
NOV 63 SAT IN PARIS
NO GOT Cover

THIS COPY IS NOT FOR RELEASE.

[SEPT. 62] ARRIVED
DEFENSE DER] AS BEACH 6 CHIEF.
TWO YRS IN SEC 6
PARIS
SEPT 1960 ASSIGNED

NOT INFRED CONTACT
PERSON W/
I MADE ON OUTSIDE BY TELE TO OFF COVER
NEVER WRITTEN com

SEL 6
ESPIONAGE W/ IN SUPPORT OF SR DIV
SUPPORT OF SR DV
RESING INFO.

USSR
PENETRATION OF PURPS OF ESPIONAGE
CARTO
DEMOG
SOCIOLOGISTS
SU, POL INFO PERSONS
IT WAS IN DOWN PHASE
AT THE TIME
20-25 WHEN HE CAME IN
[JAPAN]
FEB 1955 - JUNE 1960
CHIEF OF SOU BASE OF
N. ASIA COMMAND.
180-10143-10152

ATTACHED TO FAR EASTERN command
OF ARMED FORCES
ONE OF FOUR BASES: THEY WERE TARGETS
SOU BASE BUT NOT AGAINST JAPAN
SOU, JAPAN, KOREA, RIINA
GOR 10 IN
SOU BASE
ASSIGNED AS HEAD IN 1955
TIPES OF OPS from SOU BASE
ESPIONAGE
PSYCHO WARFARE, RADO TRANS-.
MISSION TO INTERNAL SOU
ESP
AUDIENCE

SOU NAVAL & INDUSTRIAL TARGETS I'V.
GOV PORTS USING

MAINLY JAPANESE OPERITIVES
EXTREMELY
WORK W/ MILITARY
WOULD BRIEF MILITARY
THEO TO WORK W/ CLANDESTINE UNITS OF
ARMY, NAVY HAD NONE
BUT THEY HAD LOW DEGREE OF PROFESSIONALISM
SAID, IT
MILITARY WAS RUNNING OPS BUT IT WAS
NEVER CONFIRMED
MILITARY INTELL PERSO
CAPT PEREZ OSI
JOHN B SCAULEY.
ARMY HEAD
OP. SUPP. UAG PROVIDED BY NAVY
I.E. COVER FOR PERSONS CONTACTING SOVIETS
CANNOT RECALL SPECIFIC INFO ABOUT
MILI. USING
AM. MILITARY.
EXCEPT ROMBRES OF TRAFFICKING
THE IND. INTELL AGENCIES WOULD HAVE
WOULD HAVE HANDLED

SUPERIORS
NO CONCRETE INFO OF ANY CONTACT
CAME
HIS ATTENTION
WI SOUS
CHIEF OF N. ASIA COMM: 1955: RETIRED VICE..
ADM. 0.
THEN
HARRY
LITTLE
1957
HIS COMUNICATIONS WERE GENERALLY BACK
HIS COMUNICATIONS WERE
TO
N. ASIA com AT TIME WAS TIED w
KOREA + JAPAN

DOES NOT KNOW WHO HAD OVERSIONT FOR U-2
WAS WELL COMPARTMENTED.
NEVER LEARNED
ASSUMED IT WAS PARAMILITARY
N.ALIA RACE RAN NO PARAMILITARY
OPS
MOST SMALLER STATIONS DID NOT
CHIEF DIR
DOESN'T RECALL DISCUSSING USING AT DEFECTORS TO
THOUGHT" KGB LED SUSPECT NU From BEGINNING
KNOW A LOT ABOUT KGB.
FROM DISPLACEMENT OF CITI
AM EGP INTEREST WAS MUCH MORE SHORT RANGE
AS TO PRECLUDE PROGRAM
NOT IN
LESS
AM WAY I DOING THINGS
LESSENING OF TENGIOUS DID ALLOW SOME
FOREIGN
SHALLOW PENE: SHORT TERY TOURISTS,
BUT NO DIRECT + OBVIOUS EFFECT

435-173-A
DOES REMEMBER MEMO
ONE OF HIS CONTACTS
LAMPRELL
=
204 RBT. SINCLAIR
WAS SR. OFF IN
STATION (#2 MAN)
WALTER HALTIGAN
D. OF CANCER FEW
SOU. OFF OF PARKS
JAMES FLINT WAS HIS NORMAL CONTACT

DOESN'T KNOW WHY TIME DELAY
ASSUMES HALTIGAN WASIVIT AVAILABLE
(RECALLS)
WROTE MEMO SPONTANEOUSLY BECAUSE OF NEWS CAST
WHEN HE HEARD INFO ABOUT MINSK, [MARRYING]
[FOREIGNER,] REMEMBERED STATE DEPT. INFO

REDWOOD
Deposed To
REBLAP
B.
CLAND OPS / CHIEF OF SR WAS RESPONSIBLE
TARGETS AGAINST SOUS OUT OF USSR
HAVE THEIR OWN
WAG STAFF REVIEW, BUT SUPPOSEDLY NO CONTROL
VOICE; BUT THEY DID.
CLOSELY HELD OPG]
THEY GAVE OP APPROVAL
FOR EVERY OPERATION
POSSIBLE ER PROBABLE THAT THEY RU Uis

WAS AN OP FUNCTION OF THE 6 BRANCH
CANNOT REMEMBER RESEARCH'S EXACT MANDATE

BRANCH
SCANDINAVIA
2 E
3 M.00 +
XIN
5 FAR EAST
INTER
BRANCH

RESEARCH WOULD GET INFO FROM DEFECTORS ABOUT
REALITIES.
SOV. DEFECTORS, GETTING DETAILS ABOUT SOVIET
LIFE
WOULD NORMALLY PMP PERSON LIKE .O. ASUT
LIFE IN USSR
DOESN'T PERSONALLY KNOW OF DEFECTOR BEING.
USED AS SOURCE IN HIS BRIEF TIME IN
GOV. UNION
AGENCY BENEFITED FROM RBI DEBRIEFINGS

BELIEVES / FIELDS FROM CHEUNOS
MANDATE IN
5) WAS
DEBRIEFED
INFO ON AMER IN
SU UNION.
BELIEVES HE GOT
FOR STATE DEPT VISAS OR FROM PRESS
6 RESEARCH Sec.
CHIEF:
CANNOT REME
DEP. CHIEF: OLDER MAN AT Act of RETIREMENT
RUDOLF
BALABAN (UKR-AMER.) CAN REMEMBER NAMES
DATE OF DISCUSSION:
LAST DAYS OF WORK: 300 OR 4TH WK OF JULY 1962
SO DISCUSSION TOOK PLACE
ASSUMED HE HD BOON SONT OUT BY KGB SO DID
NOT DEBRIEF
SUMMER 1960

LEFT JAPAN, TRAVELLED
THRU EUROPE ON LEAVE W/ FAMILY UNTIL SEPT.
COULD NOT HAVE BEEN 1960.
USED WRONG TERM IN THE MEMO

KUJUMP:
BRIEFING
JP'S DIV, HAD CONTACTS DIV. FOR DE-
SUIT CHANNELS: INS FB1
HD READ ONE STATE DEPT DISPATCH ON
RETURNING

IF HE GAVE UP PASSPORT HAD TO APPLY IN.
SOME WAY TO RETURN
BELIEVES AM HAD CONCERTS INITIATED BY HIM
KNEW WHATEVER WAS IN STATE DEPT DISPATCH
About HIM.
CIA'S OWN EVALUATION
BECAUSE HE WAS ALLOWED TO LIVE
IN
+ MARRY
CONTROLLED STATION COULD TALK & CONTACT
PERFUNCTORY MANNER
1945-60
DOESN'T BELIEVE MORE THAN
DOESN'T BELIEVE
THEIR ATTENTION
LATE TO
STATE
MILI.
REDSKIN = LEGAL TRAVELLERS PROGRAM
VERY LEGIT PRESENCE IN USSR.
DEBRIEFING AGENCY WOULD WRITE INFO & PAG IT ON
HE BELIEVES HE WOULD HAVE KNOWN

BELIEVES IT INCONCEIVABLE O WOULD HAVE BEEN
OPERATIVE
NO INFO...
KGB OPERATIONS MADE IT CONC
COULD HAVE BEEN LAY LOW OPERATIVE

HAD SOME SPECIAL DESIGN PLANTS OF INTEREST.
AVIATION
NUCLEAR ENERGY
BACTERIO. WARFARE
CAN'T REMEM WHICH WERE IN MINSK
ANYTHING NEAR THEM WAS OF INTEREST
CONFIDENT
WAS NOT WORKING IN SUCH.
WAS NOT CLEAR MILI
MILI OR SECURITY AREA
THE
BELIEVES THEY HAD ENCIC INFO ON RADIO MOTORY
IN OFF. OF RESEARCH & REPORTING
WASN'T AWARE OF KBB FAC IN MINSK
LEGAL TRAV. PROG
HEADED BY ALEKANDER
BEBAN
SOKALOFF
SR DIV
AS LESSENING
Lessening OF TENSIONS
PRE 1960 AS
SOK CAME OUT AS CHILD W/ RUSSIAN PARENTS
DEFS WERE KEPT AT ARMS LENGTH
MEANT HAD RELA WELL BEFORE HIS TRIP

KNEW WHAT HE'D BE DOING COULD SILE
RED'TS
C. WAS NOT INVOLVED IN IT
C WAS OPPOSED BECAUSE IT WAS TOO SHORT TERY
IN TIME OF RESOURCES, RISK.
Risk
COVER MAY HAVE BEEN USED BY AGENCY, BUT
DIDN'T KNOW, SAID.

HARVEY STORY
MUST HAVE

TRUE
NEVER CONTACTED BY ANY BODY ABOUT
O..
MEMO
O. INTEREST WAS JUST A LEAD
NOT UNUSUAL
- No Follow up
O'S GOING TO USSR WAS
USSR WAS UNUSUAL, LEFT HIM
BUT HE WAS THEREFORE OF MARGINAL IN-
TEREST
ONCE THEY DECIDED NOT TO USE
IT'S POSS AL LOLLE AQUE COULD HAVE

SUBORDINATES
BALABAN
RICHARD [WINK] ?
CHARLES COX
LIAISON W/ TECH SUPPORTS DIV
(i.e. CONCEALMENT DEVICES)
DEPUTIES:
IN 1960
CHACHA VADZE, DAVID FOR 3.00 MDS.
AVERILL
A.T. STEWART, STAYED ON
REMEMBER MORE DETAILS.
BECKY BALABAN

201: INDICATION THAT RED FIND BEEN MADE
FOR PROV. OP. APPROVAL: WOULD INDICATE
OP. USE INTEREST; WOULD REFER
DOESN'T KNOW CRITERIA FOR OPENING
201's
MANY #'S REMAINED SPON W/O BEING ASSETS.
AGENCY PROPS
WERE ASSIGNED [TO ATSUGI ]
OSWALD.
WHATEVER I MEANT BY.
HARVEY HAD NOTHING
TO DO W/ HIM
COUNTERINT
CI -
SIG : SIGNAL INTELL, BUT NOT SURE
NSA OR MILI MIGHT HAVE PICKED NAME
UP IN TRANSMISSION IF HE HAD
ACCESS TO SUCH

201 SEU OF
REGISTRY COULD ANSWER QUES OF ENTRIES
AG: DOESN'T KNOW
[CLASSES + ENTRIES: DOESN'T KNOW
BELIEVES PER CHARGE MEANS
5084
REGISTRY
NO OP SIGNIFICANCE
OPENING
WOULD BE ROUTINE
WOULD BE ROUTINE IF SIMILARLY OPENED ON
AM
OTHER DEFECTORS
(BRANCH 6 DIDN'T HAVE INTEREST
STATE DIST. WOULD HAVE BEEN PASSED ON FUR
INFO & BACK TO REGISTRY

DOCS
BELIEVES FROM
MEMO HE SAW SEVERAL DISP
WOULD BE NORMAL TO SEE CONSECUTIVE SERIES

PSYCH
PARAMILITARY
FOREIGN CI POL.
LINE DIVISIONS
BELIEVES DOC IS PASSIVE & NOT OPERATIONAL
THEY GOT VISAS TOO EASILY.
UNUSUAL BEHAVIOR"
ON MISSION,
DEFECTION; REASONS UNKNOWN, DISORIENTED
DOESN'T THINK HE WAS SENT BACK
BUT DOESN'T EXCLUDE ROSS.).
MARRIED RUSSIAN.

DOESN'T BELIEVE WE WERE ABLE TO MONITOR HIM
IN SOV. U
-
WOULD HAVE BEEN TOO RISKY
HIS REVEALING MILI SECRETS WOULD HAVE BEEN
OF INTEREST

WOULD MEMO HAVE EXISTED ABOUT HIS INTEREST IN LHO
NOR REMEM DOING SO
DOESN'T THINK SO
NOT
CUSTOMARY
WHAT WAS FIRST UDACID] DISPATCH REL'D
NOTE: C'S MEMO OF 11/25/63 PRESUPPOSES. A LOT OF EARLY
INFO ON O'S ACTIVITIES IN MINSK
