Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: 180-10147-10257
RECORD SERIES: STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

December 8, 1995
Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 5

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 2

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

NW 88326 Docld:32277338 Page 1

---

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

Date: 07/08/95
Page: 1

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: 180-10147-10257
RECORDS SERIES: STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: HSCA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 08/01/77
PAGES: 5
SUBJECTS: REEVES, FLOYD L.

DOCUMENT TYPE: PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS: [R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/26/95
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: Box 3

NW 88326 Docld:32277338 Page 2

---

NW 88326 DocId:32277338 Page 3
OFFICE OF THE CLERK
U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
PERSONAL LEAVE RECORD

REEVES, FLOYD
Name of Employee
Address
Address
Phone Number

1978
YEAR

DATE OF APPOINTMENT: 8-1-77
Position Title
PRIOR FEDERAL SERVICE
Position Number
Level
Step
Years
Months

CATEGORY
BALANCE BROUGHT
FORWARD FROM
PRECEDING YEAR
ACCRUED
THIS MONTH
AVAILABLE
THIS MONTH
USED
THIS MONTH
BALANCE
AT CLOSE
OF MONTH
DAY OF MONTH
Month
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
Annual Leave
Sick Leave
Annual Leave
Sick Leave
Annual Leave
Sick Leave
Annual Leave
Sick Leave
EMPLOYEE
INITIALS
Jan.
Feb.
Mar.
Apr.
May
June
July
Aug.
Sept.
Oct.
Nov.
Dec.

XXX
1.0
1.5
2.0
XXX
/15/78
8
8
8
8
9
9
10
10
11
11

0.5 day annual leave
= 1.0 day annual leave
0.5 day sick leave
= 1.0 day sick leave
= 0.5 day administrative leave
= 1.0 day administrative leave
= 0.5 day unauthorized absence
= 1.0 day unauthorized absence
= 0.5 day leave without pay
= 1.0 day leave without pay

CERTIFIED CORRECT:
Employee's Signature
Date

Approved:
Chief's Signature
Date

Clerk of the House
Date

This record will be forwarded to the Clerk of the House at the end of each calendar year, or in case of termination, along with the request for termination. Upon approval, the record will be filed in the employee's official personnel folder.
EXHIBIT

---

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter or Ballpoint Pen)
U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, D.C. 20515

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last): Floyd L. Reeves
Effective Date: 7/15/78
Employee Social Security Number: 254-66-1801
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee: Assassinations

Type of Action:
☐ Appointment
☐ Salary Adjustment
✓ Termination (At close of business on effective date)
☐ Title Change
☐ Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending close of business) Specify Date

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)
Position Title
Gross Annual Salary*

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. ☐ Standing Committee: Staff -☐ Clerical or ☐ Professional.
2. ☐ Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 465 of 95th Congress.
3. ☐ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)
Position Number
If applicable, Level _______ Step_______

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date: July 7, 1978

(Signature of Authorizing Official)
LOUIS STOKES, CHAIRMAN
(Type or print name and title of above official)
(Title If Member, District and State)

(If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:
Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code
Monthly Annuity $ .00 as of

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326 Docld:32277338 Page 4

---

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter or Ballpoint Pen)
U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, DC. 20515

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last): Floyd L. Reeves
Effective Date: 8/1/77
Employee Social Security Number: 254-66-1801
Employing Office or Committee: Assassinations

Type of Action:
☐ Appointment
☐ Salary Adjustment
☐ Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)
Position Title: Staff Investigator
Gross Annual Salary: $24,000

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. ☐ Standing Committee: Staff - Clerical or ☐ Professional.
2. ☐ Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 465 of 95th Congress.
3. ☐ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)
Position Number
If applicable, Level _______ Step _______

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date: August 1, 1977

(Signature of Authorizing Official)
Louis Stokes
Chairman
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
(Title If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:
Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code
Monthly Annuity $ .00

NW 88326 Docld:32277338 Page 5

---

MEMORANDUM

TO: Mr. Blakey
FROM: Edward M. Evans, Chief Investigator
DATE: July 28, 1977
SUBJECT: Floyd Reeves - Investigator

Mr. Reeves has agreed to take a position with us as Staff Investigator assigned to the Martin Luther King, Jr. Task Force. After an initial period here reviewing the case, he will be assigned to the Atlanta area.

He will start on August 1, 1977 at $24,000.

EME: ek

NW 88326 Docld:32277338 Page 6

---

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF
RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the certification:

father nephew brother-in-law
mother niece sister-in-law
son husband stepfather
daughter wife stepmother
brother father-in-law stepbrother
sister mother-in-law stepsister
uncle son-in-law half-brother
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister
first cousin

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel file. If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget Office immediately of the change.

☐ I am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.
☐ I am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress. (Please specify.)

Date: 8-4-77
Signature:
Employee:

NW 88326 Docld:32277338 Page 7
