```markdown
180-10145-10295

[2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

TRANSMITTAL DOCUMENT RECEIPT 9 June 1978

FROM:
Office of Legislative Counsel
Central Intelligence Agency
Room 7 D 35
Washington, D.C. 20505

Mr. Robert Morrison
House Select Committee on Assassinations
3521 House Annex 02

THE DOCUMENTS LISTED HEREON ARE FORWARDED FOR:
INFORMATION ACTION

CONTROL NUMBER DOC. DATE

XXXXXX RETENTION LOAN

SUBJECT (Unclassified preferred) CLASS.
Tur 73
Sanitized Notes of Betsy Palmer re OS file on Manuel Antonio Ray y Rivero S
14 Feb 74
Sanitized Notes of Betsy Palmer re file on CAS Alpha 66 S

THIS COPY IS NOT FOR RELEASE.
APPROVED FOR USE 1993
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RECEIPT

SIGNATURE (acknowledging receipt of above documents) DATE OF RECEIPT

FORM 37728 10-76

RETURN TO OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
ROOM 7 D 35
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

1 - WHITE, RETURN COPY
2 - PINK, ADDRESSEE HOLD BACK
3 - CANARY, OLC HOLD BACK
10145-10295

SECRET
Betsy Palmer
May 1, 1978

Cable Traffic, Mexico City/Director
October 1963

#72527 to MEXI from DIR dated 10/1/63

1. Basic Hdqtrs position -- assist any responsible anti-Castro group. JURE qualifies. L/2 can give covert assistance but not jeopardize his ops utility. Recommend Lanier contact be maintained.

2. Julio Lanier Hevia one of original members Pro-Unidad Cubana en Exilio formed February 1962.

3. Manolo Ray and Ernesto Betancourt (MEXI 6255) of ELC have had dealings in past and jointly held discussions with U.S. govt. on Cuban problems. Possible therefore Lanier and Betancourt approaches related.

#79557 to MEXI from DIR, dated 31 October 1963

1. Do not wish MEXI station intervene wit Mexi foreign minister behalf JURE reps as this would obviously establish official U.S. support JURE. Hdqtrs not aware [LITAMIL/2] has foreign minister contact but if he can assist on visa problem no objection. Might be useful L/2 make pretense of helping in order appear cooperative to Lanier.

2. Angel Luis Guiu Figueredo was chief military operations MRP in Cuba until took asylum May 1961. WAVE asset mid 62 to mid 63. Rogelio Cisneros Diaz is member JURE Executive Board and former national coordinator MRP in Cuba.

#6455 to DIR from MEXI, dated 9 October 1963

1. JURE rep in Mexico, Julio Lanier Hevia, told LITAMIL/2 that long-range seaplane lined up for use against Cuban soil. Currently used commercially haul shellfish. Based near Tampico. Two JURE leaders coming Mexico soon to inspect it. L/2 will try elicit more details.

c/s Comment: Requested timely reporting re any air strikes being planned or mounted against Cuba by anyone.

Cuban Ambassador to Mexico, 1963 - Joaquin Hernandez Armas:

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

SECRET

SECRET
Betsy Palmer
SERGIO ARCACHA SMITH
September 14, 1965

I Loose Documents
Reply to the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization Service from DD/P stating: Reference is made to the request dated 23 August 1965 concerning Subject (File No. AL 055 004 TC) The files contain no pertinent additional information to that previously forwarded to the FBI in CScl-3/764,414 dated 30 March 1961, subject: Friends of Democratic Cuba

In yellow manila envelope: Letter to agency dated 23 August 1965 referred to above.

II 201-835474 (Personality File Action Request) June 25, 1968

Attended college in Havana

A graduate of Columbia University Law School
Served in Cuban Diplomatic Service before Castro
New Orleans delegate of Frente Revolucionaria Democratico in 1960
Additional info in File 100-300-017

June 9, 1967 Memo for Record
Reference: Brief Comments re: FBI Report, DBB 78940 of 25 April 1967
States: Other sources have stated that Gordon Novel and Arcacha Smith have "marquie" letters granting them immunity and are allegedly employed by CIA.

Garrison's investigation started when Everett Gordon Schaeffer (phonetic) took a deposition from David Ferrie in which Ferrie admitted knowing Lee Harvey Oswald.

November 13, 1975 (outgoing message: on Smith for Customs. DPOB 1923, Cuba. Lawyer: FBI has further information on him.

SECRET

Sergio Arcaeha Smith
Page 2
Betsy Palmer
SECRET
Third Agency Deletions

1. FBI document (DBC-00999) dated 21 Feb. 1967, Classification: not given
Subject: Assassination/JFK Nov. 22, 1963, Dallas, Tex.
File # - not given.

2. FBI document (DBB 78198) dated 30 March 1967, Classification: not given
Subject: Assassination/JFK Nov. 22, 1963 Dallas, Tex.
FBI File #: (S) 62-10960 (Bureau)

3. FBI document, DBB-77295, dated April 10, 1967
Classification: not given
Subject: Assassination/JFK, Nov. 22, 1963 Dallas, Texas
FBI File #: Not given

SECRET
Office of Security File Review
Betsy Palmer
May 1, 1978
SERGIO ARCACHA SMITH
April 28, 1978

1. Search Request on 4/6/67

2. Report deleted, dated 7/19/61 - Third Party Information

3. Sergio visits survivors of Cuban exile infiltration of U.S. who landed in New Orleans and were hospitalized because of their weakened condition. He tried to see them on 3 May 1961 but entrance to the hospital was denied until his bona fides could be established. Visited them on 10 May 1961. Arcacha then head of New Orleans chapter of CRC.

4. Washington Start article, dated 1 April 1967 on Garrison proble - warrent issued for Arcacha's arrest on charges of conspiring to burglarize munitions bunker in 1961 with Gordon Novel.

5. Bio memo - undated. Sergio Arcacha Smith one of promoters of Friends of Democratic Cuba in New Orleans, 6 January 1961. Investigation conducted by a reliable Miami Station asset concluded that FRC organized for personal gain.

6. FBI memo on FRD, 1/18/61, New Orleans, deleted.

7. Memo dated 31 May 1967 by Ramond G. Rocca
Subject: Garrison and the Kennedy Assassination - Gordon Dwane Novel

A. Summary - Novel has both claimed and denied CIA affiliation - a thorough check of CIA records shows no affiliation. It is possible that NBC is supporting Novel to get a large audience for expose of Garrison. Novel may have exaggerated his presumed relationship with Sergio Arcacha Smith who also is not CIA affiliated.

B. Novel is mysterious - little information - 29 year old former owner of bar in French Quarter and an electronics expert.

C. In Columbus, Ohio, Novel is free on $10,000 bond - living in a rent-free apartment and drives a car with dealer tags. Rocca questions where money is coming from.

D. Novel in McLena Virginia 25-26 March 1967. Given a polygraph by Lloyd Furr. Furr and Richard L. Bast operate firm Redex - sell audio and counter audio devices.

E. CIA finds no evidence of ever having an Evergreen Advertising Agency which Novel claims he worked for and was CIA front.

F. Records show CIA never recruited or paid Arcacha directly but since he was associated with FRD in New Orleans, which was created with CIA assistance, guidance anf financial support may have been given him through the Miami FRD circa May 1960.

SECRET
Betsy Palmer
Page 2
Office of Security/Sergio Arcacha Smith

8. Memo dated 28 Septembar 1967 from Donavan E. Pratt
Subject: Garrison Investigation - Queries from Justice Department

Questions prepared by Deputy Assistant Attorney General/ Criminal Division.

A. During 1948-56 period of his association with CTA, what services did Clay Shaw perform for agency?

(Shaw submitted information on international trade which was incorporated into 8 reports - East German directory of firms engaged in such trade; a Czechoslovakian Trade Exhibit; foreign exchange problems in Peru, etc.

B. What was his remuneration? DCS has to supply this information.

C. What were his contacts:

(Contacted by DCS representative in New Orleans seven times 1949, twice 1950, five times 1951, nine times 1952, once 1953, twice 1954, twice 1955 and twice 1956.

C. What was reason for cessation of relationship? Files dont' answer - DCS must furnish answer.

Questions about Sergio Arcacha Smith - same memo.

A. What was his exact relationship with Agency? Never a direct one. Miami FRD headquarters may have mentioned CIA sponsorship to him.

B. What was Agency interest in and support of FRD? Answered above. In the CRC? Had direct access to and support of White House and CIA.

C. CIA interest/support of Crusade to Free Cuba Committee? No record - check with WH/COG

Questions about Gordon Novel - same memo. No CIA connection with Novel or his attorney, Steven Plotkin or his former business partner Rancier Blaise Ehlinger.

Questions about Jack Ruby - No CIA relationship or file.
David Ferrie - No CIA relationship
Richard Rudolph Davis - No CIA relationship
Alvin Beaufouef - No CIA relationship
Guy Banister or Hugh Ward - no CIA relationship
White Russians - no - see pp. 716-23 W Report
De Mohrenschildt - no

Is CIA tapping Garrison's phone - no

Marine training site at Atsugi was removed from the U-2 area to which the Marines did not have access.

SECRET
Betsy Palmer
File Review - Manuel Ray y Rivero Volume III of XVIII
March 30, 1978
December 1960 - January 1961

1. Cable 12/6/60 to Director from [Golda].

Ray contacted by Weisinger and made statement that Isle of Pine's operation failed in his opinion because Bender failed to forward paper to Havana with key to operation.

2. 12/8/60 Cable to Director from WAVE

Ray advised Wiesinger he is departing for Washington same day to visit ERNESTA BETANCOURT of OAS and others. In New York on 12/9 to contact Raul Chibas. Return Miami about 12/11/60.

3. 12/23/60 Cable to Director from Havana indicates Ray wishes return to Cuba as soon as possible and asks that OLIEN make arrangements through his official channel. Doesn't want Cubans in WAVE or Cuba to know of his return.

4. 12/22/60 Information report from U.S. citizen, free-lance writer and part-time sugar broker (DONALD HOGAN)

Says Miro Cardona has accepted teaching position in Puerto Rico effective early January 1961. Is disgusted with bickering among anti-Castro Cubans and will sit on sidelines for time being. Is particularly opposed to Ray -- program is too Marxist and Ray is an opportunist.

5. 1/16/61 Information Report from U.S. national in a U.S. government agency. Source had contact with DR. GUILLERMO SALAZAR SANCHEZ, former Cuban ambassador to Switzerland and DR. SERGIO ROJAS SANTAMARINA, former Cuban Ambassador to United Kingdom. Salazar said he had heard from a reliable source that Ray was not a bona fide defector and still acting on behalf of Castro and is a member of the "Blue Legion". (no further explanation.)

Dr. Salazar mentioned group called "The Ten Unknowns" who are key figures in making Communist policy in Latin America. (Ray not implicated as one of these).

SECRET

SECRET
Betsy Palmer
Review of Manuel Ray y Rivero Files, Volumes I - XVIII (201-239298)
April 6, 1978
VOLUME IV - February 1, 1961 - March 31, 1961

1. Operation Approval granted for Ray's use as a political asset on February 1961

2. Memo to WH/4? Security, From WH/4?CI
Subject: Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo Group
Date: 23 February 1961

Ray pressuring Mr. Droller to have four individuals freed from McAllen Detention Camp who belong to Gutierrez group. Ray claims they are members of his group and have been most active against Castro regime in Cuba. They are as follows: ASENCIO, Suarez, Lazaro
LESNIK, Menendez, Max DPOB 8 Sept 1930,
Vueltas, Las Villas
PORTA Bolanos, Gustavo
REDONDO, Gonzalez, Roger

3. Cable to Bell, from JMWAVE
Date: March 1, 1961

Artime advises that Ray's group opposed to banning Communist Party and in favor of "nationalizing everything". Ray favors maintaining trade with USSR, wants no change in present agrarian reform program.

4. Cable to JMWAVE from Bell
Date: March 10, 1961

INS is concerned over the increased news coverage of Ray's arrival in U.S. and activities here. Afraid they will be confronted about Ray's arrival (which was describad as "black" in another communication) so JMWAVE asked to re-advise Ray that his story is that on 10 Nov 1960, he landed somewhere on Keys in a fishing boat, made way to road where picked up by INS patrol car, taken to WAVE area, examined, declared refuge and released with admonition to always keep INS advised of his address.

5. Memo to S - Dr. Berle, From: ARA - Philip W. Bonsal
Subject: Recent Cuban Developments
Date: March 16, 1961

Conversation with Jose Miro Cardona and Berle, reveals that Cardona has misgivings about Ray and Pazos and the MRP. Says Ray is bitterly anti-American as well as probably totalitarian in his thinking. He no longer believes Ray has any considerable support inside Cuba. Thinks Ray group endeavoring to exercise influence in our government so as to be the major recipient of whatever assistance can be obtained here. He is particularly concerned about the role played by Felipe Pazos.

SECRET

SECRET
Betsy Palmer
Review of Manuel Ray files
Volume IV of XVIII
Page 2

6. Field Information Report
Subject: Background, Character and Economic Concepts of Manuel Ray Rivero
Date: 16 March 1961
Sources:
Dr. Oscar SALAS Marrero (paragraphs 1-11) Knew Ray in Cuba
Dr. Jose ALVAREZ Diaz, former Minister of Finance under Prio (Pg
Dr. Jorge BERUFF, former president of Banco de Desarrollo Economico de Cuba, (pg 13)

Note: Cover note pencilled comment (The content is so biased and mixed with untruth that it would be a disservice to the intelligence community to disseminate it.

Synopsis of paragraphs 1-11. Dr. Salas says during his childhood Ray was a Protestant but today is completely atheistic. Said Ray organized the MRC against Batista and shortly after Batista's fall, MRC and 26th of July Movement fused into one, and as soon as Castro came into power, control of the organization was given to the Communists. Tells of Ray's association with Castro and that he did not resign his position when his own brother was renounced by Castro. Stated that Ray's rupture with Fidel was due to the fact that Ray opposed the idea of shooting Hubert Matos as a traitor. Ray resigned his post but said publicly that he approved and supported the Castro regime without any mental reservations. Says in Cuban clandestine circles Ray is regarded as boastful, ostentatious and deceitful. Intimate friends of Ray feel that he is a man of anti-democratic procedures, and does not like to take advice, even from members of his own movement.

Synopsis of paragraph 12. Dr. Alvarez said Ray was in favor of maintaining relations with USSR and not making Communist Party illegal. Said that although Ray withdrew all these statements when threatened with press coverage, Alvarez thinks they are representative of Ray's thinking and would try to put ideas into practive if he ever came to power. Alverez also mentioned Rays thinking on nationalization of public services, socialized medicine, nationalization of banks, etc.

Synopsis of paragraph 13. Dr. Beruff said Ray well-intentioned with no Communist tendencies. Cited a meeting at which the basic points of the MRP platform were discussed and said that since Ray was in disagreement with the others on most of the points, Dr. Felipe Pazos acted as chairman of the meeting and Ray argued his case as a simple member of the group. Out of this meeting came a declaration of 14 points, including the nationalization of the banks and public utilities.

On 9 March, Ray said that ideas attributed to him in paragraph 12 were not true and part of a "campaign against him by Mr. Pawley of the Miami City Transit Company".

SECRET

SECRET
Betsy Palmer
Review of Manuel Ray files
Volume IV of XVIII
Page 3

7. Report dated March 17, 1961, Marked Urgent

"It has been reported by a very reliable source that Manuel Ray (MRP) is bringing as an Adviser, Professor Fiterre from Habana University - This man Fiterre is an undisclosed Communist that has always openly admitted and braged about being aCommunist.

8. Memorandum for the Record
Date: 27 March 1961
Subject: Ray accepts appointment to Council
Signed: Gerard Droller

Miro was able to convince Ray to join CRC. Thus, as of 27 March 1961, Council's composition isas follows: Chairman: Miro Cardona; Board of Directors: Varona, Hevia, Carrillo, Maceo, Ray and Artime.

9. Memorandum for the Record
Date: 27 March 1961
Subject: Reported Anti-MRP Rally Promoted by Aureliano Sanchez Arango
Signed: B. E. Reishhardt

Julio Lobo reported that Sanchez is planning a rally in Miami, 29 March to protest against the Ray/Pazos combine in the revolutionary council. Writer says, obviously, such a rally at this time could be most damaging and some attempt should be made to get to Sanchez to take the steam out of this maneuver.

SECRET

SECRET
Betsy Palmer
Review of Manuel Ray y Rivero Files, Volumes I - XVIII
April 6, 1978
VOLUME V - April 1961 - July 1961

1. Cable from JMWAVE to Bell
Date: April 3, 1961

Ray meets with Olien and said he was not as yet prepared to join CRC. Said Miro had welshed on commitments and while willing to accept Ray into CRC, not willing to give him any voice in the Council. Olien attempts to convince Ray he was doing great disservice to Cuban people by refusing to serve within CRC.

2. Cable to JMWAVE from Bell
Date: April 4, 1961

"To test actual MRP capabilities inside request you inform Ray to hit targets G, I and K during period 5-10 April. Attack target O including diesel locomotive engines immediately. Will forward additional targets if Ray shows any capability."

3. Letter to Editor (Pencilled note: Propaganda against MRP by Artime's replacement Jose Manuel Hernandez Puentes received from QD Date 6 Apr 61.)

"I am a Cuban who still thinks that Cuba can be rehabilitated after the fall of Castro. For this reason many Cubans have been baffled by the list of names now given as the saviors of Cuba for a Provisional Government. Among these are such notorious Castro followers as: Ray, Barquin, Pazos, Rufo Lopez Fresquet, Chibas and others whose names remind us of an era of mourning, persecution and misery."

4. Report on Manuel Ray received from Enrique Molinet, a road and airfield construction engineer under Batista regime. Cover note dated 4/7/61. Molinet outlines his distaste for Ray, citing at the beginning his refusal to leave Castro even after the questionable suicide of his brother, Rene. After Ray was ousted from his Cabinet job, he continued to visit Castro, occupying a prominent position in all Castro's public appearances. Said that even before Castro, Ray was an active member of the Cuban Orthodox Party, highly infiltrated with communists. Claims that when Ray in his Cabinet position, indoctrinations programs were held expousing communistic ideals. Also while Minister of Public Works, claims he (Ray) threw out hundreds of employees without due cause and destroyed every successful contractor that existed.

5. Memorandum for the Record
Subject: Custody of Revolutionary Council, 19-20 April 1961
Signed: Robert F. Moroney
Date: 24 April 1961

Relates that on 19 April 1961, President Kennedy met with the six members of FRD's Revolutionary Council where President expressed his deep sorrow and concern over the failure of the military effort (Bay of Pigs). Ray one of the Group.

SECRET
Betsy Palmer
Review of Manuel Ray Files
Volume V of XVIII
Page 2

6. Memorandum for the Record
Date: 5 May 1961
Subject: Manolo Ray - Comments on his Anti-Castro Activities
Signed: Calvin Hicks WH/4/PM/Operations

"Ray is balieved to have accomplished pratically nothing towards the effort to overthow Castro. Instead, it seems that whenever we played with his so-called assets, we were burned. He is notorious for claiming assets or operations, several days after some other group had already set them up or claimed them. Whenever it came to producing and backing up his claims, he always came up with excuses for not producing, rather than results. He has always tended to try to take over other goups, rather than cooperate with them, and when he couldn't take them over he would "politic" against them. His actions all seemed to be directed toward making him the future power in Cuba rather than toward overthrowing Castro. It is believed that Manolo RAY is so far "left" in his thinking that he would be as dangerous (or more so in the long run) to United States interests as Castro, if he ever got to be the power in Cuba."

7. Memorandum for the Record
Subject: Relations with Manolo Ray and the MRP
Date: 2 June 1961
Signed: James A. Noel

In a 12 May 1961 meeting, Ray promises to write a prospectus of his plans for MRP within ten days. Not received by 2 June, but Ernesto Betancourt is asking for financial support for MRP activities. Tracy Barnes agrees with Noel that no money should be given Ray until his plans are studies. Ray is asking for support separate from FRD since Ray has withdrawn from this group. Noel further states in Memo, "I would like to point out the security risks inherent in any arrangements with RAY BENTANCOURT-CISNEROS trio. These fellows have had easy access to the White House and to the Department, are notorious for their 'planned leaks', will probably presume all the Department officials they deal with are privy to the arrangement, and before we know it the whole exile community will be well aware that we are providing financial and material support to the RAY group."

8. Cable to Bell from Caracas
Date June 8, 1961
On June 2, Venezuelas government refused to issue a visa to Manolo Ray.

9. Cable to Director from Caracas, dated June 28, 1961. re: meeting with Jose R. Barbeito on 20 June in Valencia. Barbeito claims was member of MRP of Manolo Ray and took part clandestine activities Havana. Admitted was communist "many years ago" but now completely opposed to Castro and Communism.

SECRET

Review of Manuel Ray Files
Volume V of XVIII
Page 3
SECRET
Betsy Palmer

10. Intelligence Report
Date: 7-11 July 1961
Place: San Juan, P.R.
Source: Cuban Exile Lawyer
Evaluation: F-6

Report transmits information concerning activities, persons visited and purpose of visit of Ray to Puerto Rico, terminating when Ray hurridely left Puerto Rico following press account that he had been removed as Coordinator of the MRP.

Source said MRP leaders in exile believe Rays dismissal due to propaganda and pressures by the CIA which brought about the impression that the obstacle to receipt of help from outside (money, arms, etc) was Ray himself and that oner Ray removed, they would receive all types of help. The exile leaders are of opinion that it was also brought about because Ray was a divisionist inasmuch as he had abandoned Cuban Democratic Revolutionary Council.

SECRET

SECRET
Betsy Palmer
Review of Manuel Ray y Rivero Files Volumes I - XVIII
April 6, 1978
Volume VI - August 1, 1961 - June 30, 1962

1. Cable to JMWAVE from Director
Date: August 1, 1961

FBI conducting investigation on MRP and Ray and Director indicates he needs to know purpose of investigation to respond properly.

2. Dispatch from Chief of Base, JMWAVE
Date: August 4, 1961
Subject: Debriefing of Father Bastarrica

Father Bastarrica recently arrived from Cuba as a political exile. At a luncheon meeting, he reported as follows:
MRP formed in Cuba around 26 July 1960. Organizers were Dr. Amalio Fiallo Gonzalez, Dr. Antonio Fernandez Nuevo, Reynol Gonzalez, Humberto Perez Herrera. All these men belonged to group called Accion Democratica. The name of MRP was suggested by Raul Chibas and in itself it does not constitute a party or group but rather a coalition of several small groups, which were the following:
a. The 20 May group, led by Manuel Ray
b. Accion Democratica, led by Dr. Fiallo
c. Accion Verde Olivo, led by Dr. Rufo Lopez Fresquet
d. 30 November Movement, led by David Salvador (never really joined)
e. Chibas' group with Jorge Beruff and Felipe Pazos
f. Dr. Valdez Pino, in asylum in Embassy of Peru and belonged to Accion Democratica.

Father Bastarrica's opinion of Ray is that he had no way of judging whether Ray is Communist or Marxist. Lacks quality of leadership because he does not publically hold to a definite political, social and economic ideology. He appears to agree with every person he talks to, never arguing with them or opposing them, all of which shows he has no ideology and makes him a very dangerous man. Is extremely ambitous for himself, with great desire for power.

3. Memorandum for Chief, WH Division, dated 10 October 1961, from Warren S. Yauger, Subject: General - Cuban Matters; Specific - Manuel (Monolo) Ray
Planning Board of Puerto Rico announced on 9 October 1961 that Ray has accepted position as consultant to that Board. Board is an important agency of Puerto Rican government, attached to the office of the Governor. Has broad powers over economic and social planning and is active in exercising these powers. Ray to receive $12,000 per year. Ray presently in Venezuela but expected to arrive Puerto Rico within a week.

SECRET

SECRET
Betsy Palmer
Review of Manuel Ray y Rivero Files
Volume VI of XVIII
Page 2

4. Cable to Director from JMWAVE, dated May 27, 1962 discusses front page article in Miami Herald of this date by James Buchanan entitled "Miro fades as Exile Chief: Three Latin Leaders Behing Ray". States that Ray has the backing of Gov. Monoz Marin, Pres. Romulo Betancourt and former President Jose Figueras and that Ray has taken over post with blessings of the U.S.

Further states Ray's appointment as "Chief in Exile" came from underground in Cuba according to Joaquin Godoy, Provisional MRP head in Miami. Article credits Cubans in Miami with saying "new man in field" is Adolf A. Berle, Jr. who has been special asst. to State Dept. and is also member of Pres. Kennedy's special task force on Lantin America. Implication being that Berle is running new U.S. sponsored Cuban effort. Release causing furor in local Cuban colony.

Cable to JMWAVE from Director, 28 May 1962 states State Department spokesman will state story without foundation at a noon press briefing this date.

5. Listing of principal persons in Puerto Rico with the MRP
RAY, Manuel PORTELA, J. Migues
PAZOS, Felipe CARMONA, Claudio
BARQUIN, (Col) Ramon ESTEVEZ, Jeromino
MELENDEZ, Juan BERGNUS
GELAVERT ALVAREZ, Gabriel
NODAL, Rodolfo PORTELA, Sara

6. On 9 June 1961, Ray transmitts a detailed study of a general program designed to attain the liberation of Cuba. General Thesis states that MRP believes that the strongest position for representation and canalization of aspirations of the large majority of the Cuban people is offered by the set of ideas and aims of the democratic left.

SECRET

SECRET
Betsy Palmer
Review of Manolo Ray y Rivero Files - Volumes 1 - XVIII
April 24, 1978
Volume VIII - September 4, 1962 - December 27, 1962

1. Telegram Information Report (circa Sept. 10) Unevaluated information.
Ray in the U.S. 8-9 September. Intends forming new organization. Some of those participating with Ray in this effort are Felipe Pazos, Raul Chibas, Ramon Barquin and Justo Carrillo. Ray is of the opinion that nothing will be done about Cuba in the immediate future as the President of the United States is fulfilling "an expedient of a political nature." However, there is an ally in the White House who has assured Ray that if he organizes a purely revolutionary group, he will be heard.

2. Junta Revolucionaria Cubana
Declaration of Principles outline the following areas:

1. Cuban Reaffirmation - recognition of sovereignty of the people, through suffrag
2. Human Rights - human fraternity and social solidarity for all Cubans
3. Social Justice - equality of opportunity for education, work, homes, etc.
4. Economic Development - intense industrialization
5. Agrarian Reform - Cuban pesantry to own land he cultivates
6. International Relations - break with Soviet bloc
7. Restoration of Legitimate Property - not that under public power
8. Political Parties - Communist Party will be proscribed
9. Political Prisoners - immediate release
10. Elections - within 18-month period

3. Dispatch to Chief, Task Force W from Chief of Station, JMWAVE
Date obscured

AMTHRILL-1 provided information on Ray obtained from Silvia KOURI de Pendas, a fellow student of Ray's at Instituto de Segunda Ensenanza #1 in Havana. Ray never know to have sympathy for Communist cause. However, one of his good friends, Pedro Valdes Vivo, is active member of Communist cell and a brother of Raul Valdes Vivo, now sub-director of Communist paper "Noticias de Hoy."

4. Cable to Priority San Juan, Info: Priority JMWAVE, Priority Mexico City
From: Director (Rodriguez originator) dated 9 Oct 1962

Admission visa not pauched 00 forwarding document will be in WAVE hands 10 October for pass ing to Ray. Lechuga is principal target in area of Ray trip. Stress desire keep Lechuga in place in preference to defection.

5. Memorandum for the Record dated 8 October 1962 from Patrick I. Karnley
Subject: Notes on Manolo Ray
In conversation with Luis Laboy, Laboy said Ray does not have any significant following among Cuban exiles -- says Ray is honest person completely motivated by patriotism but lacks qualities of a politician. Says Ray is too blunt and even Cisneros is not happy with him these days.

Puerto Rican Police are apparently canvassing Cuban exiles regarding Manolo Ray. Olin N-1 Report #54 dated 30 Sept 1962, he refers to fact that both he and Fermin Alvarez Silva were visited by officer of PR Internal Security Force soliciting their opinions of Ray.

SECRET

Manuel Ray
Volume VIII continued
SECRET
Betsy Palmer

5. Excerpt from Bohemia Libre 21 October 1962, page 85 Engineer Ray's Latest Attitude

Letter to magazine from Olga Hernandez, Santurce, PR - an exile who believes Ray really a Commmunist. Her reasons based on Ray's statements to "El Mundo" on his arrival in exile that after Castro's defeat there should be maintenance of cultural and economic relations with Russia, maintenance of militia, mainenance of confiscated property, socialized medicine, supervision of national schools and gradual supression of private schools.

SECRET

SECRET
Betsy Palmer
Review of Manuel Ray y Rivero Files, Volumes I - XVIII
April 24, 1978
Volume IX - January 1963 - July 1963

1. Cable to Director from Caracas, dated Feb. 22, 1963

FRANCISCO SUAREZ QUINONES wishes travel to Maimi to attend JURE rally 24 February. In view Ref B (WAVE 2462) info that Suarez communist and also MRP member, DCM has asked if any info that Suarez was undercover agent for MRP or if he may be double agent working for Castro.

2. Confidential Controlled Dissem. dated 3 June 1963
Title: Plan of Manuel Ray Rivero to Infiltrate the Ranks of the Central Intelligence Agency

On 30 April 1963, Rogelio Cisneros reported on meeting of JURE exec. board in his home attended by, among others, Antonio Arias. During meeting, Cisneros said it was mentioned that Ray had issued orders to infiltrate a trusted man into the CIA in order to learn details of any plans with regard to Cuba and if possible infiltrate this man into Cuba. Cisneros also said JURE planning leaflet drop into Cuba which will include such matters as Ray's Manifesto against the U.S. Government and against the CIA.

3. Cable to Director from Paris, dated 19 June 1963 #77272

Ray in Paris - contacted by Jervay. Ray driven to airport by Alberto Baez with whom Ray spent much time and who seems to be closest to Ray among his contacts in Paris. Ray in Paris and Brussels for purpose of turing Franqui and Arcos to agents in place, or defection. Also Cabrera. Ray convinced Cubans here disillusioned with Castro. Asks for update of list of personnel and addresses of all Cuban embassies in Europe to be passed to him in San Juan and [UNRUMBLE] in Paris. Wants to be trained in short wave system between himself and [UNRUMBLE] and station felt these were good ideas and could be done.

4. Memo for the Record from Alfonso Rodreguez, dated 19 June 1963
Subject: Manolo Ray

Ray's attitude towards CIA - feels that the Agency has in the past purposely and actively attempted to destroy him as a political leader and has proof of at least one CIA officer plotted with certain MRP officials to remove him from the Mrp as a condition for CIA assistance to that organization. Ray cannot be overlooked in the struggle for Cuban freedom. "-- of all the Cubans I have met, he is the most purposeful, methodical, as well as the most experienced clandestine operator..."

5. Confidential Controlled Dissem. dated 27 June 1963

Re: Creation of an Intelligence Corps within the JURE
Reliable information from former Rebel Army member (F) active