```markdown
180-10110-10484 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System Date: 10/16/20
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: 180-10110-10484
RECORD SERIES: REPORT ON LEE HARVEY OSWALD'S TRIP TO MEXICO CITY
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: LEE HARVEY OSWALD THE CIA AND MEXICO CITY
DATE: 00/00/1978
PAGES: 393
SUBJECTS:
CIA
CIA, METHODOLOGY, PHOTOSURVEILLANCE
SOVIET EMBASSY
OSWALD, LEE, POST-RUSSIAN PERIOD, TRAVEL, TRIP TO
MEXICO
CUBAN EMBASSY
DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/01/2003
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: Redacted and declassified. Box 1.

NW 48327 DocId:32263889 Page 1

12/15/78
Classification: TOP SECRET Copy # 3 of 3.
(This form is to be used for material extracted
from CIA-controlled documents.)
Part I.
OUTLINE: LEE HARVEY OSWALD, THE CIA AND MEXICO CITY.
I. Introduction. 014972
A. Issues Addressed. (p. 1.)
B. Differences Between the Warren Commission In-
vestigation of Lee Harvey Oswald's Activities
in Mexico City and the House Select Committee
on Assassinations' Investigation. (p. 3.)
C. Conclusions. (p. 5.)
D. Structure and Relevancy. (p. 10.)
II. Central Intelligence Agency Surveillance Operations
in Mexico City in September and October 1963. (p. 12.)
A. Photographic Surveillance Operations Aimed
at the Cuban Diplomatic Compound. (p. 12.)
1. Introduction. (p. 12.)
2. Physical Positioning of Surveillance Bases
and Targets. (p. 12.)
3. Objectives of Operation and Scope of Coverage
Provided. (p. 13.)
4. Disposition of Production from the Operation. (p. 30.)
B. Photographic Surveillance Operations Aimed at
the Soviet Diplomatic Compound. (p. 31.)
1. Introduction. p. 31.)
2. Physical Positioning of Surveillance Bases
and Targets. (p. 31.)
3. Objectives of Operation and Scope of Coverage
Provided. (p. 33.)
4. Procedure and Timing Involved in Processing
Production from the Operation. (p. 45.)
5. Responsibility for the Operation. (p. 47.)
6. Coordination of Photographic and Electronic
Surveillance Operations. (p. 52.)
C. Electronic Surveillance of Telephones at the
Soviet and Cuban Diplomatic Compounds in 1963.
(p. 53.)
1. Existence. (p. 53.)
2. Responsibility. (p. 53.)
a. General. (p. 53.)
b. Analysis and Reporting of Information
Obtained. (p. 54.)
3. Telephone Lines Covered. (p. 56.)

NW 48327 DocId: 32263889 Page 2
© Classified by derivation:

Classification: TOP SECRET
(This form is to be used for material extracted
from CIA-controlled documents.)
Outline: Page Two.
4. Production from Operation.
a. Types. (p. 59.)
b. Handling Procedures. (p. 58.)
(1) Resuma. (p. 59.)
(2) Cuban Tapes. (p. 60.)
(3) Soviet Tapes. (p. 61.)
(a) General Handling. (p. 61.)
(b) Retention and Reuse of Tapes. (p. 62.)
(c) English Language Conversations. (p. 64.)
(d) Handling by Tarasoffs. (p. 66.)
(e) Expedited Procedure for English
Language Coversations or other
Conversations of Special Interest. (p. 67.)
(f) Handling in the Station. (p. 70.)
(g) Format of Transcripts. (p. 71.)
c. Voice Comparisons. (p. 72.)
III. Information About Lee Harvey Oswald's Stay in Mexico
that was Known by the CIA Mexico City Station Prior
to the Assassination of John Kennedy and the Sources
of that Information.
A. Information that was Available. (p. 72.)
2001064
1. Information Available to the Mexico City
Station from Electronic Surveillance Aimed
at the Soviet Consulate and Military Attache's
Office. (p. 73.)
a. September 27, 1963, Friday. (p. 73.)
b. September 28, 1963, Saturday. (p. 76.)
c. October 1, 1963, Tuesday. (p. 78.)
d. October 3, 1963, Thursday. (p. 79.)
2. Information Available to the Mexico City CIA
Station from CIA Headquarters. (p. 80.)
3. Information Available to the Mexico City Station
from Electronic Surveillance Aimed at the Cuban
Diplomatic Compound. (p. 81.)
4. Information Available to the Mexico City Station
from Photographic Surveillance of the Soviet and
Cuban Diplomatic Compounds. (p. 81.)
5. Possibility that Additional Information from the
Electronic Surveillance on the Soviet Compound
was Available to the Mexico City Station. (p. 82.)

NW 48327 DocId: 32263889 Page 3
© Classified by derivation:

Classification: TOP SECRET
(This form is to be used for material extracted
from CIA-controlled documents.)
Outline: Page Three.
6. Possibility that the CIA Photosurveillance
Obtained a Photograph of Lee Harvey Oswald.
(p. 90.)
a. Missing Materials. (p. 91.)
b. Likelihood that the Photosurveillance
Operation would have Missed Oswald.
(p. 91.)
c. Reports of the Existence of a Photograph.
(p. 93.)
(1) Phillip Agee Allegation. (p. 93.)
(2) Daniel Stanley Watson Allegation. (p. 97.)
(3) Joseph Burkholder Smith Allegation.
(p. 99.)
(4) Joseph Piccolo, Jr. Allegation. (p. 102.)
(5) Statements of Dan Niescuir. (p. 105.)
d. HSCA Investication of the Possibility that the
Mexico City Photosurveillance Operation Produced
a Photograph of Lee Harvey Oswald. (p. 107.)
(1) Introduction. (p. 107.)
(2) Investigation of the Allegations. (p. 108.)
B. Information Connected to Lee Harvey Oswald by the
Mexico City Station Prior to the Assassination.
1. Introduction. (p. 115.)
2. Information Available from the Soviet Wiretaps
that was Connected with or involved Lee Harvey
Oswald. (p. 116.)
3. When were the irtercepted Conversations Linked
to Lee Harvey Oswald? (p. 120.)
4. The Photograph of the Mexico Mystery Man. (p. 122.)
IV. Reconstruction of the CIA Mexico City Station an Head-
Quaters Actions Prior to the Assassination of President
F. Kennedy.
A. Introduction--CIA Interest in and Liaison with FBI
Regarding American Cityizens in Contact with Soviet
Bloc Embassies in Mexico City. (p. 123.)
B. Narrative of Mexico City Station Actions Prior to
The Assassination. (p. 124.)
V. Mexico City Station Reporting of Information Concerning
Oswald After the Assassination...
A. Reporting of Information Concerning the Photograph
Classification: TOP SECRET
2000665
NW 48327 DocId: 32263889 Page 4
Classified by derivation:
314

Classification: TOP SECRET
(This form is to be used for material extracted
from CIA-controlled documents.)
Outline: Page Four.
of the Mexico Mystery Man. (p. 178.)
B. Reporting of Information Concerning Lee Harvey
Oswald from the Electronic Intercept Operation
Aimed at the Soviet Embassy. (p. 180.)
PART II
C. Silvia Duran. (p. 184.)
VI. Information Not Available at the Time of the Warren
Commission Investigation.
2000666
A. Silvia Tirado (nee Duran). (p. 191.)
1. House Select Committee on Assassinations
6/6/78 Interviewo of Silvia Tirado.
(p. 191.)
2. CIA Information Not Available at the Time of
the Warren Commission Investigation. (p. 194.)
a. LIRING/3 Allegation. (p. 194.)
b. Possibility that Silvia Duran was an Agent
for either American, Mexican or Cuban
Intelligence. (p. 197.)
(1) Was Silvia Duran an Agent, Asset, or
Source for Mexican or American Intel-
ligence? (p. 197.)
(2) Was Silvia Duran a Cuban Intelligence
Agent? (p. 201.)
3. The Cubans. (p. 202.)
1. Eusebio Azcue Lopez. (p. 202.)
2. Alfredo Mirabal Diaz. (p. 205.)
C. Elena Garro de Paz. (p. 206.)
1. Elena's Story as Reported October 5, 1964.
(p. 206.)
2. October 12, 1964, CIA Memo for the Record.
(p. 208.)
3. November 24, 1964, CIA Informant Report.
(p. 209.)
4. November 24, 1964, Elena Garro Meeting with
Mexico City Legal Attache Officers. (p. 210.)
Classification: TOP SECRET
NW 48327 DocId: 32263889 Page 5
Classified by derivation:
345

Classification: TOP SECRET
(This form is to be used for material extracted
from CIA-controlled documents.)
Outline: Page Five.
5. Charles Thomas Meeting with Elena Garro on
December 10, 1965. (p.
6. Charles Thomas' Meeting with Elena Garro on
December 25, 1965. (p. 216.)
7. December 27, 1965, Legal Attache Memo to the
United States Ambassador re Elena Garro. (p. 221.)
8. CIA Investigation of Elena's Allegation that
She Created a Disturbance at the Cuban Embassy
on November 23, 1963. (p. 223.)
9. Legal Attache 2/23/66 Memo to the United States
Ambassador Regarding Elena Garro's Allegation.
(p. 225.)
10. Legal Attache Memo to Winston Scott re Elena's
Allegation that She Had Stayed at the Hotel
Vermont from the Day After the Assassination
Until November 30, 1963. (p. 225.)
11. Charles Thomas' September 30, 1969, Letter to
State Department and Legal Attache's Response.
(p. 226.)
12. House Select Committee on Assassination's In-
vestigation of Elena Garro's Allegations.
(p. 228.)
D. Oscar Contreras Lartigue. (p. 235.)
VII. Analysis of Lee Harvey Oswald's Activities in Mexico
City.
A. Introduction. (p. 240.)
B. Did Lee Harvey Oswald or an Imposter Contact the
Cuban and Soviet Consulates in Mexico City? (p. 242.)
C. What were Lee Harvey Oswald's Activities in Mexico
City? (p. 250.)
D. Was Lee Harvey Oswald Alone, While He Travelled to
Mexico? (p. 259.)
Appendix I: HSCA Procedural Write-up: Cuba Trip 1. (p. 261.)
Appendix II: HSCA Procedural Write-up: Mexico Trip 1.
(p. 265.)
Classification: TOP SECRET
2000667
NW 48327 DocId: 32263889 Page 6
Classified by derivation:
346

Classification: TOP SECRET
(This form is to be used for material extracted
from CIA-controlled documents.)
Outline: Page Six.
Appendix III: HSCA Procedural Write-up: Mexico Trip 2.
(p. 273.)
Appendix IV: HSCA Procedural Write-up: Cuba Trip 2.
(p. 287.)
Appendix V: Biography: Elena Garro de Paz. (p. 297.)
Appendix VI: Glossary of Terms Used in Report. (p. 301.)
Appendix VII: Listing of CIA Documents Cited. (p. 305.)
Classification:
2000663
NW 48327 DocId: 32263889 Page 7
Classified by derivation:
347

Classification:
(This form is to be used for material extracted
from CIA-controlled documents.)
ADDENDUM TO FOOTNOTE # 614 OF "LEE HARVEY OSWALD, THE CIA
AND MEXICO CITY.
Some controversy has arisen in regard to the question
of whether the tapes existed at the time of the assass-
ination due to a memorandum from J. Edgar Hoover to the
head of the Secret Service which said:
The Central Intelligence Agency advised that
on October 1, 1963, an extremely sensitive
source had reported that an individual iden-
tified himself as Lee Oswald, who contacted the
Soviet Embassy in Mexico City inquiring as to
any messages. Special Agents of this Bureau,
who have conversed with Oswald in Dallas,
Texas, have observed photographs of the indi-
vidual referred to above and have listened to
a recording of his voice. These Special Agents
are of the opinion that the above-referred-to
individual was not Lee Harvey Oswald.
(Memorandum from Hoover to James J. Rowley, 11/23/63,
pp. 4-5.) The HSCA has determined that this statement
was probably based on another FBI memorandum which said:
Inasmuch as the Dallas Agents who listened to the
tape of the conversation allegedly of Oswald
from the Cuban Embassy to the Russian Embassy in
Mexico and examined the photographs of the visitor
to the Embassy in Mexico and were of the opinion
that neither the tape nor the photograph pertained
to Oswald, I requested Shanklin to immediately
send a photograph of Oswald to our Legal Attache.
(Memorandum from Belmont to Tolson, 11/23/63, p. 1. Mr.
Belmont was reporting the results of a conversation with
the Special Agent in Charge in Dallas, Gordon Shanklin,
that occured at 11:50 A.M.).
2000664
NW 48327 DocId: 32263889 Page 8
Classification:
Classified by derivation:
348

Classification:
(This form is to be used for material extracted
from CIA-controlled documents.)
ADDENDUM: Page Two.
Later that same day SAC Shanklin informed the Director
that the tape of Oswald's voice had been erased: "It
should be noted that the actual tape from which this
transcript was made has been erased." (Teletype from
SAC Dallas to Director, # 232220, 7:30 P.M. CST, 11/23/63.
Emphasis in the original.)
The confusion about whether or not there was a tape
apparently continued for several days after the SAC in
Dallas informed the Director that such a tape did not
exist. On 11/25/63 the FBI Legat in Mexico City sent a
Cablegram to the director which said:
There appears to be some confusion in that no
tapes were taken to Dallas but only typewritten
transcripts supplied by CIA, the tapes not being
available because they had been erased.
(Cablegram # 182 & 183, F. 2.)
The FBI was asked to explain the paragraph from the
Hoover memorandum quoted above. It responded:
The paragraph appearing on pages 4 and 5 of the
leterhead memorandum, which is quoted in your
(FBI) request of March 17, 1978, contains some
incorrect information regarding a tape recording
of the voice of an individual who identified him-
self as Lee Oswald.
Retrievable information contained in files
of the FBI indicates that this Bureau received
information derived from transcripts of tape
recordings furnished by another government
agency which conducts intelligence type inves-
Classification:
2000665
NW 48327 DocId: 32263889 Page 9
Classified by derivation:
349

Classification:
(This form is to be used for material extracted
from CIA-controlled documents.)
ADDENDUM: Page Three.
tigations. The transcripts indicated that on
September 28, 1963, and October 1, 1963, the
voice of an individual identifying himself as
Lee Oswald was recorded by the other govern-
ment agency conducting intelligence type inves-.
tigations. Additionally, this government agency
provided the FBI with photographs of an individ-
ual who appeared to be an American; these photo-
graphs being taken by said agency on October 1,
1963.
It is noted that the FBI never received the
actual tape recordings from which the transcripts
were derived, as the tapes were erased by the
other government agency providing the transcripts....
As a result, no FBI employee ever listened to a
tape recording purporting to contain Lee Harvey
Oswald's voice as no tape was ever provided to
this Bureau.
(JFK Classified Document # 131.) No FBI agent interviewed
by the Committee recalled listening to any tape recording
purporting to contain a corversation involving Oswald.
Classification:
2000666
NW 48327 DocId: 32263889 Page 10
Classified by derivation:
350

Classification:
(This form is to be used for material extracted
from CIA-controlled documents.)
UY, INTRODUCTION
A. Issues Addressed
The House Select Committee on Assassinations'
investigation into Lee Harvey Oswald's activities in Mexico City
has been directed at answering the following questions:
1) Did Lee Harvey Oswald visit the Soviet and
Cuban Consulates or Embassies in Mexico City?
2) In addition to the visits which may have been
made to the Embassies, what were Lee Harvey
Oswald's activities while he was in Mexico City?
3) Was Lee Harvey Oswald alone in Mexico City?
If not, who were his associates and what were
their activities?
4) Did the Central Intelligence Agency maintain
any surveillance operation(s) aimed at the
Cuban and Soviet diplomatic missions in
Mexico City? If so, what kind?
5) What information, if any, about Oswald's
stay in Mexico was known by the CIA
Mexico City Station prior to the
assassination and what was the source of
that information?
Classification:
2000667
NW 48327 DocId: 32263889 Page 11
Classified by derivation:
351

Classification:
(This form is to be used for material extracted
from CIA-controlled documents.)
-2-
6) Was the information, if any, in the
possession of the CIA Mexico City
Station reported to the CIA Headquarters
accurately and expeditiously prior to
the assassination?
7) Was the information in the possession of the
CIA Mexico City Station reported
to the CIA Headquarters accurately and
expeditiously after the assassination?
8) Was the information developed by the
CIA in Mexico City communicated to the
Warren Commission in an accurate and
expeditious manner?
9) Did the CIA photo-surveillance of the
Cuban and Soviet diplomatic compounds in
Mexico City, if such photo-surveillance
existed, obtain a photograph of Lee
Harvey Oswald? If so, what became of
that photograph?
Classification:
2000663
NW 48327 DocId: 32263889 Page 12
Classified by derivation:
352

Classification:
(This form is to be used for material extracted
from CIA-controlled documents.)
-3-
B. Differences Between the Warren Commission
Investigation of Lee Harvey Oswald's
Activities in Mexico City and the House
Select Committee on Assassination's
Investigation.
The approach taken by this Committee's investigation
differs from that of the Warren Commission primarily
in terms of scope. The Warren Commission and the
investigative agencies at its disposal went to
great lengths to establish Oswald's travel to and
from Mexico, but devoted minimal effort to
evaluating Oswald's contacts with the Cuban and
Soviet Consulates. It is the conclusion of this
Committee that the Warren Commission correctly
established that Oswald hac traveled to Mexico
City. Hence, this Committee has chosen not to
reinvestigate Oswald's travel to and from Mexico City.
Instead, the Committee's approach has been to focus
narrowly an Oswald's contacts with the Soviet and
Cuban diplomatic missions In Mexico City and on
evidence that was not avai able to the Warren
2000663
NW 48327 DocId: 32263889 Page 13
Classification:
Classified by derivation:
353

Classification:
(This form is to be used for material extracted
from CIA-controlled documents.)
-4-
Commission that could possibly shed light on
Oswald's activities in Mexico City outside of the
Soviet and Cuban installations.
The Warren Report limited its discussion of
Oswald's contacts with the Soviet and Cuban diplomatic
missions to information obtained from Sylvia Duran
and the Cuban Government. 1/
At one point in the Report the Commission referred
to other information:
By far the most important confirmation
of Senora Duran's testimony, however, has been
supplied by confidential sources of extremely high
reliability available to the United States in
Mexico. The information from these sources
establishes that her testimony was truthful and
accurate in all material respects. The identities
of these sources cannot be disclosed without
destroying their future usefulness to the
United States.2/
The Warren Commission did not print anything in
the twenty-six volumes of evidence to support
its statement that Silvia Duran's testimony was.
confirmed by "confidential sources of extremely
high reliability."
Classification:
2000663
NW 48327 DocId: 32263889 Page 14
Classified by derivation:
354

Classification:
(This form is to be used for material extracted
from CIA-controlled documents.)
-5-
In an attempt to answer the questions posed by
Lee Harvey Oswald's visit to Mexico City in September
and October of 1963, the House Select Committee on
Assassinations has pursued the following investigative
procedure:
1) Conducted extensive interviews, depositions,
and executive session hearings involving
Central Intelligence Agency personnel;
2) Interviewed Cuban citizens who could have
knowledge of Oswald's sojourn in Mexico;
3) Interviewed Mexican citizens who could have.
knowledge of Oswald s activites and
associations while he was in Mexico;
4) Conducted an extensive review of the files
of the Central Intelligence Agency and the
Federal Bureau of Investigation that
pertain to Oswald and Mexico City.
C. Conclusions
1) Someone who identified himself as
Lee Harvey Oswald called the Soviet
Classification:
2000663
NW 48327 DocId: 32263889 Page 15
Classified by derivation:
355

Classification:
(This form is to be used for material extracted
from CIA-controlled documents.)
-6-
individual indicated that he had
visited the Soviet Consulate at least
once. Other evidence from the CIA
wiretaps, and witness testimony, indicates
that the individual visited the Soviet
and Cuban Consulates on five or six
different occasions. While the
majority of the evidence tends to
indicate that this individual was indeed
Lee Harvey Oswald, the possibility that
someone else used Lee Harvey Oswald's
name during this time in contacts with
the Soviet and Cuban Consulates cannot
be absolutely dismissed.
2) This Committee has not been able to
determine Lee Harvey Oswald's activities
outside of the Cuban and Soviet Embassies
with certainty. There is a report, which
has not been confirmed, indicating that
during his stay in Mexico Oswald attended
a "twist party" at the home of Ruben
Duran Navarro, the brother-in-law of
Classification:
2000663
NW 48327 DocId: 32263889 Page 16
Classified by derivation:
356

Classification:
(This form is to be used for material extracted
from CIA-controlled documents.)
-7-
Silvia Duran. There is also unconfirmed
evidence which, if true, would indicate
that Oswald spert one night and parts of
two days with a group of pro-Castro
students from the University of Mexico.
3) There is a report that Oswald may have
been in the company of a tall, thin,
blond-headed mar while in Mexico. This
report has not been confirmed. If
true, it is possible that this same
individual may, on occasion, have used.
Oswald's name in dealing with the Cuban
and Soviet Consulates. The man's name,
if there was such a man, is not known.
4) On the dates that Oswald was in Mexico,
the CIA had photographic surveillance
operations which covered entrances to
the Soviet Embassy and the Cuban Embassy
and Consulate. The CIA also had electronic
surveillance on telephones in the Soviet
Consulate and Military Attache's Office
and Cuban diplomatic compounds. The
Classification:
2000663
NW 48327 DocId: 32263889 Page 17
Classified by derivation:
357

Classification:
(This form is to be used for material extracted
from CIA-controlled documents.)
-8-
telephone at the Cuban Consulate was not
subject to that surveillance.
5) The CIA's Mexico City Station definitely
knew of Oswald's contacts with both the
Soviet and Cuban diplomatic compounds
and of his desire to obtain an intransit
visa for travel to Russia via Cuba.
The source of this information was the
electronic surveillance on the Soviet
Consulate and Soviet Military Attache's
Office.
6) All information in the possession of the
CIA Mexico City Station was not reported
to CIA Headquarters in an accurate and
expeditious manner prior to the assassination.
7) With the exception of a few, possibly
benign, irregularities, and considering
the possibility that not all of the
information ava lable to the Station has
been provided to this Committee, the
information in the possession of the
CIA Mexico Stat on was reported in ane
Classification:
2000663
NW 48327 DocId: 32263889 Page 18
Classified by derivation:
358

Classification:
(This form is to be used for material extracted
from CIA-controlled documents.)
-9-
accurate and expeditious manner after
the assassination to headquarters.
8) With the exception of those areas that
involved sensitive sources and methods,
such as the information pertaining to the
electronic and photographic surveillance
of the Soviet and Cuban diplomatic
compounds, information developed by
the CIA in Mexico was generally relayed
to the Warren Commission in an accurate
and expeditious manner.
9) It is the conclusion of this Committee
that the CIA's photo-surveillance
operations in Mexico City probably
obtained a photograph of Lee Harvey
Oswald entering either or both the
Soviet and Cuban Consulates. The CIA
denies that such a photograph exists.
Hence, the dispostion of this photograph
is unknown.
Classification:
2000663
NW 48327 DocId: 32263889 Page 19
Classified by derivation:
359

Classification:
(This form is to be used for material extracted
from CIA-controlled documents.)
-10-
10) The CIA telephone surveillance on the Sov-
iet Embassy taped several calls of a man
using the name 'Lee Oswald." These tapes
were retained for a routine two week period
and were most likely erased shortly after
16 October 1963. These tapes were probably
existence at the time of the assassination.
11) The Committee is aware of the allegations
that Silvia Tirado de Duran may have been
an intelligence agent for either the Cubans,
Mexicans or Americans. Ms. Duran was pro-
bably never employed by Cuban intelligence.
While there is no direct evidence on the
question other than Ms. Duran's denial, the
Committee believes that the circumstantial
evidence that tends to indicate that Ms.
Duran had a relationship of some type with
either Mexican or American intelligence is
of such a nature that the possibility can
not be dismissed.
Classification:
2000663
NW 48327 DocId: 32263889 Page 20
Classified by derivation:
360

Classification:
(This form is to be used for material extracted
from CIA-controlled documents.)
-10-
D. Structure and Relevancy
The following report detailing the results
of this Committee's investigative efforts regarding
Mexico City is divided into general areas:
1) CIA surveillance operations in Mexico
City during September and October of
1963;
2) Information about Lee Harvey Oswald's
stay in Mexico City that was known prior
to the assassination;
3) Reconstruction of the CIA Mexico City
Station and Headquarters activity
regarding Oswald prior to the assassination;
4) Mexico City reporting of information
after the assassination;
5) Witnesses from the Cuban Consulate;
6) Investigation of related information
that was not available to the Warren
Commission; and
7) Reconstruction of Oswald's activities
in Mexico City.
Classification:
2000663
NW 48327 DocId: 32263889 Page 21
Classified by derivation:
361

Classification:
(This form is to be used for material extracted
from CIA-controlled documents.)
-11-
The reader should be advised at the outset
that the first section following is technical in
nature and may not appear directly relevant at
first blush. But the report is cumulative in nature.
The specific, detailed analyses of the standard
operating procedures in the first section are
necessary to, and form a partial basis for, the
reconstruction of the Mexico City Station's
handling of the Oswald case. There are many gaps
left by the documentary and testimonial evidence
concerning the manner in which the CIA's Mexico
City Station and Headquarters reacted to Oswald's
presence in Mexico City. A knowledge of the
way in which the Mexico City Station operated and
the procedures involved in those surveillance
operations which detected Oswald is valuable in
filling the gaps of the specific case which is the
subject of this report.
II. Central Intelligence Agency Surveillance Operations
in Mexico City in September and October 1963
Classification:
2000663
NW 48327 DocId: 32263889 Page 22
Classified by derivation:
362

Classification:
(This form is to be used for material extracted
from CIA-controlled documents.)
-12-
A. Photographic Surveillance Operations Aimed
at the Cuban Diplomatic Compound
1. Introduction
The Mexico City Station of the Central
Intelligence Agency maintained photographic
surveillance on the Cuban diplomatic compound during
September and October of 1963.3/ The purpose of
this operation was to get identifiable photographs of
all individuals who visited the Cuban diplomatic
compound.4/
2. Physical Positioning of Surveillance
Bases and Targets
The Cuban diplomatic compound covered one
city block in Mexico City between Tacubaya, Francisco
Marquez and Zamora Streets. The entrance to the Cuban
Embassy was located on the corner of Tacubaya and
Francisco Marquez.5/. Next to this entrance on
Francisco Marquez Street was another entrance for
automobiles.6/ The entrance to the Cuban Consulate,
Classification:
2000663
NW 48327 DocId: 32263889 Page 23
Classified by derivation:
363

Classification:
(This form is to be used for material extracted
from CIA-controlled documents.)
-13-
which was in a separate building from the Embassy,
was located on the corner of Francisco Marquez and
Zamora.7/. The CIA surveillance post was located
at 149 Francisco Marquez Street.8/ An agent
photographed visitors to the Embassy from one
window in the third floor apartment at 149 Francisco
Marquez Street.9/. A pulse camera covered the
entrance to the Consulate from a second window in the
same third floor apartment.10/
3. Objectives of Operation and Scope of
Coverage Provided
One CIA officer, who claimed to have had a
marginal role in this surveillance operation, remembers
that they had trouble covering both the Cuban
Embassy entrance and the Consulate entrance.11/. "The
Cuban Embassy coverage had more sophisticated equipment
using a pulse camera which frequently developed
mechanical difficulties."12/ Two former CIA employees
who were in Mexico City in 1963 remembered that there
were two cameras covering the Cuban diplomatic
compound. 13/ Ms. Goodpasture, a case officer in the
Classification:
2000663
NW 48327 DocId: 32263889 Page 24
Classified by derivation:
364

Classification:
(This form is to be used for material extracted
from CIA-controlled documents.)
-14-
Mexico City Station, testified that she could not
remember the locations of the two cameras.14/ David
A. Phillips, Chief of the Cuban Section in the Mexico
City Station, testified that the Consulate entrance
was covered along with the Embassy entrance.15/ Mr.
Phillips was not absolutely sure of his recollection,
but thought that it was possible that the Embassy
entrance had been covered by a manned photographic base
and the Consulate entrance was covered by a pulse
camera.16/
The CIA staff technician who serviced the
cameras and trained the agents at the CIA photographic
base that covered the Cubar compound was interviewed
by the House Select Committee on Assassinations. The
technician stated that he had set up the cameras in
the photographic base at the inception of an
operation in the early 1960's designed to provide
photographic surveillance of the