Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10318
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995
Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 5

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 2

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

NW 88326
DocId:32243284 Page 1
Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW 88326 Date: 2025

---

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
Date: 08/20/93
Page: 1

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10318
RECORDS SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR: HSCA
FROM:
TO :

TITLE :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
DATE : 08/15/77
PAGES : 5

SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
BROWN, WILLIAM

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/07/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :
Box #: 1.
[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 88326
DocId:32243284 Page 2

---

BROWN, William
Name of Employee

Address
Address
Phone Number
Position Title
Level
Step

OFFICE OF THE CLERK
U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

PERSONAL LEAVE RECORD
1978
YEAR

DATE OF APPOINTMENT
8-15-77

PRIOR FEDERAL SERVICE
Years Months

BALANCE BROUGHT
FORWARD FROM
PRECEDING YEAR
Annual Sick
Leave Leave

ACCRUED
THIS MONTH
Annual Sick
Leave Leave

AVAILABLE
THIS MONTH
Annual Sick
Leave Leave

USED
THIS MONTH
Annual Sick
Leave Leave

BALANCE
AT CLOSE
OF MONTH
Annual Sick
Leave Leave

CATEGORY
DAY OF MONTH
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31

☑
XXXXX
= 0.5 day annual leave
= 1.0 day annual leave
= 0.5 day sick leave
= 1.0 day sick leave
= 0.5 day administrative leave
= 1.0 day administrative leave
= 0.5 day unauthorized absence
= 0.5 day leave without pay
= 1.0 day leave without pay
= 1.0 day unauthorized absence

CERTIFIED CORRECT:
Employee's Signature
Date
(if employee refuses to sign, state reason below.)

Chief’s Signature
Date

Approved:
Clerk of the House
Date

This record will be forwarded to the Clerk of the House at the end of each calendar year, or in case of termination, along with the request for termination. Upon approval, the record will be filed in the employee's official personnel folder.

EXHIBIT I
NW 88326
DocId:32243284 Page 3

---

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter or Ballpoint Pen)
U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, D.C. 20515

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:
I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)
William Brown

Effective Date
7/15/78

Type of Action
☐ Appointment
☐ Salary Adjustment
☐ Title Change
☑ Termination (At close of business on effective date)
☐ Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending close of business...)
Specify Date

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

Employee Social Security Number
098-20-3132

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee
Assassinations

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)
Position Title
Gross Annual Salary*

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)
1. ☐ Standing Committee: Staff—☐ Clerical or ☐ Professional.
2. ☑ Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. 465 of 95th Congress.
3. ☐ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)
Position Number
If applicable, Level Step

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date July 7, 1978

LOUIS STOKES, CHAIRMAN
(Signature of Authorizing Official)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:
Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code
Monthly Annuity $ .00

NW 88326
DocId:32243284 Page 4

---

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter or Ballpoint Pen)
U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, D.C. 20515

☐ To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:
I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)
William Brown

Effective Date:
8/15/77

Type of Action
☑ Appointment
☐ Salary Adjustment

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

Employee Social Security Number
098-20-3182

Employing Office or Committee
Assassinations Committee

☐ Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)
Position Title
Staff Investigator
Gross Annual Salary
$24,000.00

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)
1. ☐ Standing Committee: Staff -☐ Clerical or ☐ Professional.
2. ☑ Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 465 of 95th Congress
3. ☐ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)
Position Number
If applicable, Level Step

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date August 16, 1977

LOUIS STOKES
(Signature of Authorizing Official)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees; except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:
Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code
Monthly Annuity $ .00

NW 88326
DocId:32243284 Page 5

---

MEMORANDUM

TO: Professor G. Robert Blakey
FROM: Cliff Fenton
DATE: August 15, 1977
RE: Recommendations for employment - William Brown

It is recommended that Mr. William Brown be hired immediately to the position of Senior Investigator at a salary of $24,000 per annum. Having obtained the highest rank of Detective First Grade in the New York City Police Department, Detective Bureau, his experience has been extensive in all areas of criminal investigation.

Mr. Brown's long range of experience will be beneficial to our investigation and will be an asset to the JFK Task Force.

APPROVED:
Kenneth D. Klein
Assistant Deputy Chief Counsel

NW 88326
DocId:32243284 Page 6

---

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF
RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the certification:

father nephew brother-in-law
mother niece sister-in-law
son husband stepfather
daughter wife stepmother
brother father-in-law stepbrother
sister mother-in-law stepsister
uncle son-in-law half-brother
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister
first cousin

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel file. If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget Office immediately of the change.

☑ I am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.
☐ I am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.
(Please specify.)

Signature of Employee
Date 8/15/77

NW 88326
DocId:32243284 Page 7
