```markdown
Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10453
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995

Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 10

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United
States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 4

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could
reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 1

---

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

Date: 08/20/93
Page: 1

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10453
RECORDS SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
ORIGINATOR : HSCA
FROM :
TO :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

TITLE :
DATE : 08/29/77
PAGES : 51
SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
JOHNSON, LILLIAN
DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/04/93
OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :
Box 2.
[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 2

---

MEMORANDUM

TO: Thomas Howarth, Budget Officer
FROM: I. Charles Mathews, Special Counsel
DATE: December 19, 1977
RE: Lillian Johnson

This memorandum is to inform you that Lillian
Johnson is on administrative leave from December 9, 1977
until January 9, 1978. She should continue on the pay-
roll for that period of time plus any additional vacation
that she has not yet taken.

If you have any questions concerning this matter,
please contact me.

ICM:jl
NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 3

---

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF
RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and
Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of
Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's
monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of
each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification
is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the
certification:

father nephew brother-in-law
mother niece sister-in-law
son husband stepfather
daughter wife stepmother
brother father-in-law stepbrother
sister mother-in-law stepsister
uncle son-in-law half-brother
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister
first cousin

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date
this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel
file. If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget
Office immediately of the change.

[X] I am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.
[ ] I am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.
(Please specify.)

L. Johnson
Signature of Employee
8/31/77
NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 4

---

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
Lillian B. Johnson 8/29/77
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action
577-56-7465 [X] Appointment
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee [ ] Salary Adjustment
Assassinations [ ] Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary
Secretary $13,000

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. [ ] Standing Committee: Staff - [ ] Clerical or [ ] Professional.
2. [ ] Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 465 of 95th Congress.
3. [ ] Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number If applicable, Level Step

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives.
Date August 31, 1977
(Signature of Authorizing Official)
Louis Stokes
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
Chairman
(Title If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:
Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code Monthly Annuity $ .00
NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 5

---

RESUME ROUTING FORM

Johnson, Lillian
Secretarial
[X] Self
[ ] Other
$13,500
8-10-77
Logged by
Received
[ ] Congressional
Referral
Comments on Referral
Abstracted by
Acknowledged by
Staff Component
Review by
Recommended
Action:
Date
8-10-77
Date
Date
[ ] File
[ ] Interview
[ ] Hold
Refer
REQUEST FOR
APPOINTMENT
Interviewer: Hutton / Mathews
REQUEST FOR
REFERENCES
[ ] Hold for
Hired as
INSTRUCTIONS
Klein
Suggested date
Suggested time
Confirmed
date
Confirmed
time
Date Notified by
of 8-29-77
FINAL
INTERVIEW
REQUEST
BY
LETTER OF
NOTIFICATION
Suggested date
Suggested time
Confirmed
date
Confirmed
time
Acceptance/Date of employment
Rejection
NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 6

---

RESUME

LILLIAN BARBARA JOHNSON
7516 Forest Road
Landover, Maryland 20875
(301) 772-3341(H)
(202) 755-6808(O)

Position Desired - Administrative Assistant/Secretarial

Experience - District of Columbia

5/77 - Present Department of Housing and Urban Development
451 7th Street, S.W. Clerk-typist

12/76 - 2/77 1977 Presidential Inaugural Committee
2nd & "T" Streets, S.W.
Administrative Assistant/Site Coordinator

9/76 - 11/76 Congressional Budget Office
2nd & "D" Streets, S.W. Secretary

7/76 - 9/76 Stuart Temporaries, Inc.
1120 -19th Street, N.W. Secretary

8/74 - 9/75 Arent, Fox, Kintner, Plotkin & Kahn
18th & "H" Streets, N.W. Legal Secretary

11/73 - 8/74 Temporaries, Inc., 1015 18th Street, N.W.
Secretary

5/13 - 6/14 Longworth House Office Building, N.J. & "C"
Streets, S.E. Secretary

1/73 - 8/73 Model Inner Cities Community Organization
9th & "U" Streets, N.W. Executive Secretary

3/70 - 3/71 American Association of Junior Colleges
One Dupont Circle, N.W. Secretary

2/68 - 1/70 Harbridge House, Inc.
2100 "M" Street, N.W. Support Secretary

5/67 - 1/68 Tabulating Research & Development Agency
14th & "K" Streets, N.W. Secretary

5/66 - 5/67 Georgetown University, 37th & "O" Streets, N.W.
Clerk-typist

NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 7

---

-2- Resume - Lillian B. Johnson Cont'd

Education:

1/72 - 7/74 Strayer College, 13th & "G" Streets, N.W.
Studied Court & Conference Reporting, Stenotype,
Legal reporting and advanced vocabulary

9/63 - 6/64 Johnson's Business School, 14th & N.Y. Avenue,
N.W. Secretarial Course

9/59 - 6/62 Graduate of Dunbar High School, 1st & "N"
Streets, N.W. Commercial Courses

Skills: Stenotypist 100 - 140 wpm. Typist 75 - 80 wpm

Personal: Seeking opportunity for career professional position
willing to start as trainee, willing to travel occasionally

Divorced
One daughter age 8 years.

NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 8

---

February 7, 1977

Dear Ms. Johnson:

President Carter and Vice President Mondale have asked us to express
their sincere appreciation to you for your most commendable efforts in
support of the 1977 Inauguration.

The Inauguration of the President of the United States is a moment in
history that serves as a vehicle to communicate to the world the commit-
ment and spirit of the New Administration.

It is with this in mind that I forward this letter to you as a member of
the Inaugural Security and Credential Committee. You displayed the high-
est degree of professionalism and dedication in many important tasks.

You were always willing and ready to work long hours, above and beyond
the normal work day. You volunteered your services for almost anything
asked of you.

Throughout the planning and implementation period, you were faced with
an everchanging list of requirements. Your dedication to duty, under-
standing of the difficulties faced by the Inaugural Committee, and
cooperative attitude are indicative of a true professional. Your over-
all manner of performance was truly outstanding.

If we had the power today, each of you would receive a tangible medal
of citation for the highest award of Volunteer Action. Possessing only
words, we say again, thank you for all the service given so unselfishly.

Sincerely,

Frank Wilson, Director
Security & Credentials Committee

Donald Brock, Deputy Chief
In Charge of Internal Security

NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 9

---

LILLIAN BARBARA JOHNSON
served with distinction on behalf of the
Armed Forces of the United States
at the Inauguration of
Jimmy Carter
on the twentieth day of January,
one thousand, nine-hundred seventy-seven
in Washington, District of Columbia

Bardyl R. Tirana Robert G. Berks
Vicki Rogers Major General USA
Co-Chairpersons Chairman
1977 Inaugural Committee

NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 10

---

THE WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON

February 3, 1977

To Lillian Johnson

I deeply appreciate your dedicated and
untiring work on the 1977 inauguration.
The inaugural program was a great suc-
cess, open to all of our citizens. This
would not have been possible without the
unselfish help, cheerful spirit and long
hours freely given by volunteers such
as you.

You have helped to set an example of what
we Americans can accomplish by sharing
our talents and energies with each other.
Many thanks.

Sincerely,

Jimmy Carter

Miss Lillian Johnson
7516 Forest Road
Landover, Maryland 20875

NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 11

---

Your assistance with the 1977 Inauguration meant a
great deal to me personally. More importantly, it was a great
example of what we Americans can accomplish by sharing
our talents and energies with each other.

Jimmy Carter

NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 12

---

Life Experience: Inauguration of President and Vice President
of the United States, 1977 Presidential
Inaugural Committee, Washington, D.C.

Competency Statement Position Descriptors

As Site Coordinator &
Administrative Assistant
of the Inaugural Committee's
Security & Credential division,
I have:

A. Acquired knowledge as to how
legislative priorities are set

B. Held high level administrative
responsibility in operating the
office

C. Supervised productivity, flow of
work and overall operations of
our office with top United States
Secret Service officials and
congressional members.

D. Through the concept of creative
office leadership I have assisted
in planning, organizing and con-
trolling the operations of presi-
dential security

E. Utilize techniques to help main-
tain good employee relations
through effective supervision,
delegation, evaluating, training,
and thorough communications with
USSS.

F. Arranged and made contacts with
top USSS agents, presidential
advance team, and congressional
members for indepth security
conferences.

NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 13

---

AMENDMENT TO
PERSONAL QUALIFICATIONS STATEMENT
IMPORTANT: Read these instructions carefully before completing this form.

OMB
APPROVED 50-R0048

This form may be used to update your Personal Qualifications Statement provided you have had no more than three additional positions since the statement being
updated was completed. Agencies are required to accept a previously completed Personal Qualifications Statement as current when this form is attached. Before
completing this form, review carefully your answers to all items on the statement being updated. Use typewriter if available. Otherwise write or print legibly in
dark ink.

1. NAME (Last) (First) (Middle) (Maiden, if any) [ ] MR. [X] MISS [ ] MRS.
AND ADDRESS (Number, Street, City, State, and ZIP Code)
JOHNSON, Lillian Barbara Killens
7516 Forest Road
Hyattsville, Maryland 20875

4. KIND OF POSITION YOU ARE FILING FOR (Or title and number of announcement)
Security Assistant 15-21 (77)A
6. LOWEST PAY OR GRADE YOU WILL ACCEPT
PAY GRADE

2. DATE OF THIS STATEMENT 3. BIRTH DATE (month, day, year)
May 17, 1977 December 6, 1943
5. REASON FOR SUBMISSION (Check One)
[ ] To update Personal Qualifications Statement in my Official Personal Folder
[ ] To update Personal Qualifications Statement on file with you
[X] To update attached Personal Qualifications Statement
[ ] As requested

7. EXPERIENCE (Start with your PRESENT position and work back. Account for periods of unemployment in separate blocks in order)

May inquiry be made of your present employer regarding your character, qualifications, and record of employment? [ ] Yes [X] No (A "No" will not affect your
consideration for employment opportunities.)

DATES OF EMPLOYMENT (month, year) EXACT TITLE OF POSITION IF FEDERAL SERVICE, CIVILIAN OR
FROM May 9, 1977 TO PRESENT TIME Clerk-typist MILITARY GRADE
5
SALARY OR EARNINGS AVG. HRS. PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT NUMBER AND KIND OF KIND OF BUSINESS OR ORGANIZATION
STARTING $ 179. PER Week PER WEEK CITY: Washington, EMPLOYEES SUPERVISED (manufacturing, accounting, insur-
FINAL $ PER STATE: D.C. 0 Housing & Urban Development
NAME OF IMMEDIATE SUPERVISOR NAME OF EMPLOYER (firm, organization, etc.) AND ADDRESS (including ZIP Code, if known)
Charles Field Department of Housing & Urban Development (HUD)
Washington, D.C. 20410
REASON FOR WANTING TO LEAVE Seeking position involving more responsibility and opportunity
DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES, AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS Prepare in final form a variety of materials
including correspondence, staff studies, technical papers, memoranda and issue papers
which include the use of terminology that is highly specialized. Responsible for
maintenance of subject matter files for the staff. (Even though this job description
does not indicate), I have taken dictation and transcribed it for the Special
Assistant to the Assistant Secretary for Housing and Urban Development. Perform all
secretarial duties.
FOR AGENCY USE (skill codes, etc.)

DATES OF EMPLOYMENT (month, year) EXACT TITLE OF POSITION IF FEDERAL SERVICE, CIVILIAN
FROM TO OR MILITARY GRADE
SALARY OR EARNINGS AVG. HRS. PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT NUMBER AND KIND OF KIND OF BUSINESS OR ORGANIZATION
STARTING PER PER WEEK CITY: EMPLOYEES SUPERVISED (manufacturing, accounting,
FINAL $ PER STATE: insurance, etc.)
NAME OF IMMEDIATE SUPERVISOR NAME OF EMPLOYER (firm, organization, etc.) AND ADDRESS (including ZIP Code, if known)
AREA CODE AND PHONE NO. IF KNOWN
REASON FOR LEAVING
DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES, AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS
FOR AGENCY USE (skill codes, etc.)

THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IS AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER Standard Form 172, January 1972
U.S. Civil Service Commission
172-102
NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 14

---

DATES OF EMPLOYMENT (month, year) EXACT TITLE OF POSITION IF FEDERAL SERVICE, CIVILIAN
FROM TO OR MILITARY GRADE
SALARY OR EARNINGS AVG. HRS. PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT NUMBER AND KIND OF KIND OF BUSINESS OR ORGANIZATION
STARTING PER PER WEEK CITY: EMPLOYEES SUPERVISED (manufacturing, accounting, insur-
FINAL $ PER STATE: ance, etc.)
NAME OF IMMEDIATE SUPERVISOR NAME OF EMPLOYER (firm, organization, etc.) AND ADDRESS (including ZIP Code, if known)
AREA CODE AND PHONE NO. IF KNOWN
REASON FOR LEAVING
DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES, AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS
FOR AGENCY USE (skill codes, etc.)

8. Space for explaining other changes or additions to the qualifications statement being updated. If any answer to an item on the qualifications statement being
updated is incorrect or incomplete as of the date of this amendment, identify the item by number and explain. (Check one) [ ] Other changes or additions
listed below [ ] No other changes or additions.
ITEM NO.

If more space is required, use full sheets of paper approximately the same size as this page. Write on EACH sheet your name, position (or title and number
of announcement) filing for, and date of the qualifications statement being updated. Attach all sheets to this form.

CERTIFICATION SIGNATURE (Sign in ink)
I CERTIFY that the statements made by me on this form update my Personal Qualifica- Lillian B. Johnson DATE SIGNED
tions Statement completed 5/17/77 (month, year) and are true, complete, and
correct to the best of my knowledge and belief, and are made in good faith.
FALSE STATEMENT ON THIS FORM IS PUNISHABLE BY LAW

NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 15

---

1A. Kind of position (job) you are filing for (or title of B. Announcement No.: *DO NOT WRITE IN THIS BLOCK
announcement) Administrative Asst. FOR USE OF EXAMINING OFFICE ONLY
Entered Register:
Appor.
C. Options for which you wish to be considered (if listed in announcement) Nonappor.
Legislative Aide Notations:
Material
D. Primary place(s) you wish to be employed Submitted
Washington, D.C., Metropolitan area Returned
2. Home phone (including Area Code) 3. Office phone (including Area Code) Form Reviewed:
772-3341 (301) 775-5860 Form Approved:
4. Name (Last) (First) (Middle) (Maiden, if any) [ ] Mr. [X] Miss [ ] Mrs. Option
and Address (Number, Street, City, State and ZIP Code) Grade
JOHNSON, Lillian Barbara Killens Earned
7516 Forest Road Rating
Hyattsville, Maryland 20875 Preference Aug.
5. Legal or voting residence (State) Rating
District of Columbia Initials and Date
6. Height without shoes 7. Weight [Tent.]
5 Feet 7 Inches 135 lbs [ ] 3 points
8. Birthplace (City and State, or foreign country) [ ] 10 Points [ ] Comp. Disab.
District of Columbia Other
9. Birth date (Month, day, year) 10. Social Security Account Number [ ] 10 Points Disab. Being
12/6/43 577-56-7465 Investigated
11. If you have ever been employed by the Federal Government as a civilian, give your THIS SPACE FOR USE OF APPOINTING OFFICER
last classification series, grade, and job title. Preference has been verified through proof that the sep
GS-318-5 under honorable conditions, and other proof as required.
Clerk-typist [ ] S-PL [ ] 10-Pt. Comp. Disab. [ ] 10-PL
Dates of service in that grade Signature and Title
From To Agency
May 9, 1977 Present time Refer for medical action Date
12. If you are currently on a list of eligibles for appointment to a Federal position, give
the name of the announcement, the name of the office maintaining the list, the date
on your notice of rating, and your rating.
Stenographer and Typist
United States Civil Service Commission
Federal Register
April 25, 1977 Typist 4 Steno 5
13. Lowest pay or grade you will accept 14. When will you be
PAY GRADE available?
Per Yr. OR 5 upon
notification
15. Will you accept temporary employment for: YES NO 16. Where will you accept a job? YES NO 17. Will you accept less than full time?
(Acceptance or refusal of [ ] month or less? [X] Washington, D.C. [ ] (Less than 40 hours per week) [ ]
temporary employment will [ ] to 4 months? [ ] Any place in the United States.
not affect your consideration [X] 4 to 12 months? [ ] Outside of the United States.
for other appointments. ) [ ] Only in (specify): metro area [X]
19. VETERAN PREFERENCE. Answer all parts. If a part does not apply to you, answer "No." 18. Are you willing to travel? (Check one)
[ ] NO [ ] SOME
A. Have you ever served on active duty in the United States military service? (Exclude tours of active duty for training as a reservist or Guardsman.) [X]
B. Have you ever been discharged from the armed services under other than honorable conditions? (You may omit any such discharge changed [ ]
to honorable by a Discharge Review Board or similar authority.)
If "Yes," give details in Item 37.
C. Do you claim 5-point preference based on active duty in the armed forces? [ ]
If "Yes," you will be required to furnish records to support your claim at the time you are appointed.
D. Do you claim 10-point preference? [ ]
If "Yes," check type of preference claimed and complete and attach Standard Form 13, "Claim for 10-point Veteran Preference," together with the proof
in that form
TYPE: [ ] Compensable disability [ ] Disability [ ] Wife [ ] Widow
E. List Dates, Branch, and Serial or Service Number of All Active Service (Enter "N/A" if not applicable)
From To Branch of Service Serial or Service Number
N/A
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IS AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER Standard Form 171
Page 1 May. 1975 U.S. Civil Service Commission
171-105
NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 16

---

May inquiry be made of your present employer regarding your character, qualifications, and record of employment?. [ ] Yes [X] No
(A "No" will not affect your consideration for employment opportunities except for HEARING EXAMINER positions. )
Dates of employment (month, year) Exact title of position Security-Credentials If Federal service, civilian or military
1 From 12/30/76 To PRESENT TIME Site Coordinator/Secretary grade
Salary or earnings Avg. hrs. Place of employment Number and kind of employees Kind of business or organization
Starting $150.00 per wk per week City: Washington supervised several-100 manufacturing, accounting, insurance,
Present $ Same per State: D.C. volunteers 1977 Inaugural Committee
Name of immediate supervisor Name of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known)
Frank Wilson, Director 1977 Inaugural Committee, 2nd & "D" Streets, S.W.
Area Code and phone No. if known 202/472-4350 Washington, D.C. 20024
Reason for wanting to leave Job is terminating on 1/31/77
Description of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments Instructing several sub-committees within the
Inaugural Committee on procedure and preparation of security clearance forms.
Processing and preparing S.C. forms for security pick-up. Communication by phone
on a very large scale with Secret Service, White House and many other agencies for
Inauguration. Worked with the director preparing and designing security credentials.
Sat-in on meetings Security & Press Personnel, took dictation and kept minutes.
Operated the Command Post at Visitors Center. Typed letter, memorandums, etc.,
Presently working on After Action Report. Served as central point of information concerning activities of the office.
For agency use (skill codes, etc.)
Dates of employment (month, year) Exact title of position If Federal service, civilian or military
2 From 9/76 To 11/76 Secretary/Personnel Asst. grade
Salary or earnings Avg. hrs. Place of employment Number and kind of employees Kind of business or organization
Starting $ 10,096. per yr. per week City: Washington supervised (manufacturing, accounting, insurance,
Final $ same per State: D.C. none etc.) Federal
Name of immediate supervisor Name of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known)
Carl McCarden/Alicia McPhee Congressional Budget Office
Area Code and phone No. if known 202/225-6666 2nd & "D" Streets, S.W.
Reason for leaving Temporary position
Description of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments Secretary in Budget Analysis Division, Human Resource
and Personnel Office. Worked with several Analyst. Typed up proposals, budget
reports, general correspondence and telephone communications. Operated the
Vydec Computer in all divisions.
For agency use (skill codes, etc.).
Dates of employment (month, year) Exact title of position If Federal service, civilian or military
3 From 7/76 To 9/76 Secretary/Legal Asst. grade Temporary Agency
Salary or earnings Avg. hrs. Place of employment Number and kind of employees Kind of business or organization
Starting $4.75 per hr. per week City: Washington supervised (manufacturing, accounting, insurance,
Final $ Same per State: D.C. none etc.) secretarial agency
Name of immediate supervisor Name of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known)
Ms. Susan Heuser Stuart Temporaries, Inc.
Area Code and phone No. if known 1120 -19th Street, N.W.
Reason for leaving Temporary placement agency.
Description of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments Worked on several legal assignments on short-term.
Secretary to attorneys. Performed general secretarial duties, typing drafts,
briefs, other correspondence, and telephone communication.
For agency use (skill codes, etc.).
Page 2
IF YOU NEED ADDITIONAL EXPERIENCE BLOCKS USE STANDARD FORM 171-A OR BLANK SHEETS
SEE INSTRUCTION SHEET
NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 17

---

20. EXPERIENCE (Start with your PRESENT position and work back. Account for periods of unemployment in separate blocks in order.)
May inquiry be made of your present employer regarding your character, qualifications, and record of employment?. [ ] Yes [ ] No
(A "No" will not affect your consideration for employment opportunities except for HEARING EXAMINER positions.)
Dates of employment (month, year) Exact title of position If Federal service, civilian or military
4 From 8/74 To PRESENT TIME Legal Secretary grade
9/75
Salary or earnings Avg. hrs. Place of employment Number and kind of employees Kind of business or organization
Starting $ 10,500 per Yr. per week City: Washington supervised (manufacturing, accounting, insurance,
Present $ same per State: D.C. 0 etc.) Law Firm
Name of immediate supervisor Name of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known)
JoAnna McAtee Arent, Fox, Kintner, Plotkin & Kahn
Area Code and phone No. if known 1815 "H" Street, N.W., Washington, D.C.
Reason for wanting to leave laid off
Description of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments Legal Secretary to several attorneys in the firm,
in areas of litigation, real estate, tax, labor, Federal Communications-took
dictation, wrote letters of general correspondence, kept records, typed briefs,
proposals, etc. Telephone communications with clients and other firms, etc.
For agency use (skill codes, etc.)
(THE NEXT THREE JOBS LISTED BELOW WERE COURSE RELATED WHILE ATTENDING STRAYER COLLEGE)
Dates of employment (month, year) Exact title of position If Federal service, civilian or military
5 From 11/73 To 8/74 Secretary grade
Salary or earnings Avg. hrs. Place of employment Number and kind of employees Kind of business or organization
Starting $ 4.50 per hr. per week City: Washington supervised (manufacturing, accounting, insurance,
Final $ per State: D.C. 0 etc.) Secretarial Service
Name of immediate supervisor Name of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known)
Clara, Bob Temporaries, Inc., 1015 -18th Street, N.W.
Area Code and phone No. if known Washington, D.C.
Reason for leaving temporary job
Description of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments Gained experienced in working with many law firms
in the area as Legal, Executive, Statistical and Technical Secretary on short-term
assignments.
For agency use (skill codes, etc.)
Dates of employment (month, year) Exact title of position If Federal service, civilian or military
6 From 4/73 To 6/73 Transcriber grade
Salary or earnings Avg. hrs. Place of employment Number and kind of employees Kind of business or organization
Starting $ 3.50 per hr. per week City: Washington supervised (manufacturing, accounting, insurance,
Final $ per State: D.C. 0 etc.) Reporting Agency
Name of immediate supervisor Name of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known)
Doris Hoover Hoover Reporting Agency
Area Code and phone No. if known 3rd & Mass. Ave., N.E., Washington, D.C.
Reason for leaving Course related - for experience mostly.
Description of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments Transcriber of reporters notes from courtroom
hearings.
For agency use (skill codes, etc.)
Page 2
IF YOU NEED ADDITIONAL EXPERIENCE BLOCKS USE STANDARD FORM 171-A OR BLANK SHEETS
SEE INSTRUCTION SHEET
NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 18

---

May inquiry be made of your present employer regarding your character, qualifications, and record of employment?. [ ] Yes [ ] No
(A "No" will not affect your consideration for employment opportunities except for HEARING EXAMINER positions.)
Dates of employment (month, year) Exact title of position If Federal service, civilian or military
7 From 9/73 To 7/74 Student reporter grade
Salary or earnings Avg. hrs. Place of employment Number and kind of employees Kind of business or organization
Starting $ per week City: Washington supervised (manufacturing, accounting, insurance,
Present $ per State: D.C. 0 etc.) Reporting Agency
Name of immediate supervisor Name of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known)
Bernie Richards BGH Reporting Agency
Area Code and phone No. if known 24th & Penn. Ave., N.W., Washington, D.C.
Reason for wanting to leave Course related - for experience only.
Description of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments
Sat-in on public hearings and took minutes of hearings and observed courtroom
procedures. Transcribed notes.
For agency use (skill codes, etc.)
Dates of employment (month, year) Exact title of position If Federal service, civilian or military
8 From 5/13/74 To 6/14/74 Legal Secretary grade
Salary or earnings Avg. hrs. Place of employment Number and kind of employees Kind of business or organization
Starting $ 4.50 per hr. per week City: Washington, supervised (manufacturing, accounting, insurance,
Final $ same per State: D.C. 0 etc.) Congressional Office
Name of immediate supervisor Name of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known)
Marilyn Shapiro Congresswoman Elizabeth Holtzman
Area Code and phone No. if known Longworth House Office Bldg., 3rd & C Sts. S.E.
Reason for leaving Temporary position
Description of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments Worked with research group on impeachment of Pres.
Richard M. Nixon, wrote letters to constituency around the country, handled phones,
took dictation and transcribed.
For agency use (skill codes, etc.)
Dates of employment (month, year) Exact title of position If Federal service, civilian or military
9 From 3/70 To 3/71 Secretary grade
Salary or earnings Avg. hrs. Place of employment Number and kind of employees Kind of business or organization
Starting $ 6,500 per yr. per week City: Washington, supervised (manufacturing, accounting, insurance,
Final $ 7,000 per State: D.C. 0 etc.) Educational Asso.
Name of immediate supervisor Name of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known)
Dr. John Mallan American Association of Junior Colleges
Area Code and phone No. if known One Dupont Circle, N.W., Washington, D.C.
Reason for leaving Moved to N.Y.C.
Description of duties, responsibilities,