180-10145-10265 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted from CIA-controlled documents.)

THIS FOLDER CONTAINS NOTES ON CLASSIFIED MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS AND NOTES GENERATED UPON ACCOUNTABLE PAGES HEREIN

HSCA STAFF MEMBER:

PAGE NUMBERS OF NOTES ON CLASSIFIED MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA:

ALL PAGES HEREIN ARE ACCOUNTABLE.
NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FOLDER.

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM
RETURN TO CIA

Classification: 10145-10265

Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

--- Page 2 ---

SECRET

Contact Report
11110717

Pursuant to critical publications and specific statements by former CIA employee James Wilcott that LHO was a CIA agent, Staff Investigator Harold Leap interviewed the following CIA personnel to determine if Wilcott's statements had validity relating to the Oswald agent issue.

1. Robert P. Whitten, DOB Oct 15, SSN 258-17-0844. 6600 Millwood Rd, Bethesda, Maryland, telephone no. 229-6368. Position with CIA, Deputy Chief of Station, Tokyo, Japan, June 60 to May/July 64. Interviewed 4-13-78.

2. Leo Rosenbaum DOB 2 Dec 23, SSN 122-14-202. 1815 Opaloche Dr., Mc Lean, VA, telephone 356-5283. Position with CIA for the period June 63 to June 65, Chief of Counter Intelligence, SR Branch, [Tokyo Japan]. Interviewed 4-10-78. Subject is retired.

3. Hope Irene Mason, DOB 24 May 33, SSN [018-26-3500] Subject presently employed at CIA Hqs and has cover position with the CIA in 1963 at [Tokyo Station] was Intelligence assistant for the SR section. Interviewed at CIA 4-11-78.

4. Frederick C. Randall, DOB 28 Oct 26, SSN 508-20-4068, Presently employed and has cover. Randall's position with the CIA from Sept 61 to Aug 65 was chief of existing at the [Tokyo Station]. Interviewed 4-7-78.

THIS COPY IS NOT FOR RELEASE.

--- Page 3 ---

5. James S. Wood, DOB 2 File 28, SSN presently employed at CIA. Wood's position from approximately July 62 to July 67 at [Tokyo Station] as Finance and Officer. Interviewed 3-31-78.

6. George von Britzel, DOB 12 Dec 21, SSN 074-18-5912, 14801 Springfield Rd, Germantown, MD, telephone 948-6908, former case officer, [Tokyo, Japan] SRB from July 27 to July 67. Interviewed 4-10-78. Presently retired.

7. Howard M. O, DOB 22 Jul 22, SSN 275-12-4377, Address 8405 Weller Ave, Mc Lean Va, Telephone 893-3325, presently retired. Positions with CIA, HDQS 59-61 KSR Div [Tokyo 61-63 (Case officer; SB.), HDQS, SR Dir, desk officer for [Japan] interviewed 4-11-78.

8. George A. Gill, DOB 29 May 21, SSN Address 27 Bay Tree, North Myrtle Beach, South Carolina, Telephone 803-249-3193. Presently retired. Gill was chief of the Soviet Branch at the [Tokyo Station] from June 1960 to June 1965. Interviewed 4-29-78.

--- Page 4 ---

SECRET
11110713

9. Robert M. Keith, DOB 11 Aug, SSN 257-78-6051 address 2011 Glen Way Dr. Sanford, Fla. 32771, telephone 305-323-7434 former case officer at [Tokyo Station, SR Branch] from Jan 59 to Oct 63. Interviewed 4-30-78

10. Jerome E. Fox DOB 9 Oct 18, SSN Address 3663 NW 21st, Miami, Fla. telephone 305-634-2997 former CIA intelligence analyst at [Tokyo Station] from Jul 1959 to -military intelligence worked in program involving. Interviewed 5-1-77

11. William V. Broe, DOB 24 Aug 13, SSN 032-01-816. Address 111 Indian Trails Scituate, mass telephones, 617-545-6113. Former CIA [COS Tokyo, Japan from 1961 to 1965 Interviewed 5-1-77

12. William Crawford, DOB 19 Sept. 24, SSN 429-26-4954 address 4944 Car St. Apt 906 San Diego, Ca. 92109 Telephone 714-272-2770 former CIA executive officer at Atsugi air base in charge of the 4.2 program. (Details of interview conducted 5-14-78 submitted separate report).

--- Page 5 ---

The above individuals were selected for interview because of the position they held with the CIA at the [Tokyo Station] during the time frame of 1959 to 1964.

James Wilcott made gave testimony in a closed hearing before the HSCA that a CIA case officer stationed in [Tokyo, Japan] told him that LHO was a CIA agent and gave mentioned cryptonyms. The conversation took place in the [Tokyo Station] shortly after the word of the JFK assassination received on 23 Nov 63. Wilcott stated that the case officer could not recall the cryptonyms. Wilcott also advised that considerable conversation took place among CIA employees at [Tokyo] at the time concerning the Oswald - CIA agent issue.

The basic questions asked of the CIA employee selected were as follows:

(a) Have you seen written documents which would indicate that LHO was a CIA agent?

(b) Have you ever heard conversation or been advised orally that LHO was a CIA agent or source for a government intelligence position?

(c) Were you in a position to know if LHO was recruited as an "agent" during his tour of duty with the military in Japan?

--- Page 6 ---

(d) When was the first time you heard the allegation that LHO was a CIA agent.

(e) Did you know James B. Wilcott?

All individuals interviewed stated they had not seen documents that would indicate that LHO was a CIA agent. Only after critical publication in the late 1970s and the HSCA investigation did they heard any information of the allegation.

Subjects 2, 7, 8 express belief that LHO would have been recruited by the KGB during his tour of duty in Japan. They based their belief on the fact that during the period of time that LHO was in Japan, the CIA [station] in [Tokyo] had identified LHO as a KGB program specifically double directed designed to recruit U.S. military personnel in [Tokyo]. However they had no information that the recruitment of LHO by the KGB did in fact take place.

--- Page 7 ---

Subject Jerome E. Fox was specifically the one person who Wilcott could remember with whom he had conversation with concerning speculation that LHO was a CIA. The conversation supposedly took place in [Japan] after the information received LHO was the assassin of JFK. Fox advised investigator Leap that he was in the U.S. at the time of assassination 23 Nov 63. Fox's CIA personnel reflects he was transferred from the [Tokyo Station] to the U.S. in 1962.

Subjects 2, 7, 8, 9 and 11 all thought they would have known had LHO have been recruited as a CIA agent while he was in Japan. All the subjects worked with the SR Branch of [Tokyo Station] and theoretically one of them would have handled the recruitment. All had knowledge of the working guidelines of the [station] and thought that had Oswald have been recruited with out their knowledge it would have been a rare exception.

--- Page 8 ---

SECRET

Memo

Wilcott, James Bernard, for Security

FBI-100-457761

May 9 1969 - Subject

Mall oc-

Securely ever

Matter - Student

concerning the issue

Garraghy nothing.

Polygraphically interview

by James Ayle of ISO

Daniel

29 Sept 65 bf Prellen

area favorable in the

of morals, loyalty

and associates etc, and there

were no evidences of deception.

Subject considered a very

naive man

FBI informed that the problem

has been resolved.

11110302

SECRET

--- Page 9 ---

SECRET

Do 6616 on 716.5

Your

Hou Keshely

personnel file

Wilcott, James B. ZR.

Wilcott,

DOB 09-07-31

Personnel file

09-15-63

DDP/FE FOREIGN FIELD, [FE/JKO

[TOKYO STATION] SUPPORT STAFF

POSITION - FISCAL ACCT ASST

FITNESS REPORT

REPORT 26 APR 65 - 15 APR 66

"Subject was barely adequate performing his assigned tasks.

11 Oct 64 to 25 Apr

Subject considered proficient and described as operative and dependable

1 Jul 63 to 30 Jun

Subject considered proficient-Remarks

Subject has formed his duties in competent

Specific duty responsible

Ces Station cashier

The daily receipt and disbursement of cart [Japanese yen] U.S. dollars, MPC)

Jul 62

SECRET

30 Jun

Subject considered proficient

11110303

--- Page 10 ---

SECRET

261 to 32

27 May 60

Competent

SECRET
