[180-10143-10100]
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

098000

CRED

meticulous files.

memo to Legal at same time as cable.

SECRET

10143-10100

Goldsmith
(13165)
0002451

Notes re Hardway summary of Am.c. tapes, transcript, + cables.

Premi to transcriptions generally rather than verbatim.

"previously transcribed" material is not in the Materials.

Marginal notations that are "are Handway examined.

Spanish transcripts - poor quality.

Why would there have been Spanish Transcripts?

5 transcripts for 9/15, 9/16/63 are missing.

Holmes' explanation is that [intercept] activity weekends.

Transcription too may have translates from.

9/27/63 to Odessa M.U. seeking visa.

same person call another call 1:25

call back at 10:37 G.m

LHO 4:05 pm

Duran to M. LHO who was in Soviet emb.

Conversation who was then at CHO.

4:26pm J. Sous (emb) still at emb)

apparent that Lito ined bell at amb cada

Win Scott sought to id Costner in red; (I)

9/28/63 apple-to 9/2

Duran Jove emb; CHO talks to S.O. (CH2 to go 1 comb) LHO.

10/1/63 Lito for infis

apparent that Ho wat lekke at from Pont

10:31 a.m. pom bly (Ho calling & teleg from

10:45. to tely. teley With.

CHO to grind in reference

WHO identifies Corell [ith previously transbe

SECRET

Sou embre viva [previously transbed]

10/3/63

0002452 Cull to

10/1/65 #6344

10/3/63 6374 • missing

DIR 72527 re Phillips

re phillips Offain

1068

Correct date of photo 10/1 + hole or coleriole.

10/8/63 cable 6455

Mcs - HQ. • nepts LHO visit.

10/10/63 absence of routing slip on cable

background on DIR 74830 mes re re LHO & passing.

Llto a instrvited mas to 3d agencies louilly.

12/10/63 DIK 2 ption - cod

What was EX Crept? [Faresifly ] prvadosyan

Scott's suggestion if a P file on CHO to other agencies re CHO

10/10/63 - He dissemination

15.15 10/10/63 #74673

10/15/69 MCS 6534 requesting pouched photo of CHO - No response to this cable. Obtain

10/16/63 Scott memo + Extre LHO; mention of visax aspect.

P file - all dete

Ofthin Dusit Contes file -1.12

Absence of wiring s On Some frable

0002453

LIAISON

SECRET

15 16th Paragraphs?

Marginal NOTES P.T.

couting - transcript, the thime operation

[Mon] Agents first trans. + action (consult?)

Post AssiAd:

Nature of checks. - PIR 84886

Mexi 7023 ECASURE /date COFFEC

"not recorded this caté

(prior to 7024 - All Info reported

27th calls etc 'by [m]

RECRE

THunt Bishop.

Importance PT.

SECRET

7025 - report of 9/28 +10/1 com. by A.G.

0002454

18 - cal (Mexican pick

28-cal of 9/28 af

When first realized photos!

LHO

7033 rejearts all calls.

2034 recheck of all photos.

0002455

I General
A. duties
B. typical day.

II People
list

SECRET

III the surveillance opsi

2/14/18

SECRET

09802456 Briefing on 201's.

Bill Donley - former op off.

Mike Levy

[Lee Could ]

Virginia Jones.

basis for opening dest

tonment (access) (trace)

b. tracking

C. CIS (threat)

generally amassed material

actual facess into 201.

When MC report came in

is there a das response- this trace.

a pemes offiction.

buy officer judgement

Mick scenario

suggest reliableness even threat type propune ence

most 201's are on people

are being for recruitment.

0002457

SECRET

but would necessarily open 201

Info would be disseminated.

word go into an index

There are criteria for opening

high level commiss. } HANdbook recruiters.

usually initially opened by operations

TEASEarch

desk (decision)

disk officer.

MAINLY iN FIELD.

the 201 is indigenous to DDO.

Part II - for CLEARANCE.

detail bkgid analysis, operational

no projections

•exte squirtautomatic 201

has no which is kept in for Part II.

Agee essentially bifurcated files

central cand reference between them.

201 - should lead to true Name- PRQ It reference

Sepecete to Second. File PRQ II

SECRET

0002458

bio - try hand

operation out

mainly bio of 201's.

reason for opening

would be a reference to a cable or document

201 assigned chronologically as the main comes in.

would have his picture if one could be gotten

required. - would you right in

there should be a table of contents list, an a 201

computerized. ~ list compiled as a result.

signal (ence.

State co info on subject

ntegrated.

Policy Coordi

project files

project bite may also e

agency involvement

graphics file. - do obtain a deal of photos of

like ships of ODI if por things

SECRET

0002459

intelligence value

may be photos of individuals

file not in D.DO

graphics in DDI

OCR office of Central Reference

P+L refe

Part of DDO.

partmentation to cable traffic

of top crypt can't be assigned 201.

if got into a deb of us then to

criteria report

and a debriefing

a defector to

Eat is aki

matic

ot of defection

1547 A form /1896 form.
