```markdown
JFK Assassination System: Date: 10/2/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: 180-10072-10186

RECORD SERIES: NUMBERED FILES.
AGENCY FILENUMBER: 010313

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION

FROM:
TO: HESS, JACQUELINE.

TITLE:

DATE: 07/31/1978
PAGES: 64

SUBJECTS:
OSWALD, MARINA; FINANCES, INCOME TAXES.

OSWALD, LEE; PRE-RUSSIAN PERIOD, MILITARY SERVICE,
COURT-MAR

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT.
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/10/1996

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS: Includes insurance forms, death certificate, & military documents of Oswald. Box 189.

Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88326 Date: 2025
v9.1

NW 88326 DocId:32245128 Page 1

DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH, EDUCATION, AND WELFARE
SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION
BALTIMORE, MARYLAND 21235

JUL 28 1978

010313

Ms. Jackie Hess
Select Committee on Assassinations
U.S. House of Representatives
3331 House Office Building, Annex 2
Washington, D.C. 20515

Dear Ms. Hess:

This is in response to Mr. Blakey's May 15, 1978, request for access
to all files and documents concerning or referring to Lee Harvey Oswald
and Marina Oswald. The following documents are enclosed:

1. Form SS-5, Application for Social Security Account Number, completed
by Lee Harvey Oswald.

2. Form SS-5, Application for Social Security Account Number, completed
by Marina Oswald.

3. Numident showing name changes for Marina Oswald.

4. Form OA-C5, Application for Survivors Insurance Benefits, completed
by Marina Oswald.

5. Certificate of Death issued by the City of Dallas for
Lee Harvey Oswald.

6. Marriage certificate (and translation) for Lee Harvey Oswald and
Marina Nikolaevna Prusakova.

7. Birth certificate (and translation) for Marina Nikolaevna.

8. Birth certificate (and translation) showing child born to
Lee Harvey Oswald and Marina Nikolaevna Oswald.

9. OA-C704, Certification of Contents of Document(s) or Record(s),
re birth of child to Lee H. Oswald and Marina Nikolaevna Prusakova.

NW 88326 DocId:32245128 Page 2

10. Form OA-C654, Certification By Uniformed Services, for Lee Harvey Oswald.

11. Letter dated 7/25/63 from the Department of the Navy to
Lee Harvey Oswald.

12. Form DD-214, Armed Forces of the United States Report of Transfer
or Discharge, for Lee Harvey Oswald.

13. Undesirable Discharge from the Armed Forces of the United States,
issued to Lee Harvey Oswald.

14. Forms OA-C668, Claimant's Report to Social Security Administration,
completed by Marina Oswald on 3/27/64 and 5/1/65.

15. Form OA-C669, Claimant's Report About Work to the Social Security
Administration, completed by Marina Oswald on 10/8/64.

16. Form SSA-1425, Reporting Card, completed by Marina Porter on 5/4/66.

17. Forms OA-C777, Annual Report of Earnings, completed by Marina Oswald
for 1964 and 1965.

18. Form OAC-1001, Statement of Employer, completed by Jaggars-Chiles-Stovall,
Inc.

19. Form OAC-1001, Statement of Employer, completed by Texas School Book
Depository.

20. Form OAC-1001, Statement of Employer, completed by William B. Reily,
Company, Inc.

21. OAC-5002, Report of Contact, re contact with Jaggars-Chiles-Stovall,
Inc.

22. OAC-5002, Report of Contact, re earnings under Jaggars-Chiles-Stovall,
Inc.

23. Copies of three pages of the Warren Commission Report re employment of
Lee Harvey Oswald prior to service in the Marine Corps.

24. Form OA-C790, Request for E/R Action.

25. Memorandum dated 6/3/65, re remarriage of Marina Oswald.

26. Forms SSA-L735 sent to Marina Porter and completed by Mrs. Porter.

NW 88326 DocId:32245128 Page 3

27. Forms OA-C107, Determination of Resumption of Award.

28. Forms OA-C528b, Determination of Termination of Entitlement or
Suspension of Payments Based on Supporting Evidence on File.

29. Forms OA-C610, Payee, Address Change, or Hold Check Request.

30. Form OA-C526, Benefit Summary.

31. Form OA-C101, Determination of Award.

32. Form OA-C589, receipt for check.

33. Form OA-C596, 1965 Conversion of Benefit Rates.

34. Form AC-512, Appointment of Representative, completed by
Marina N. Oswald and James H. Martin.

35. Form OAC-5002, Report of Contact, with James H. Martin.

36. Form OAC-5002, Report of Contact, re Lee Harvey Oswald's death.

The above-mentioned documents are being sent to you in their entirety.
We have withheld only the records of wage and self-employment income
maintained under the direction of 42 U.S.C. 405(c)(2). This record is
created on the basis of tax return information received from the Internal
Revenue Service. Under 26 U.S.C. 6103, this information is given to the
Social Security Administration for the administration of the Social
Security Act and redisclosure is prohibited. You may request this
information directly from the Internal Revenue Service.

I understand that the Dallas Region has already sent you the local
folder on Lee Harvey Oswald. We are also checking with the National
Archives to determine if it may have further social security records
on Lee Harvey Oswald or Marina Oswald. To date, we have found no
records under the aliases you provided. We will contact you if further
documents are located.

Sincerely yours,

Robert Bynum
Associate Commissioner
for Program Operations

Enclosures

NW 88326 DocId:32245128 Page 4

Form SS-5
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE
(Revised 7-46)
APPLICATION FOR SOCIAL SECURITY ACCOUNT NUMBER
REQUIRED UNDER THE FEDERAL INSURANCE CONTRIBUTIONS ACT
READ INSTRUCTIONS ON BACK BEFORE FILLING IN FORM

433-54-3937
DO NOT WRITE IN THE ABOVE SPACE
FILL IN EACH ITEM. PRINT IN BLACK OR DARK BLUE INK OR USE TYPEWRITER FOR ALL ITEMS EXCEPT SIGNATURE. IF THE INFORMATION CALLED FOR IN ANY ITEM IS NOT KNOWN, WRITE "UNKNOWN."
PRINT NAME YOU GAVE YOUR PRESENT
FIRST NAME
LEE
LAST NAME
Oswald
MIDDLE NAME. (IF YOU MIDDLE NAME OR INITIAL. DRAW A LINE
H
EMPLOYER, OR IF UNEMPLOYED, THE
NAME YOU WILL USE WHEN EMPLOYED
MAILING ADDRESS (NO. AND ST., P. O. BOX, OR RFD) (CITY) (ZONE)
12 LANGEST. NO, LA.
PRINT FULL NAME GIVEN YOU AT BIRTH
LEE HARVEY Oswald
AGE ON LAST BIRTHDAY
DATE OF BIRTH (MONTH) (DAY)
(YEAR)
PLACE OF BIRTH
(CITY)
OCT. 18 1939.
FATHER'S FULL NAME, REGARDLESS OF WHETHER LIVING OR DEAD
ROBERT LEE Oswald
(STATE)
FW ORLEANS
(STATE)
LA.
MOTHER'S FULL NAME BEFORE EVER MARRIED, REGARDLESS OF WHETHER LIVING OR DEAD
MARGRET CLEVIERY
(COUNTY)
BUSINESS NAME OF EMPLOYER. IF UNEMPLOYED, WRITE "UNEMPLOYED"
EMPLOYER'S ADDRESS (NO. AND STREET)
(CITY)
(ZONE)
(STATE)
TODAY'S DATE
(MARK (X) WHICH)
MALE FEMALE
SEX: ☑
COLOR
OR
RACE
(MARK (X) WHICH) (IF OTHER, SPECIFY)
WHITE NEGRO OTHER
☑
HAVE YOU EVER BEFORE APPLIED
FOR OR HAD A SOCIAL SECURITY OR
RAILROAD RETIREMENT NUMBER?
YES
(MARK (X) WHICH)
NO
IF ANSWER IS "YES" PRINT THE
STATE IN WHICH YOU FIRST
APPLIED AND WHEN
ALSO PRINT YOUR ACCOUNT
NUMBER IF YOU KNOW IT
WRITE YOUR NAME AS USUALLY WRITTEN (DO NOT PRINT)
RETURN COMPLETED APPLICATION TO NEAREST SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION FIELD OFFICE
NW 88326 DocId:32245128 Page 5
DO NOT WHITE IN THIS SPACE

(5-3)
WLA.
W
Roo 0
NICHOLDEVNA
Nichelnova Preasa Nova
725
RUSSIA
1629 ENTRENO RO, RICHALOC
VOU
NW 88326 DocId:32245128 Page 6
Li
ا 0000
13
lara.
المالستان

OFFICIAL RECORD FOR SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER 467 82 4034 PRINTED ON 071978
FORM 1 APPL/CYCLE 08 64 ENTRY 0 REF# 65163940518
NAME LINE MARINA NICHOLAEVNA OSWALD 243
SIGNATURE CODE
BIRTH DATE 0717941 SEX 2 RACE 1
MOTHER CLAUDIA V PROOSAKOVA FATHER NICHOLAI UNKNOWN
BIRTHPLACE ARCHANGEL UR*
REQ BY BR 032 SEC UNIT CLERK 00827 DATE 195 PAGE 1 OF 3

OFFICIAL RECORD FOR SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER 467 82 4034 PRINTED ON 071978
DO IRS FORM 2 APPL/CYCLE 121175 ENTRY 2 REF# 75165960637
NAME LINE MARINA NIKOLAEVNA PORTER 636
2ND NAME MARINA NIKOLAEVNA OSWALD 243
SIGNATURE CODE. S
BIRTH DATE 0717941 SEX 2 RACE 0
MOTHER KLAVDIA PROOSAKOVA FATHER ALEXANDR MEDVEDEV
BIRTHPLACE ARCHANGEL UR*
REQ BY BR 032 SEC UNIT CLERK 00827 DATE 195 PAGE 2 OF 3

OFFICIAL RECORD FOR SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER 467 82 4034 PRINTED ON 071978
DO COO FORM 8 APPL/CYCLE 011976 ENTRY 2 REF# 76010006538
NAME LINE M N PORTER 636
2ND NAME MARINA NIG OSWALD 243
SIGNATURE CODE D
BIRTH DATE 0717941 SEX 2 RACE 0

NW 88326 DocId:32245128 Page 7
UNIT CLERK 00827 DATE 195 PAGE 3 OF 3

PLEASE DO NOT
WRITE
IN MARGIN
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH, EDUCATION, AND WELFARE
SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION
Bureau of Old-Age and Survivors Insurance
DALLAS, TEXAS
APPLICATION FOR SURVIVORS INSURANCE BENEFITS*
All items on this form requiring an answer must be answered or marked "Unknown."
NOTICE. Whoever (a) makes or causes to be made any false statement of representation of a
material fact for use in determining the right to or the amount of a benefit, or in determining an
individual's disability, under Title II of the Social Security Act, or (b) who, having received a pay-
ment for the use and benefit of another person, knowingly and willfully uses such payment for
other than the person for whom it is received, is subject, under the Social Security Act, to a fine of
not more than $1,000 or 1 year's imprisonment, or both.
Lee Harvey
(Social security account number)
433-54-3937
M.
(Name of deceased wage earner of self-employed person)
Form approved.
Budget Bureau No. 72-R094.11.
Dallas DO JAN 9.
Received
I Marina Oswald, hereby apply for all insurance benefits payable to
(Full name of applicant)
me under Title II of the Social Security Act, as amended, and to the children listed in item 14 below.

1. When was the deceased born? Month 10 Day 19 Year 39
2. In what State or foreign country did the deceased have his fixed, permanent home when he died? Dallas
3. (a) Did the deceased ever serve in military or naval service of the United States? Yes No
If "Yes," answer (b).
(b) Was the deceased in active service after September 7, 1939, and before January 1, 1957? Yes No
If "Yes," answer (c) and (d).
(c) Give dates of service during the period specified in (b) above 10/24/56 - 9/11/59
(d) Has anyone (including the deceased) received, or does anyone expect to receive, from any
Federal agency other than the Social Security Administration, a benefit based on the em-
ployment, military service, disability, or death of the deceased? Yes No
If "Yes," name such person(s).
List all such agencies
4. Did the deceased work in the railroad industry at any time on or after January 1, 1937? Yes No

5. Give the names and addresses of the deceased's employers during the 12 months before his death; if the
deceased worked in agricultural employment, give this information for the year of death and the year
before. (If self-employed, write "Self-employed.")
NAME AND ADDRESS OF EMPLOYER WORK BEGAN WORK ENDED
Month Year Month Year
a. Texas School Book Depository 411 Elm, Dallas 10 63 11 63
b. Jaggers-Chiles-Stovall 522 Browder, Dallas 7 62 10 62
c. Wm B. Daily 640 Magazine, New Orleans 1 62 7 62
6. If the deceased was self-employed last year or the year before, give:
Year Kind of Trade or Business Amount of Net Earnings
Less than $400 $400 or more
Less than $400 $400 or more
7. About how much did the deceased earn from employment and self-employment during
the year in which he died? 2600.00

8. Give the following information about each marriage of the deceased, including his marriage to you.
DATE AND PLACE OF MARRIAGE(S) MARRIAGE ENDED
Month, Day, Year City State TO WHOM MARRIED How MARRIAGE Date Place
ENDED
4/30/61 Minsk, Belo Russia Marina Nickolagena Proosakovs his death 11/24/63 Severs Avinsk, Russia
9. What was your maiden name? Marina Nickolagena Proosakovs
10. When and where were you born? 7/17/41 Severs Avinsk, Russia
(Month, day, and year) (State or foreign country)
This may also be considered an application for survivors benefits under Section 5 of the Railroad Retirement Act and for Veterans Administration
payments under Title 38 USC., Veterans Benefits, Chapter 13 (which is, as such, an application for other types of death benefits under Title 38).
Form OA-CS
NW 88326 DocId:32245128 Page 8.

11. Indicate by (✓) whether your marriage to the deceased was performed by:
Clergyman or authorized public official ☑ or Other (Explain)

12. Were you married before your marriage to the deceased? Yes No
If "Yes," give the following information about each of your previous marriages.
DATE AND PLACE OF MARRIAGE(S) MARRIAGE ENDED
Month, Day, Year City State TO WHOM MARRIED How MARRIAGE Date Place
ENDED

13. (a) Were you and the deceased living together at the same address when the deceased died? Yes No
(b) If either you or the deceased was away from home (whether or not temporarily) when the deceased
died, give the following: which of you was away; date last home; reason absence began; reason you
were apart at time of death; if hospitalized, name of hospital and nature of confinement.
He was at home 11/22/63 to go to work. They were not aparated by
marital difficulties; he was in polic ustody until his death.

14. Was the deceased survived by any unmarried children (including stepchildren, adopted, and
illegitimate children): (a) who were under 18 years of age when he died; or (b) who were 18 Yes No
years of age or older, with a disability that began before age 18?
If your answer is "No," leave out the next questions and continue with question 21.
If your answer to question 14 is "Yes," give the following information about each such child.
(If uncertain as to name, date of birth, or whereabouts of any of these children, explain under "Remarks" on last page.)
Show relationship to you and the deceased by placing (✓) in the proper column.
FULL NAME OF CHILD DATE OF BIRTH RELATIONSHIP TO DECEASED RELATIONSHIP TO YOU
Month Day Year Legitimate Adopted Stepchild Illegitimate Natural or Adopted Stepchild
June Les Could 2 15 62 X ✓
Audrey Marina Rached 10 20 63 X ✓
Oswald

PLEASE DO NOT WRITE IN MARGIN
(If you are not filing this application on behalf of any child listed above, give under "Remarks" on last page the name
of each such child and the reason(s) for not filing. If a child of the deceased is born after this application is filed, notify
your office of the Social Security Administration promptly, as such child may receive benefits.)

15. Has any child listed in item 14 ever been adopted by anyone other than the deceased? Yes No
If "Yes," give the name of child, by whom adopted, and when.

16. (a) Were all the children listed in item 14 living with the deceased at time of death? Yes No
-If "No," and the deceased was the FATHER or ADOPTING FATHER who died before September 1960, answer (b).
(b) Which of the children listed in item 14 were living with their STEPFATHER when the deceased died?

17. Are all the children listed in item 14 now living with you? Yes No
If "No," give the following information about each child not living with you now.
FULL NAME OF CHILD NOT LIVING WITH YOU PERSON WITH WHOM CHILD NOW LIVES
Name and Address Relationship to Child

18. Has a child listed in item 14 lived with you in every month since your husband's death? Yes No
If "No," list the months in which no such child lived with you

NW 88326 DocId:32245128 Page 9

PLEASE DO NOT WRITE IN MARGIN
19. Do you understand that all payments made to you on behalf of a child must be spent or saved Yes No
for his use and benefit, and do you agree to so apply the benefits?
20. Do you agree to notify the Social Security Administration promptly when you no longer have Yes No
responsibility for the welfare and care of any child for whom you are filing this application?
21. Have you or any children listed in item 14 married since the death of the deceased? Yes No
If "Yes," give name of person who married and date of marriage.
22. Have you or any children listed in item 14 ever had a social security account number? Yes No
If "Yes," give the following information for each person having a number.
NAME OF PERSON AS SHOWN ON SOCIAL SECURITY CARD SOCIAL SECURITY ACCOUNT NUMBER

23. Have you or any children listed in item 14 ever filed an application for social security benefits Yes No
before?
If "Yes," give the name and account number of the person on whose earnings record such previous claim was based.
(Name of wage-earner or self-employed person) (Social security account number)

Answer questions 24 and 25 only if you are within 3 months of age 62 or older.
24. Were you in the active military or naval service of the United States after September 7, 1939, Yes No
and before January 1, 1957?
25. Did you work in the railroad industry at any time on or after January 1, 1937? Yes No

Deductions are made from the benefits (other than disability benefits) of any person under age 72 who earns more than
$100 a month in employment or renders substantial services in self-employment, and has earnings in excess of $1,200 for the
taxable year. This applies to all employment and self-employment, whether or not covered by the Social Security Act.

26. (a) Are you or any of the children for whom you are filing now earning more than $100 a Yes No
month in employment or rendering substantial services in self-employment?
If "Yes," give the name of each such person.

(b) Do you expect your total earnings or the total earnings of any child for whom you are Yes No
filing to exceed $1,200 this year (count all earnings beginning with the first month of this
year)?
If "Yes," give the name of each such person and the amount of his expected earnings. If "No," con-
tinue with question 27.
PERSON EXPECTED EARNINGS
$

(c) Did every person listed in (b) earn more than $100 a month in employment or render sub- Yes No
stantial service in self-employment in all months of this year (counting the present month)?
If "No," give the name of each person and the months of this year in which the person did not earn more than $100
a month in employment and did not render substantial services in self-employment. If any such person was self-
employed, show the number of hours he devoted to self-employment opposite each month listed-if none, show "None."
PERSON MONTHS
*The yearly period referred to in this and subsequent items is the same 12-month period used in figuring income taxes. If you or any of the children
use a fiscal year (one that does not end on December 31), enter here the name of such person and the month the fiscal year ends.
NW-88326 DocId:32245128 Page 10

Answer item 27 only if the deceased died before this year.
27. Did you or any child for whom you are filing earn more than $1,200 last year? Yes No
If "Yes," give the name of each such person, show his total earnings, and list the months of last year in which the person
did not earn $100 a month in employment and did not render substantial services in self-employment. If any such person
was self-employed, show the number of hours he devoted to self-employment opposite each month listed-if none, show
"None." (Do not list any month before the month the deceased died.)
PERSON EARNINGS MONTHS
$

An annual report of earnings must be filed with the Social Security Administration within 3 months and 15 days after
the end of any year in which you, while under age 72 at least one full month of that year, or any child for whom you are
filing, earned more than $1,200. Also, your benefit is not payable for any month you do not have in your care a child of
the deceased entitled to a child's benefit unless you are receiving benefits because you are a widow age 62 or over.
FAILURE TO REPORT THESE EVENTS MAY RESULT IN THE LOSS OF ADDITIONAL
MONTHLY BENEFITS.

28. Do you agree to file the annual report of earnings when required? Yes No
29. Do you agree to notify the Social Security Administration promptly if you do not have an en- Yes No
titled had of the deceased in your care?
A widow's entitlement to benefits ends with the month before the month in which: (a) she remarries, with certain excep-
tions (however, all marriages must be reported); or (b) she is under age 62 and no child of the deceased is entitled to
child's insurance benefits.
A child's entitlement to benefits ends with the month before the month in which the child: (a) attains age 18 (unless the
child has a physical or mental impairment which began before age 18, is expected to be long-lasting, and prevents any sub-
stantial gainful activity); (b) dies; (c) marries, with certain exceptions where the child is disabled (however, all marriages
must be reported); or (d) is legally adopted (unless the adoption is by the child's stepparent, grandparent, aunt, or uncle
after the death of the parent on whose record the child's claim is based).

PLEASE DO NOT WRITE IN MARGIN
If the child is age 18 or over and is receiving benefits as a disabled child, his entitlement to benefits also ends with the
second month after the month in which his disability ceases.

30. Do you agree to notify the Social Security Administration promptly if any of these events occur Yes No
and to return promptly any check for benefits received by you if you or any of the children are
not entitled to it?
REMARKS: (This space may be used for explaining any answers to the questions. If you need more space,
attach a separate sheet.)
In 5. Texas School Book Depository 411 Elm, Dallas 10/63-11/63

Knowing that anyone making a false statement or representation of a material fact for use in determining the right to
or the amount of Federal old-age, survivors, or disability insurance benefits or in determining an individual's disability, com-
mits a crime punishable under Federal law, I certify that the above statements are true.

If this application has been signed by mark (X), two wit-
nesses who know the applicant must sign below, giving their
full addresses.

Signature of applicant (Write in ink):
Marina N. Oswald
(First name) (Middle initial) (Last name)
PO Box 1407
(Street and number)
Grand Prairies ut 75050
(City) (Zone number) (State)
Telephone number at which I can be reached:
DA7 656 9
DA 7-0188
(If none, write "None.")
Date:
(Month) (Day) (Year)
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1961 OF 5883.38
NW 88326 DocId:32245128 Page 11

RTMENT OF HEALTH - BUREAU OF VITAL STATISTICS
STATE OF TEXAS
11. PLACE OF DEATH
a. COUNTY
Dallas
b. CITY OR TOWN (If outside city limits, give precinct no.)
Dallas
d. NAME OF (If not in hospital, give street address)
HOSPITAL OR Parkland Hospital
INSTITUTION
a.IS PLACE OF DEATH INSIDE CITY LIMITS?
3. NAME OF
* YES ☑
(a) First
DECEASED
(Type or print)
Lee
6. COLOR OR RACE
White
5. SEX
Male
NO
(b) Middle
Harvey
STATE FILE NO.
2. USUAL RESIDENCE (Where deceased lived. If institution: residence before admission)
6. STATE Texas
b. COUNTY
c. CITY OR TOWN (If outside city limits, give precinct no.)
Dallas
d. STREET ADDRESS (If rural, give location)
1026 N. Beckley
⚫. IS RESIDENCE INSIDE CITY LIMITS?
(c) Last
Oswald
DATE OF BIRTH
Dallas
f. IS RESIDENCE ON A FARM?
YES ☑
NO
YES
NO ☑
4. DATE OF DEATH
November 24, 1963
✓ 9. AGE (in years IF UNDER 1 YEAR | IF UNDER 24 HRS.
24
Married ☐ Never Married ☐ October 19, 1939thday) Months
Widowed
Divorced ☐
10a. USUAL OCCUPATION (Give kind of work done 10b. KIND OF BUSINESS OR INDUstreet 11. BIRTHPLACE (State or foreign country)
during most of working life, even if retired)
Printing,Book, Metal
Laborer
13. FATHER'S NAME
Robert Edward Lee Oswald
16. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.
15. WAS DECEASED EVER IN U.S. ARMED FORCES?
(Yes 19. or unknown) 10-1958-1959 433-54-3937
Yes
18. CAUSE OF DEATH [Enter only one cause per line for (a). (b), and (c).]
PART I. DEATH WAS CAUSED BY:
IMMEDIATE CA
a
DUE TO (b)
DUE TO (c)
New Orleans, La
14. MOTHER'S MAIDEN NAME
Days
Hours
Minutes
12. CITIZEN OF WHAT COUNTRY?
Margeruite Claverie
INFORMANT
Robert L
USA
Oswald
"Hemonhage, secondary to
gunshot wound of the chest's
INTERVAL BETWEEN
ONSET AND DEATH
approx
4
15 minutes
TEX
MEDICAL CERTIFICATION
S-11 REV. 1/58
Conditions, if any.
which gave rise to
above cause (a).
stating the under-
lying cause last.
PART II. OTHER SIGNIFICANT CONDITIONS CONTRIBUTING TO DEATH BUT NOT RELATED TO THE TERMINAL DISEASE CONDITION GIVEN IN PART 1[o]
Deceased shot at close
range
20a.
ACCIDENT
☐
SUICIDE
☐
HOMICIDE
☑
206. DESCRIBE HOW INJURY OCCURRED. (Enter nature • of injury in Part I or Part II of Item 18.)
Hour
Month
Day
Year
-
R.M.
11
20c. TIME OF
INJURY
1125
20d. INJURY OCCURRED
WHILE AT
WORK ☐
21.
NOT WHILE
AT WORK
19. WAS AUTOPSY PER-
FORMED?
YES ☑ NO ☐
while officers
24 63 were in process of transferring him from city"
20. PLACE OF INJURY (e.g.. in or about home, form, factory, 201. CITY, TOWN, OR LOCATION
street, office building, etc.)
I hereby certify that I attended the deceased from.
on.
22a. SIGNATURE
0
City Hall
must
Death occurred at_
19.
(Degree or title)
-
McBride
23. BURIAL, CREMATION, REMOVAL (Specify)
XBIEX REMOVAL
23d. LOCATION
(City, town, or county)
Fort Worth
25a. REGISTRAR'S FILE NO.
6717
23b. DATE
نم
19_
Hellas
on
COUNTY
Ballas
11-24-63
to
STATE
Texas
and last a deconveni
12:457 m. on the date stated above, and to the best of my knowledge, from the causes stated.
22b. ADDRESS
310 Courthou
23c. NAME OF CEMETERY OR CREMATORY
22c. DATE SIGNED
12-5-63
November 25, 1963 Rose Hill Burial Park Brash #3775
(State)
Texas
25b. DATE REC'D BY LOCAL REGISTRAR
DEC 6 1963
24. FUNERAL DIRECTOR'S SIGNATURĘ
Miller Funeral Home Ft Worth, Texas
125c/ REGISTRARE NATURE. BY Maurine Lamm
ACTING REGISTRAR
NW 88326 DocId:32245128 Page 12
DALLAS, TEXAS Jan. 2,
1964
I HEREBY CERTIFY THAT THIS IS A TRUE COPY OF DEATH
CERTIFICATE OF ONE. Lee Harvey Oswald
AS IS RECORDED IN THIS OFFICE IN THE CITY OF DALLAS,
COUNTY OF DALLAS,
OF TEXAS.
J.W. Bo
J. W. Baca
BY
ACTING REGISTRAR – VITAL STATISTICS
DALLAS, TEXAS..

NAME OF INSURED INDIVIDUAL
TRANSLATION
SOCIAL SECURITY ACCOUNT NUMBER
433-54-3937
TRANSLATING OFFICE
Social Security Administration
A. REQUEST FOR ASSISTANCE
(Complete only if document is sent to
another office for translation.)
1. DATE:
1/23/64
2. LANGUAGE OF DOCUMENT:
RUSSIAN
3. PERSON(S) FOR WHOM PROOF SUBMITTED:
(If married woman give maiden name)
4. FACT(S) TO BE PROVED:
5. ALLEGED DATE EVENT IN ITEM A-4
OCCURRED:
1. TYPE OF DOCUMENT:
B. TRANSLATION
(To be filled out by official translator)
Marriage Certificate
4. TITLE OF OFFICER EXECUTING DOCUMENT:
Bureau manager
(chief)
2. DATE EVENT RECORDED, IF
SHOWN:
D 4/30/61
5 NAME OF ISSUING AGENCY:
3. DATE DOCUMENT
ISSUED:
15245/30/61
For of Citizens
"Bureau of Registration
Statistics minok,
6. Does this document appear to be genuine and unaltered, and to have been
made at the time purported? YES NO
7. Is Foreign Service post verification stamp YES NO
shown on document.
8. Describe and explain any irregularities in document:
9. The document, which is in the language, contains the following pertinent information;
Citizen Oswald, Lee Harvey, born 10/18/39 in
and
New Orleans.
Citizen: Prycanova, Marina Mikolaevna, born
July 17, 1941 in molotovsk, Dist. Arkhangelsk
were married on April 30, 1961
Reg. Mc. 415 Cert. mo. 332281
REQUESTING OFFICE: SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZED
TRANSLATOR
Social Security Administration George Ketchion
TITLE DATE
1/23/64
NW 88326 DocId:32