(180-10143-10233)
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Russell August Langelle
Genzman
5-4-78
SECRET

Robert Genzman and Harold Sexp interviewed Russell August Langelle at C/A headquarters on May 4, 1978. The interview yielded the following information:

Langelle joined the CIA in September 1950, and worked mainly in SR9 of the Soviet Russia Division. In November 1955 he resigned from the agency on the pretext that he was disgruntled with his assignments. His CIA files would have reflected this termination of employment. The only document to the contrary would have been a memorandum from the Director of Central Intelligence Allan Dulles, stating that Langelle would retain all rights and benefits when he returned to the CIA (at present this document would probably be in his personnel file). Approximately fifteen people knew that Langelle was still with the CIA after his resignation in 1955. These included John Maury (SE); Joe Bulik (SR 9), Quentin Johnson (Chief of Operations), George Kisevalter, Frank Levy, Ted Polling, Jack Kindschi, June Sworbuck, Ed Galloway, Leonard McCoy (Reports and Requirements), Pierre de Silva (COS), and someone at the State Department's Office of Security.

SECRET
10143-10232
11112574

Genzman
5-4-78
SECRET

At the time of his resignation, Langelle applied for employment with the State Department. In the interim he worked at the Hecht Company. In March 1956 he started to work at the State Department as a Security Officer. In September 1956 he was sent to Vienna, where he earned a reputation for being a strict Security Officer at the Embassy. He was deliberately tough on C/A personnel who breached security, in order to build his cover as a non-CIA foreign service officer. His salary was paid by the State Department. The CIA Chief of Station in Vienna and the Ambassador knew he was with the CIA.

11112575

Langelle served as the Security Officer at the Moscow Embassy from December 1957 to September 1959. In addition, he was the senior CIA officer there. The C/A contingent in Moscow consisted of five or six officers working inside the Embassy and approximately four outside.

Genzman
5-4-78
SECRET

Inside, with deep cover, were George P. Winters (Econ Officer), FNU (Mahoney), FNU (Venables) and Steve Washenko (Econ or Agric Officer). Outside were Jean Leberman (teacher at the American school) and three or four students, who handled orientation projects rather than operations projects.

Langelle handled CIA communications in Moscow. The CIA used State Department channels of communication, but could code messages by means of one-pad encrypting so that the message was secret until it was forwarded to CIA headquarters, where it was decoded.

In 1959 the Soviets declared Langelle persona non grata as a result of his involvement with P.S. Popov. Langelle was the case officer of Popov, who worked for the GRU Soviet military intelligence. While making contact with Popov, Langelle was detained by the KGB and was questioned for two and a half hours. The KGB attempted to recruit him, and then released him. The State Department filed a formal protest, but Langelle was told to leave the Soviet Union within three days. He left the Soviet Union in early October 1959.

11112576

SECRET

Genzman
5-4-78
SECRET

Langelle first became aware of Lee Harvey Oswald when he heard in a conversation that a Marine had contacted the American consular office in Moscow to renounce his citizenship. He later heard that this individual had changed his mind and was returning to the United States. He does not recall the details of these conversations, but he believes they took place in the United States.

11112577

Langelle characterized Oswald's defection as a consular case to be handled by consular officers, rather than an intelligence case involving intelligence officers, who were shorthanded in Moscow at that time. He stated that the few intelligence officers in Moscow at that time were involved in specific operations, and did not perform general intelligence functions. He also stated that intelligence officers at the Embassy did not use the consular officers for intelligence purposes.

SECRET

Genzman
5-4-78
SECRET

Langelle stated that the military intelligence people at the Embassy probably would have been contacted about Oswald's defection. The military intelligence personnel included Leo Dulacki (Marines), Paul Adams (Navy), John Munson (Navy), and Ted Hoffman (Army). He did not know whether Alexis Davison (Navy) was an intelligence officer or whether Davison was involved in the Penkovsky case.

Langelle stated that when Oswald left the Soviet Union, he was the responsibility of the State Department, the Immigration and Naturalization Service, and the FBI.

11112578

When Langelle left Moscow in 1959, Winters was the senior CIA officer there. Mahoney and Leberman were still there, and Washenko may still have been there. Langelle's replacement as Embassy Security Officer was John Abidian who was not with the CIA. Abidian was later replaced by Hugh Montgomery, who was Winter's successor as senior CIA officer.

SECRET

Genzman
5-4-78
SECRET

Montgomery was later replaced by Paul Garbler, who became the first officially designated Chief of Station in Moscow. Other C/A officers in Moscow circa 1962 included Rodney Carlson, Bill Horvaly, and possibly John Hemenway.

At headquarters the chief of the Soviet Russia Division was John Maury, followed by Howard Osborne and then David E. Murphy.

With regard to American journalists in Moscow, Langelle had no contacts with R. G. Korengold or Aline Mosby, did not know a. d. Goldberg, and was contacted by Priscilla Johnson for an interview after he was declared persona non grata.

SECRET
11112573

When Langelle returned to the United States, he continued working for the State Department. He resumed CIA duties on a part-time basis in 1961. He dealt with communications between Washington and Moscow. In September 1961 he resumed his CIA duties on a full-time basis at headquarters. He worked mainly in the Soviet Russia Division, External Operations, Africa and Europe. At present he is still with the C/A and still paid by the State Department, but he plans to retire soon.

SECRET

Langelle was born on October 7, 1922. His social security number is 149-18-8800. He is married, with three children. He joined the CIA in September, 1950, and worked mainly in SRI the Soviet Russia Division. On November 1955 he resigned from the agency on the pretext that he was disgruntled with his assignments. His CIA files would have reflected this termination of employment. The only document to the contrary would have been a memorandum from the Director of Central Intelligence Allan Dulles, stating that Langelle would retain all rights and benefits when he returned to the CIA. (This document would probably be in his personnel file.) Approximately fifteen people knew that he was still with the CIA after his resignation in 1955. These included John Maury (SE), Joe Bulik (SR9), Quentin Johnson (Chiefs of Operations), George Kisevalter, Frank Levy, Ted Polling, Jack Kindschi, June Sworbuck, Ed. Galloway, Leonard McCoy (Reports and Requirement(s), Pierre de Silva (COS), and someone at the State Department's office of Security.

SECRET
11112580

At the time of his resignation, Langelle applied for employment with the State Department.

SECRET

Langelle handled CIA communications in Moscow. The CIA used State Department channels of communication, but could code messages by means of one-pad encrypting so that the message was secret until it was forwarded to CIA Headquarters for decoding.

SECRET
11112581

Langelle was deliberately tough on C/A personnel for security breaches in order to build his cover as a non-CIA foreign service officer. His salary was paid by the State Department. In the interim he worked at the Hecht Company. In March 1956 he started to work at the State Department as a Security Officer. He was sent to Vienna in September 1956, where he earned the reputation for being a strict Security Officer at the Embassy. The CIA Chief of Station in Vienna and the ambassador knew he was with the CIA. Langelle served as the Security Officer at the Moscow Embassy from December 1957 to September 1959. In addition he was the senior CIA officer there, with five or six CIA officers working inside the Embassy and approximately four outside. Inside were George P. Winters (Econ. Officer), Mahoney, Venables and Steve Vashenko (Econ. or Agric. Office). Outside were Jean Liberman (teacher at the American school) and three or four students, who handled orientation projects rather than operations projects.

In 1959 the Soviets declared Langelle persona non grata as a result of his involvement with P.S. Popov. Langelle was the case officer for Popov, who worked for the GRU, Soviet military intelligence.

SECRET
11112582

While making contact with Popov, Langelle was detained by the KGB and was questioned for two and a half hours. The KGB attempted to recruit him, then released him and The State Department filed a formal protest, but Langelle was forced to leave the Soviet Union within three days.

Langelle first became aware of Lee Harvey Oswald when he heard in conversation that a former Marine had contacted the American consular office in Moscow to renounce his citizenship. He later heard that this individual had changed his mind and was returning to the United States. He does not recall the details of these conversations, but he believes they took place in the United States.

11112583

Langelle characterized Oswald's defection as a consular case to be handled by consular officers rather than an intelligence case involving intelligence officers, who were shorthanded in Moscow at that time. He stated that the few intelligence officers in Moscow at that time were involved in specific operations, and did not perform general intelligence functions. He also stated that the intelligence officers at the Embassy did not use the consular officers for intelligence purposes.

SECRET

Langelle left the Soviet Union, was the responsibility of the State Department, the Immigration and Naturalization Service, and the FBI.

When Langelle left Moscow in 1959, Winters was the senior CIA officer there. Mahoney and Leberman were still there, and Washenko may still have been there. Langelle's replacement as Embassy Security Officer was John Abidian who was not with the CIA. Abidian was later replaced by Hugh Montgomery, who became Winter's successor as senior CIA officer. Montgomery was later replaced by Paul Garbler, who became the first officially designated Chief of Station in Moscow. Other C/A officers in Moscow circa 1962 included Rodney Carlson, Bill Horvaly, and possibly John D. Hemingway.

Military intelligence personnel in Moscow included Paul Adams (Navy), John Munson (Navy), and Ted Hoffman (Army).

At Headquarters, the chief of the Soviet Russia Division was John Maury, followed by Howard Osborne and then David E. Murphy.

SECRET
11112584

When Langelle returned to the United States, he continued working for the State Department. He resumed his CIA duties on a part-time basis in 1961. He dealt with communications between Washington and Moscow. On September 1961 he resumed his CIA duties on a full-time basis at Headquarters. He worked mainly in the Soviet Russia Division, External Operations, Africa and Europe. He is still with the CIA and is still paid by the State Department, but he plans to retire soon.

SECRET
11112585

Russell August Langelle
Genzman
5-4-78
10-7-22
[149-18-8800]
3 children
SRD
(SR9)
language, operational mil. experience, politics, stability
C/A Sept 50
Nov. 55 resigned from agency
for internal
Hecht Co
State
Mar 56
Vienna
Sept. 56
Memo from director
(Dulles)
all rights & benefits
-when returns-
15 knew
Sex Off building.
amb.
orally
Vienna COS Ander (hed
Moscow - Dec.57
Sept. 59
(SR9 - internal ops [people all buried ]
DOS component
& couple of officers in
-SE John Maury
not a station
[ first cos Paul Garbler-
SRI Joe Bulick
c. of Ops Quentin Johnson
George Kisevalter
Frank Levy
Ted Polling
Jack Kindschi
June Sworbuck
Ed Galloway
Reports & Requirements
Leonard McCoy
COS Pierre de Silva
-Office of Security
20 stepha not aware

11112586
SECRET

George P. Winters, Mahoney (cs)
[Steve Washenko (Econ. Offices)
outside - Jean Leberman (teacher)
3 or 4 students - orientation.
rather than operations]
John Abidian (State dec. Officer
took over State
responsibilities)
sort of senior
George P. Winters 32- Econ. Off.
Washenko - may still there
Mahoney + Leberman
PNG agency operation
penetration
on GRU-mil. intell.
Popov agent
was case off:
case compromised
got approval from Thrush.
-to kidnap -
tried to recruit
stepped off a bus
released after 2½ hrs.
said they would get in touch.
State protested
PNG

11112587
Back to us - worked for State Jan 60
handled State Dept duties
[agency function]
Communications
[Resumed CTA parttime '61
ept. 61 HQ at seall time basis.

SECRET

(Penkovsky)
cut-out-Brit. wife
62
SR.9 Sept. 61-
[moved back to CIA
on pull-time basis Sept. 61
(Dec. 58 - Sept. 59.
[mahong) GSA officer.]
Communicat.
Mos. to HQ.
SR9 Jack Maury-
Winters remained]
in conversations a consular officer said Marine
- renounced citizenship
walk-ins.
consular off. would bring it to your attention
George Kisevalter handled [Pozor while
Elin & Vienna
handled Penkosky
maybe Rosenho.
Used State communication
[one pad encrypting ]

11112588

C/A people in consular section.
mil intell.
Paul Adams Nov.
Ted Hoffman army
Munson Nov.
Dulacki Mar.
would have been contacted.
Korngold
- no contacts
Johnson -asked for interview after his PNG
Mosby - no contacts
Goldberg - didn't know.
[Davison - dosen't know if agency
not involved in Penk to his knowledge
[dip. personnel could not be used for intel. without
prior approval from state. ]
Provocations
Harmstone
Naval aviator
atsugi -53-55

11112589

Hugh Montgomery (senior)
John D. Hemingway
Garbler (cos; replaced Montgomery)
(Rodney Carlson)
Bill Horvaly
No common source register with mel. + Moscow
63-SR.
Chief of External Ops.
africa & Eur.
((still paid by State) ] [FSR 4 in Moscow
Moscow.
David E. Murphy - Chief of SR Div. 64-65
then Maury
Costin Berlin during
Popov operation while
L'a in Moscow
followed by Howard Osborne

11112530

He believed that the military intelligence people at the Embassy would have been contacted about Oswald's defection. The military intelligence personnel included Paul Adams (Navy), John Munson (Navy) and Ted Hoffman (Army). Langelle did not know whether Alexis Davison (Navy) was an intelligence officer or whether he was involved in the Penkovsky case.

With regard to American journalists in Moscow, Langelle had no contacts with R. G. Korengold or Aline Mosby, did not know a. d. Goldberg, and was contacted by Priscilla Johnson after he was declared persona non grata.

11112591

[Eugene of Winters) - Rt. [Back
30-61 - 11.44
Gabler - Vien Hill at 22180.
Spring wing
1503) Smig
Osborne-Mc Lean
17 Feb:62 - 20ap.63 Montgomery =
356-4650)
first Co 80c.
CO 36gure 62-145 c. & Rodney Carlar]]
11ful 63, 3lay 65 [Edward Gotched Ha
22
11 Jan 63, 18 Jan. 64 Jazzy Preking HQ 2p.in.
annual leave til may
May 12
C/SR
John Maury
1 Dec 54-29 Jul.62
3704 Farr Ave,
Fairfax
KIPJ
Howard J. Osborne
30 Jul 62 15 Sept. 63 alty. John Bebelus
16ft 63
David C. Murphy
948-6727
1537 Forest
356-9523
10ma Villa Faine, McLear

11112592
