180-10131-10325

[2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

JFK Assassination System Date: 10/19/20

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: 180-10131-10325
RECORD SERIES: SECURITY CLASSIFIED TESTIMONY
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 014725

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA
FROM: TOVAR, BERNARD HUGH
TO:
TITLE: DEPOSITION OF BERNARD HUGH TOVAR.
DATE: 06/29/1978
PAGES: 48
SUBJECTS:
CIA, METHODOLOGY
TOVAR, BERNARD HUGH, TESTIMONY BEFORE THE COMMITTEE
OSWALD, LEE, RUSSIAN PERIOD, DEFECTION TO RUSSIA
DOCUMENT TYPE: TRANSCRIPT
CLASSIFICATION: Top Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/26/1997
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: Box 5

v9.1

NW 48331 DocId:32277210 Page 1

TESTIMONY OF:

Bernard Hugh Tovar

NW 48331 DocId:32277210 Page 2

AFRANCE:msl

ASSASSINATION OF JOHN F. KENNEDY

Thursday, June 29, 1978

U. S. House of Representatives,
John F. Kennedy Subcommittee of
Select Committee on Assassinations,
Washington, D. C.

(Deposition of:

BERNARD HUGH TOVAR

called for examination by staff counsel for the subcommittee,
pursuant to notice, in the offices of House Annex II, Room 3370,
Second and D. Streets, Southwest, Washington, D. C., beginning at
2:00 o'clock p.m., before Albert Joseph LaFrance, a Notary Public
in and for the District of Columbia, when were present on behalf
of the respective parties:

For the Subcommittee:

MICHAEL GOLDSMITH, ESQ. Staff Counsel
ELIZABETH WOLF

For the Deponent:

(There was representation by counsel)

NW 48331 DocId: 32277210 Page 3

TESTIMONY OF HUGH TOVAR

Mr. Goldsmith. State your name for the record.

Mr. Tovar. I sign my name B. Hugh. My full name is
Bernard Hugh Tovar.

Mr. Goldsmith. Mr. Tovar, my name is Michael Goldsmith,
Senator Staff Counsel of the Select Committee on Assassinations.
I have been designated by the Committee to take your deposition
today. You are here voluntarily today?

Mr. Tovar. Yes.

Mr. Goldsmith. You have the right to have counsel present.
Do you waive that right?

Mr. Tovar. Yes.

Mr. Goldsmith. Have you read a copy of the Committee's
supporting resolution?

Mr. Tovar. Yes.

Mr. Goldsmith. Have you had a chance to read Rule Number 4?

Mr. Tovar. I have.

Mr. Goldsmith. The Committee rules provide for the transcript of a deposition to be made available to a witness and
actually be delivered for retention by any witness that gives
the Committee a statement. However, by virtue of the arrangement that the Committee has worked out with the CIA, the Agency
has asked us to request Agency employees testifying before us
to waive the right actually to receive a copy of the transcript.

NW 48331 DocId: 32277210 Page 4

The reason for that is because the transcript frequently
will contain classified information and the Agency prefers for
that information to be kept in our secure area here. So I
would like to ask you to waive your right to receive a copy of
your statement but in so doing, I want to assure you that you
will be given a right to review the transcript for accuracy,
to make comment upon it and if necessary, to give an additional
statement.

Mr. Tovar. I agree.

Mr. Goldsmith. I would like to inform you that the court
reporter will provide you with a transcript and the transcript
will be certified by the reporter as a complete, accurate and
true record of all the testimony that you give here today.

Now, you are employed by the CIA, is that correct?

Mr. Tovar. Yes.

Mr. Goldsmith. I had given you earlier a copy of a letter
dated 23 March 1978 from Mr. Carlucci to the Chairman of this
Committee. Have you had a chance to read that letter?

Mr. Tovar. I have.

Mr. Goldsmith. Do you understand it?

Mr. Tovar. I understand it.

Mr. Goldsmith. Then I think we are ready to proceed to
the substance of the questioning. What is your present position
with the CIA?

Mr. Tovar. I am the Chief of the Counterintelligence

NW 48331 DocId: 32277210 Page 5

Staff of the Directorate of Operations.

Mr. Goldsmith. How long have you been working in that
capacity?

Mr. Tovar. Ever since a year ago April.

Mr. Goldsmith. How long have you been working with the
Agency?

Mr. Tovar. Thirty years.

Mr. Goldsmith. What was your assignment prior to becoming Chief of the CI Staff?

Mr. Tovar. I was recently returned from overseas where I
was Station Chief in Bangkok and three years before that,
Chief of the Station in Laos.

Mr. Goldsmith. Prior to assuming your position as Chief
of the CI Staff had you had extensive experience in the area of
counterintelligence?

Mr. Tovar. No, not particularly. We don't as a rule
specialize. We are normally generalists. I do not consider
myself a counterintelligence expert.

Mr. Goldsmith. During the years 1959 to '63 what position
did you occupy with the Agency?

Mr. Tovar. In 1959 I was Chief of Station in Kuala
Lumpur in Malaysia.

In 1960, I came back and I was originally Deputy Chief and
then Chief of the Branch in Far East Division which controls
operations in the Philippines, Malaysia, Indonesia, Australia,

NW 48331 DocId: 32277210 Page 6

New Zealand, and Oceania. That was until 1964.

Mr. Goldsmith. Have you had a chance to review CIA
document number 1817 and the pages that follow it?

Mr. Tovar. Yes, I have read these. I had not read these.
They were released by one of my subordinates, Mr. Friedlander.

Mr. Goldsmith. Are you telling us that today is the first
chance you had to read them?

Mr. Tovar. I did not read them this time. They went to
you, to the Committee but I have since read them.

Mr. Goldsmith. They were prepared by whom?

Mr. Tovar. Jack Friedlander, Chief of Operations. They
were signed by him, not prepared by him. They would have been
originated probably by Mr. Kowalski or Mr. Bradley, I am not
sure which. I think Kowalski almost certainly.

Mr. Goldsmith. The memorandum which is labeled CIA No.
1817 was a response by the Agency to an inquiry by the
Committee as to whether it was standard operating procedure for
the Agency to debrief what in effect were repatriated defectors.
I believe it is fair to say by way of summary that the memo
says that it was not in fact standard operating procedure
during the years 1959 to '63 to debrief such individuals. Is
that correct?

Mr. Tovar. Insofar as I understand it. My knowledge is
limited to what I see here before me in the paper. During this
period in question I was not involved, so I didn't know what

NW 48331 DocId: 32277210 Page 7

the current policy was then. What I have been told since by those who should know is that there was no policy as set forth here.

Mr. Goldsmith. Do you know what the criteria were for
selecting the 117 individuals whose files were reviewed?

Mr. Tovar. No. I think someone mentioned the other day
that the names were incorporated in a memorandum I think originally by the FBI but I would not certify to that.

Mr. Goldsmith. Mr. Tovar, since you have no direct
knowledge as to the manner in which this memo was prepared and,
for example, you don't know the criteria that was used for
choosing these 117 people, I am not going to ask you questions
pertaining to that document. I would like to request that you
communicate with the Office of Legislative Counsel at the
Agency and tell them the individual who was involved in the
actual direct preparation of the document so that I could spend
some time with him.

Mr. Tovar. The document, of course, is over my signature,
so I stand behind the document. I am responsible for what
was said there. If it is incorrect then I am incorrect in
letting that document out. I have no personal first hand knowledge of the research he did to arrive at the conclusion here
which he presented to me and I endorsed. I am prepared to stand
behind it but I will give you his name.

Mr. Goldsmith. I want to ask you some questions about the

NW 48331 DocId: 32277210 Page 8

document. CIA no. 1818 indicates that CI Staff has completed a
review of the files of 117 US persons who had "defected" to
the USSR between 1959 and '63 and since returned to the United
States. Is that correct? '58 to '63?

Mr. Tovar. Yes.

Mr. Goldsmith. I would like you to review the statement
under the name Thomas Morridian M-O-R-R-I-D-I-A-N. While you
read that paragraph, I will state for the record that the way
the memo is set forth it indicates that it was not standard
operating procedure to debrief such individuals, that of 117
people whose files were reviewed only ten were debriefed.
Then it proceeds to list the ten individuals who in fact were
debriefed.

I have now requested Mr. Tovar to read the first summary
which is right next to the name of the first person who was
debriefed.

Mr. Tovar. Yes sir.

Mr. Goldsmith. When did that individual defect?

Mr. Tovar. 1947 is the year he went to the USSR. I
assume that is the year he defected, if that is the term.

Mr. Goldsmith. So that in fact that individual was not
someone who defected between 1958 and 1963?

Mr. Tovar. That is correct.

Mr. Goldsmith. Let us look at the next individual under
B, Joseph Marshall.

NW 48331 DocId: 32277210 Page 9

Mr. Tovar. Yes sir.

Mr. Goldsmith. When did Mr. Marshall defect?

Mr. Tovar. It is not clear. He was born in the US in
1897. He said he was employed in Hawaii in 1921. There is no
indication whence he went to the USSR.

Mr. Goldsmith. There is no indication he defected between
'58 and '63?

Mr. Tovar. No. He was arrested by the Soviets in 1945.
Conceivably he might have defected after that.

Mr. Goldsmith. The letter "C", Tommaro S-G-O-V-I-O.
Would you please read that section and tell us when this individual defected?

Mr. Tovar. Again, he went to the USSR with his parents
in the 1930s. No indication when he defected. He left the
USSR in 1960. No way of telling.

Mr. Goldsmith. This individual did not defect between
'58 and '63?

Mr. Tovar. At last we have no indication he did. One
would assume to the contrary.

Mr. Goldsmith. Letter "D", Mary Mackler, will you please
read the first summary and tell us when she defected?

Mr. Tovar. There is no indication when she defected.
She went to the USSR with her parents in 1931. Sometime after,
married a Soviet.

Mr. Goldsmith. Again, no indication she defected between

NW 48331 DocId: 32277210 Page 10

'58 and '63?

Mr. Tovar. No.

Mr. Goldsmith. Would you look at letter "E". Sonia and
Fred A-S-I-N-I-A-N. When did they defect?

Mr. Tovar. They renounced their US citizenship in 1948.
So I assume that is the operative year.

Mr. Goldsmith. Will you look at the letter "F" now?

Mr. Tovar. Jack Kuralski.

Mr. Goldsmith. When did he defect?

Mr. Tovar. He renounced his US citizenship in '34 and
departed USSR I assume in 1934.

Mr. Goldsmith. The point I am trying to make is that the
memo responding to the Committee's inquiry makes reference to
ten individuals who defected between the years '58 and '63.
It then proceeds to provide us with ten names. But in fact,
if we continue to look through the list we will see that seven
of the ten individuals did not defect during that time period.
Some of them did return during that time period.

Mr. Tovar. And were debriefed.

Mr. Goldsmith. And were debriefed.

Mr. Tovar. Contacted.

Mr. Goldsmith. Of the ten, perhaps three or four returned
during the relevant time period. I asked those questions
mainly to draw your attention to the fact that the response
given was not really --

NW 48331 DocId: 32277210 Page 11

Mr. Tovar. -- precisely what you wanted?

Mr. Goldsmith. Yes.

Mr. Tovar. I don't know the answer to that. I would
assume that the criteria they applied here as best they could
was when did he defect, when did he return, was he debriefed
or contacted? In some cases they hit one out of three, in
other cases two out of three. I think they were giving the
best correlation with your criteria that they could.

Mr. Goldsmith. I understand that. My point might be then
that the introductory section should not have stated that these
were people in 1958 and '63 when in fact they were not.

Mr. Tovar. You are right. That is an incorrect statement.
Is your requesting memo here? That is not a very good statement.

Mr. Goldsmith. Here is the letter dated April 6, 1978
which I show you just for your information to show you what the
Committee was requesting from the Agency. If you will look
under number two.

Mr. Tovar. Then this would appear to correlate with that.
You asked to indicate whether the Agency from '58 to '63
interviewed or debriefed former American defectors.
So, the
time they defected is not the operative consideration.

Mr. Goldsmith. No, it was not.

Mr. Tovar. The time of the debriefing --

Mr. Goldsmith. Yes, that would be the focus.

NW 48331 DocId: 32277210 Page 12

Mr. Tovar. So these would be at least consistent with that.

Mr. Goldsmith. Yes, that is true. I would like also for
purposes of further clarification, to have you read the letter
dated May 12, 1978 starting with the second full paragraph.
It is not numbered.

Mr. Tovar. Yes.

Mr. Goldsmith. I show you that only for your background
purposes, not to ask you any questions about it. In any event,
I would appreciate having the name of the individual who
prepared the memo passed along to the Office of the Legislative
Counsel.

Mr. Tovar. Yes sir.

Mr. Goldsmith. The response that was provided to the
Committee indicates that the CIA had no standard procedure for
debriefing returning US defectors. What was the basis for that
policy or actually for the absence of the policy?

Mr. Tovar. I don't know. I can speculate only -- not
having been there and not having any involvement -- I don't
know what mentality of those in charge was at that time.

Mr. Goldsmith. What would your speculation be?

Mr. Tovar. I would speculate that the contact with and
debriefing, in effect the supervision of Americans in that
category would be FBI's prerogative and the Agency as a rule
would not have had any basic interest or reason to be involved
unless there were a specific counterintelligence concern.

NW 48331 DocId: 32277210 Page 13

Mr. Goldsmith. Does the Agency today have a policy of,
as a matter of routine operating procedure, debriefing returning defectors?

Mr. Tovar. None that I am aware of.

Mr. Goldsmith. You would be the person who would be aware
of such a procedure?

Mr. Tovar. None that I am aware of.

Mr. Goldsmith. Again would you say you relied on the
FBI to conduct those interviews?

Mr. Tovar. Yes.

Mr. Goldsmith. Is there any coordination between the
Agency and the FBI so that the Bureau is informed when someone
in fact is returning?

Mr. Tovar. On American defectors, the type you are speaking of here?

Mr. Goldsmith. An American defector who is repatriated.

Mr. Tovar. I know of no case where they would be
interested in the subject. I can't say there is a procedure
in being. Knowing the way we relate to the FBI, if we knew of
a case of returning Americans, Say we learned it from an
overseas station and it seemed of interest, we would probably
refer it directly to the FBI by letter.
I am speculating here because I know of no case in point.

Mr. Goldsmith. There is no standard procedure for contacting the Bureau and informing them of a returning defector?

Mr. Tovar. Not that I am aware of.

NW 48331 DocId: 32277210 Page 14

Mr. Tovar. Between the Soviet-East European Division and
CI Staff we should be aware of it. The two were most primarily
concerned with the USSR. I think one or the other of us would
inform the Bureau. This is not our primary concern: The
Americans, even when they have been naughty boys, having gone
to USSR and decided to return, we still don't have necessarily
a professional interest in that type of person.

Mr. Goldsmith. What is the responsibility of the CI Staff
within the CIA?

Mr. Tovar. In a couple of sentences it is a little
difficult. I will tell you what we do. The CI Staff has two
principal areas of activity. We are first of all a staff.
Are you familiar with the staff as opposed to the division?

Mr. Goldsmith. No, I am not.

Mr. Tovar. You have seen the table of organization of
DDO?

Mr. Goldsmith. Yes.

Mr. Tovar. You know generally how we are organized?

Mr. Goldsmith. Yes.

Mr. Tovar. The main set of components of the Directorate
is divisions and staffs. The divisions operate a function overseas. We are staff and that is in the military sense we support
the Directorate and we support the Director, we support one
another in an advisory capacity and in various ways. So, we
are not an operating component. We don't run spies. We have

NW 48331 DocId: 32277210 Page 15

a lot of activities which impact on operations but we are not in
the true sense of the term an operating element.

So, having said that, the primary field of activity for
the CI Staff is research and analysis, and then the other,
what we refer to as operations coordination. Now, that is sort
of the term which does not -- research and analysis is clear.
We examine and analyze cases, essentially cases. We are not
scrutinizing people. We are looking at intelligence operations
old and current, primarily things that are not terribly
current. We don't tend to follow current operations in the
analytic sense. We take old cases and look them over to see
if mistakes were made, to see if we can derive lessons from
mistakes made in the past. We publish papers for the Agency's
community at large, all in the R&A field.

On the other side we function in the sense of a true staff.
We keep our fingers on the activity of the Directorate overseas.
We monitor what they are doing, not in the sense of being
spooky but we simply read the correspondence. We are given
normal distribution of most correspondence coming back from
overseas. We keep a hand on the pulse of counterintelligence
activities abroad.

To do this, we obviously have to have reasonable currency
on operational activity across the board. So, we are generally
aware of the operational patterns of activity that prevail in
various overseas stations. On that basis we are in a position

NW 48331 DocId: 32277210 Page 16

to advise the DDO or Directorate as to the level of performance,
the kind of activity conducted, the quality, the proper or
improper degree of emphasis. We maintain an overview on behalf
of DDO.

Mr. Goldsmith. Is your concentration oriented towards
counterintelligence threats of a foreign nature?

Mr. Tovar. Yes, totally.

Mr. Goldsmith. You would not be concerned at all with
counterintelligence threats domestically?

Mr. Tovar. None whatsoever.

Mr. Goldsmith. Is it correct to say that would be the
responsibility of the Bureau?

Mr. Tovar. Absolutely.

Mr. Goldsmith. Now, Lee Harvey Oswald returned from the
Soviet Union in 1962. While in the Soviet Union he worked
as a worker in a radio factory. Upon his return I imagine there
was someone concerned about his being a counterintelligence
threat. Is it fair to say, and I do not want to ask you leading
questions but would it be fair to say that would be more
the responsibility of the Bureau rather than the Agency upon
his actual return?

Mr. Tovar. Yes, the question whether or not he was, let
us say, a counterintelligence threat.

Mr. Goldsmith. KGB agent?

Mr. Tovar. That would be a Bureau concern, no question

NW 48331 DocId: 32277210 Page 17

about that.

Mr. Goldsmith. However, would the Agency make any effort
to interview Oswald while Oswald was en route from the Soviet
Union to the United States?

Mr. Tovar. You are speaking of what the Agency might have
done in '63 or '62?

Mr. Goldsmith. '62.

Mr. Tovar. Again, we are speculating concerning the
intelligence of the men who were in charge then. Today I
would like to think we would be interested in what he is doing.
At the time I don't know. I would think, why not. On the
other hand, I couldn't say they would or should be interested.
It was not their primary precise prerogative. I think if they
could, as I assume they did, the Bureau would discharge its
responsibilities vis-a-vis any American of questionable
propensity, I should think they would be deferring to the
Bureau.

Mr. Goldsmith. That would be the aspect of Oswald where
there was a concern that he posed a counterintelligence threat.
What about the fact that Oswald may have had positive intelligence information that would have been helpful to the Agency?
That would not be within the jurisdiction of the Bureau?

Mr. Tovar. I think in that context it might have been
appropriate for the Agency, if they assumed the point you made,
to seek an interview with him. I think the appropriate

NW 48331 DocId: 32277210 Page 18

vehicle for that would have been the Domestic Contact Division
which I think handled most of the contacts referred to in this
memorandum.

Mr. Goldsmith. What is the function of the Domestic
Contact Division?

Mr. Tovar. They are responsible for intelligence that
can be checked properly and legally in the United States
normally through American businessmen or American persons and
nonofficials who travel abroad and acquire intelligence of
interest. This is not just USSR. It could be any other
country. Their primary field of activity is to contact and
debrief on a voluntary basis, if they so choose to respond,
Americans who return from overseas.

Mr. Goldsmith. I notice that the Committee's inquiry
concerning the CI's policy as to returning American defectors
was routed to your staff, CI Staff. When the memo was prepared
by the CI Staff for the Committee, was it done with the thought
of representing the entire agency or just the CI Staff?

Mr. Tovar. It is difficult for us to presume to speak for
the entire Agency. I think on this matter we are speaking for
the Directorate of Operations, not for the entire Agency.

Mr. Goldsmith. Fine. That is really the area with which
I was concerned anyway, Directorate of Operations.

Mr. Tovar. The only other element of the Directorate of
Operations that would be of an interest in this type of thing,
which might be construed as having an interest in this type

NW 48331 DocId: 32277210 Page 19

of activity, would be the SC Division. On this I think the
CI staff could be considered as speaking for the Directorate.

Mr. Goldsmith. Is the Domestic Contact Division part of
the CI Staff?

Mr. Tovar. No, part of the Directorate of Operations.

Mr. Goldsmith. The response of the Agency dated April
20, 1978, which appears in CIA Number 1818, indicates that
contact seems to be based on opportunity and circumstance.
Then it goes on to say only ten of the 117 persons have had
any contact with CIA. Would it be possible for you to go into
more detail on what is meant by opportunity and circumstance?

Mr. Tovar. In the absence of a policy, of a guideline, a
procedure, internal instruction which says you will debrief
Americans who return from having resided in the USSR, in the
absence of that, this thing is left to chance obviously. I
cannot explain to you how the names of these 117 passed the desk
of whoever was in charge at the time, but assuming they did,
my guess, and it is really only a guess, would be that the
person who read that, whatever document it was, would say,
"Hmmph! He looks like he might be interesting", and perhaps
would then get in contact with DCD and suggest if they get in
contact with a person, let us say he is known to be living in
New York, suggest that they might want to seek out his location
and if possible interview him.

NW 48331 DocId: 32277210 Page 20

I think it would be a matter of chance in the sense that
the analyst or whoever it was who reviewed that document, might
react, and yet he or she might not, too, depending on how they
woke up that morning. It is sheer whimsy.

Mr. Goldsmith. Let me explain to you why the question
whether or not it was standard operating procedure to debrief
returning defectors is important to the Committee. Since
the assassination of the President, there has arisen a group of
researchers who have reviewed the Warren Commission Report and
have reviewed releases made under the Freedom of Information
Act by the CIA and the FBI.

Having reviewed these materials the argument has been made
that Oswald received unusual treatment at the hands of the CIA.
One example of this unusual treatment is that there is no
record of Oswald having been debriefed by the CIA upon his
return. For that reason, we are focusing on this issue. Is
there any way you can give us guidance on how to respond to
that question?

Mr. Tovar. I can't because I am speculating every step
along the way. I would hesitate to say more than Oswald
simply didn't connect with whoever happened to be looking --
let us assume his name appeared. Was his name in the list?

Mr. Goldsmith. No. That is the list of people who were
debriefed.

Mr. Tovar. One hundred seventeen?

NW 48331 DocId: 32277210 Page 21

Mr. Goldsmith. I haven't seen the list of 117 people.

Mr. Tovar. What is this?

Mr. Goldsmith. That is a list of 350 odd people I was
going to ask you about. However, since you don't have knowledge
of the 117, I am not going to ask you about them.

Mr. Tovar. If Oswald's name was on the list, I can't
explain why he might not have been contacted. Maybe he didn't
appear attractive or interesting enough. I don't know what
information might have been given with these names on the list,
such as a memo from the FBI or State Department, whoever had
originated it, what they said that would have titillated the
analyst who might have seen it that would have elicited a
response on the part of the analyst who would say "Ah, let us
look into this further."

Mr. Goldsmith. In particular, a lot of focus has been
given to Mr. Robert Edward Webster, who appears in CIA Number
1820 who defected approximately the same time that Oswald did
and returned at approximately the same time that Oswald did and
who was debriefed by the CIA for two weeks in Virginia.

Mr. Tovar. I didn't know that he was. It doesn't say so
here.

Mr. Goldsmith. That does not indicate the extent of the
debriefing. That information was obtained independently by
this Committee.

Mr. Tovar. The name means nothing to me so I can't

NW 48331 DocId: 32277210 Page 22

enlighten you on it.

Mr. Goldsmith. Does the CIA have any affiliation with
organizations in the United States who might be responsible for
debriefing someone?

Mr. Tovar. Not that I am aware of.

Mr. Goldsmith. In other words, if anyone is going to be
debriefed it would be by the Domestic Contact Division?

Mr. Tovar. In the intelligence sense. In the sense of
elucidation of intelligence, DCD would do it. A different type
of inquiry, personal investigation, the Office of Security, or
whoever it works through, would be the one.

The one we are talking about, DCD is the only organization
I know of. I can visualize a circumstance under which operating
components might seek out an individual or might have in times
past but I can't think of a case in point in my own recollection. I would say, given the strictures on our operating in
the United States, we would rely upon DCD to do it if they had
any positive intelligence connotation. If it were of an
operational nature today, the Foreign Resources Division might
pursue it.

Mr. Goldsmith. Yes.

Mr. Tovar. It is the division level of the Directorate.
It is the division which seeks in the United States to develop
potential intelligence assets for abroad. I think I had
better defer to the other people on that. That is roughly where

NW 48331 DocId: 32277210 Page 23

it stands. They certainly would not have interest in debriefing defectors that I am aware of.

Mr. Goldsmith. In any event, for the purposes of summary,
there is today no standard operating procedure of interviewing
returning defectors?

Mr. Tovar. Right, insofar as I am aware, there is none.

Mr. Goldsmith. There is no standard operating procedure
between the Bureau and the CIA which would coordinate any effort
to contact returning defectors and share information?

Mr. Tovar. None that I am aware of.

Mr. Goldsmith. Turning to another area which I would like
to get into briefly, would you define what a 201 file is?

Mr. Tovar. A 201 file is a file or files -- it could be
several volumes to it -- which relates to an individual. It
might pose a dichotomy, a 201 file and project file. A project
file might deal with an activity, say collection operations in
Timbucktu, a broad scale of activity involving several numbers
of people, there might be several 201 files, A, B, C, who were
associates in that project. The 201 file would be on the
individual himself.

Mr. Goldsmith. It would contain primarily biographic
information?

Mr. Tovar. No. It would contain a much vaster -- some
of them might contain one sheet of paper with name, rank and
date of birth. But if the association with him developed and

NW 48331 DocId: 32277210 Page 24

became more extensive, it might contain a considerable amount
of information. If he became involved with this operation it
might include operational material, intelligence operations
as well, all part of the 201 complex.

The point I am making is that it is an individual file
as opposed to an activity file.

Mr. Goldsmith. If you wanted to learn about the operations
that an individual was involved in, would you go to his 201
file or to his operations file?

Mr. Tovar. I would go to the 201 file first. There might
not be an operations file. In fact, in the vast majority of
the 201 cases there are no operational files because there is
no hard and fast rule on when you open a 201 file or who opens
a 201 file.

If I, for example, am overseas and I become interested in
a person who looks to me to have considerable promise from the
operational standpoint, say a local foreign type, I might give
my own local checks, I might examine my own files to see if I
know anything about him. Then I say to headquarters "here is
Joe Doe. He is interesting to me for these reasons. Will you
please check against headquarters records and other agencies
and let me know if you have anything of interest on him."

I might not ask for a 201 file. Headquarters might then,
because they thought he was interesting, open a 201 file.
Conversely, I might likewise say this looks terribly interest-

NW 48331 DocId: 32277210 Page 25

ing Please open a 201 file and give me all of the information
you can collect on him."

Mr. Goldsmith. I understand that the fact that someone
has a 201 file does not mean at all that the individual was
involved in any operations of the Agency. If you wanted to get
information of an operational nature, would you go both to the
201 file and operations file?

Mr. Tovar. Assuming there was information of an operational nature?

Mr. Goldsmith. Yes.

Mr. Tovar. Yes, indeed we would.

Mr. Goldsmith. If someone is an agent of the CIA -- I
am not referring now to case officers or staff agents -- someone is a field agent for the Agency, would that fact be indicated in the 201 file?

Mr. Tovar. Yes.

Mr.