```markdown
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

--- Page 1 ---

180-10143-10072
2/13/78
SECRET
0002330
Periodic File Summary

Alexis Davison: A Nedelja article named one Malcom Toon as the supervisor of CIA operations in the Moscow Embassy.

Daniel Carswell is 6', 180 lbs., has grey eyes and brown hair. He was imprisoned with Eustace H. Danburnt and Edmund R. Jaransky.

Luis Posada:
- Member of the Frente Revolucionario Jose A. Echevarria in Cuba on February 1960.
- In April of 1961 he was trained for the Bay of Pigs invasion in Guatemala.
- Sought political asylum in the Argentine Embassy in Mexico City. He arrived in the U.S. on February 11, 1961.
- 2/28/72 Posada sought political asylum in the Argentine Embassy in Mexico City.
- In April of 1963. His travel was restricted until August 1963.

10143-10077

--- Page 2 ---

SECRET
0002331

In October 1961 he took a job with the Firestone Rubber Company in Akron, Ohio. He stayed at this job until March of 1963.

1963 - On February 21, 1963 the CIA put into motion the bureaucratic machinery necessary for an interview.

In March of 1963 Posada joined the United States Army. He served at Fort Benning, Georgia in the 1st Battalion, 2nd Platoon (weapons), Co. B, 1st Battalion, 29th Infantry, Brigade 197.

In June he divorced his wife, Maria Concepcion Castaneda Napoles in Chicago, (PDOB: 1931, Cardenas, Martanzos, Cuba; married 1955; last known address: 6540 Seville St., Apt. C, Huntington Park, CA.)

In August, the CIA granted permission for an interview.

--- Page 3 ---

SECRET
0002332

NOTIFIED THE INTERVIEWING COMPONENT
That The INTERVIEW Posada claims
That the FBI had no objection to
that he joined JURE at
some point during this
year.

1964.
Posada left the US Army in March with the rank of 2nd Lieutenant. In September he claims he was employed by the Pan Am Terminating Corp., 275 S.W. 6th St, Miami. He also claims to have been representing JURE in the Dominican Republic in 1964.

1965.
In April Posada is in Miami working as an autobody repairman when the IRS was recounted as a training instructor, a name check returned positive from FBI, ONI, I+NS, the Joint Generals Office and the Army Chief STAFF intelligence.

FBI reportedly has evidence of.

--- Page 4 ---

SECRET
0002333

of Posada's involvement in a plot to kill Castro in this year.

NOTE: Posada claims to have been the chief instructor for JURE camps for three years unspecified in the early 60's.

Additional info:
1. AKA: Luis Clemente Carriles
Bambi Posada Carriles
Bambi Carriles
Julian Posada Carriles
Julian Carriles
2. He has, at times, listed as references:
Carlos Porro, 395 E. Tallmadge, Akron, Ohio.
Antonio Garcia, 3604 S. W. 26th Terrace, Miami, Fla.
Segundo Ortes, 685 Carnegie Ave, Akron Ohio
Dickerson, Akron, Ohio

--- Page 5 ---

SECRET
0002334

3. SS #265-72-1345
4. US Army #C-23.12445
5. US Army dossier #265-17-1345
WAS IN CONTACT with ONE.
6. Posada associates with "Lefty" Rosenthal in Miami.
7. Posada claims to be an excellent marksman.

WITH CUSTOMS.
HE SERVED AS A SOURCE FOR THE CIA, The CIA reimbursed his salary.

Cesar Diosdado
DOB 8/16/21, Lorado, Texas.
employed in 1961. Has allegedly been involved in gun running since 1957. Allegedly sold guns to a group planing an invasion of Haiti in 1966. In 1967 Jose Ricardo Rabel Nunez told a press conference in Cuba that Diosdado was a CIA recruiting agent. Diosdado was the undercover agent who busted Mogens A. Richmond of Harper in 1972 in a guns for heroin deal.

--- Page 6 ---

SECRET
0002335

David A. Phillips
(two components)
2/1/51 to 2/28/51 contract agent
11/25/52 Staff Employee
1/3/54 "
4/1/55 "
7/31/53 "
1/31/55 "
2/6/56 "
8/13/58 "
2/7/56 to 8/13/58 "
8/19/58 to 3/13/60 "
3/14/60 to retire.
1961 - 1966 staff agent
Cont. Ag. (Cuba)
Staff Employ.
Mexico
in 1963 was in charge of Cuban Operations.

Mitchell L. Werbell III
held provisional operational approval from 8/4/59 to 10/14/59. He has been characterized as a conman. In Oct and kept 1942, he did try to get several Latin American governments to recognize a Cuban government.

--- Page 7 ---

SECRET
0002336

in exile. He has regularly volunteered information to the CIA and has often impersonated CIA officers.

Associates: in Cuban Affairs.
Edward McGill
Edward Lewis Bankston
Chester Gray
AKA Zochowski.
Rolando Masferrer
Bruce Arman Baker
11379 President Drive N.E.
Blaine Village, Minn.
Robert Bayard
Walter Joseph Meckem (Mackem)
PDOB 12/13/37, Omaha, Neb.
2609 N. Potomac
Arlington, VA.
Steve Van Cleave
Edward Marger
Paul Bethel
Charles Hall
Robert K. Brown.

Werbell's POA was cancelled because the CIA determined he was trying to use the agency for personal reasons (more detail in 201 Summar.

--- Page 8 ---

SECRET
0002337

HARDWAY
HUNT
joined CIA PPS/OPC
Was in Vienna in late 40's with Economic Coop. Admin. where before joining CIA
12/11/50 resigned to accept position @ State
There is no indication of his rejoining the Agency but there are clearances for his novels.

1951 - "The violent ONES"
"Whisper Her NAME"
while DCOS under State Cover

1952- "Paris VIIT"
1953- IS IN MEXICO -returns HQ in Feb. for reassignment
1953- "Darkness on the hound" rejected coz racism - used pseudonym? by Edwards

--- Page 9 ---

SECRET
0002338

Hunt
OS withdrew denial when it learned that Hunt would be reassigned to Latin America.

1954 travelling in Europe!
1957 assigned 3/1/57 to Montevideo, Uruguay
lost cables. Hunt was polygraphed
skips to:
6/18/65 assigned to Madrid as an IO.
1966 working @ NATO intelli.

1970
Give us this Day
Bill Buckley was pushing it Holt Rhinehart declined to publish coz "too controversial."
ibid Arlington House

--- Page 10 ---

SECRET
0002339

HUNT
Hunt left Montevideo in 1960
was in Cuba 12/7-15/56
Mexico 12/50 to 3/5-5
alias "Edward J.Hamilton"
9/27/60 Hunt given
IN 6/63 a po box was opened in D.C. for Hunt under the alias. (Woodridge Station box cancelled 6/65.

1970. retired
7-60 to 10-60 assigned M.CS
1/57 to 6/60 Montevideo.
7/60 to 3/61 was @ JMATE in MC & Coral Gables.

--- Page 11 ---

SECRET
0002340

HUNT
Zwicker compromised an 12/2/60 + cancelled
was assigned "Ference S. Cabanac." as COS in Montevideo
- President Nardone of Uraguay, asked Eisenhower not to transfer Hunt

Envelope:
1960 Personal Information re: Auto accident, desire to stayon in Uruguan assignment and work related problems:
6/27/00 Hunt then to Mexicality
June 27, 1960 to Y to Cuba
PCS under commercial cover.
Duties
polit. action officer, representative to FRD in Eubio Mexico.

--- Page 12 ---

SECRET
0002341

HUNT
6/23 memo from to Dep Dir. SEC. DDS (Inves. + oper. sup) calls Hunt "something of a character and free wheeler! Hunt wants a gun automobile, a Convertable for us

Hunt used on Hangan projecture
Tracy Barnes denies pushing Hunt for position says hes first interested
J.C. King informed of Security's reservations
To Chief SRS/OS From Chief RBISRS/OS,
memo Dated 24 JAN 1/61 O.S. concerned coz Hunt is giving info on operations Uraguan officials
1961
Subject has been a problem in the past and apparently

--- Page 13 ---

SECRET
0002342

Hunt continues to be a problem?
Effective Mais 1962
1962 7/11/18 Hunt reassigned to DDP/DODS
3129-1000-1000.
Facilities franch Research & Publications. D.C.
Chief of branch or Section stayed on Covert funding..
9/21/62 military cover for Hunt established with U.S. Army Element Composite Operations Group. (8738)

11/15/61 Hunt reassigned to:
DDP/CA Staff
Plans & Research Group
Evaluation Branch
D.C..
CF to C.F from DOP/WH/Br4/Temporary
Documents indicate that SIPET Hunt knew Richard Obver as far back as early

--- Page 14 ---

SECRET
0002343

50's
Hunt operation worked in with him 9/61 (approved by Helms)
1/17/62 reassigned DDP/CA Staff
Office of the Chief.
CF to CE
2121-1000-1000
Envelope:
'Re Investigation + Appraisal Info dtd 11/62 + 2/63"
Sanitized version:
11/62 Hunt requests that wife be allowed to work at Spanish Embassy
Security disapproved - big todo, documents,

--- Page 15 ---

SECRET
0002344

Hunt
MEMORANDUM for the RECORD:
subject: Procurement of Intelligence by Mrs. Hunt
1. On 25 February 1963, delivered to Mr. W. Lloyd George, Chief, FI, thermo-fax copies of a memorandum and a letter of transmittal dated 18 and 20 February respectively. Both were prepared by Ambassador Antonio Garrigues for Prince Stanislas Radziwill and taken to the latter in New York by alfonso de Borbon, 2d Secretary of the Spanish Embassy Washington.
2. The purport of the material was to enlist the aid of Radziwell in persuading (a) the President to visit Madrid during his next European trip, and (b) conveying to the President the views of

--- Page 16 ---

SECRET
0002345

Hunt
Ambassador Garrigues regarding U.S.- Latin American relations.
3. Mr. George regarded the material to sensitive to be handled by routine means, and decided to show it only to Mr. Helms
4. On 27 February 1963, Mr. George telephoned to say that had just shown the material to Mr. Helms who speculated whether he ought not take it to the White House at once. Mr. George demurred, out the sensitivity of the source (my wife) whereupon Mr Helm indicated that nothing should be done with the material until Mr. George returned from a Far East trip and could consider the matter further.

--- Page 17 ---

SECRET
0002346

Memo
L.G. Parr
F.R.
5. Mr. George then asked Mr. Helms whether my wife should register under the Foreign agents Registration Act, and Mr. Helms said that under the circumstances she absolutely should not signed H. H.
This upset agency because 4/18/63 "Mrs. Hunt is engaging intelligence collection in the United States-without- any official sanction"
OS objects but C/FIS shows operational interest.
Hunt apparently @ DODS at line
Searge + Helms decide to have her stay on
I so inform security 10 MAY 63

--- Page 18 ---

SECRET
0002347

Hunt writes William Buckley's show on Invisible Government entitled: "Hate CIA week."
Letter from Buckley to Hunt attached to article. Cover Sheet (Routing + Record) says: "The following attached craft column by Bill Buckley will appear in 75 u. 5. newspapers The background of this placement is the fact that Buckeley worked for me as a staff agent in Mexico 1950-51 and we have remained close friends."
Copies to Helms & DCI. 6/1/64.

RE- Investigation Program WAIVED for Hunt.
7/9/64 reassigned DDPLODO US Field / CA Staff
CF to CF
5129-0253

--- Page 19 ---

SECRET
0002348

2/16/55
DOP
Hunt reassigned to operational Services Office of Chief
5-126-0117
CF to V.
Hunt resigned in 1965. went into official State cover.

15/8/68 Hunt worked as DOP representative on CIA team preparing the historical material for the Johnson Library.
Mr. Hunt will be required to have access documents in both the TKH and BYEMAN systems.

Ames Noel came as replaced Hunt as polit. officer for Frente in mid-March's..
Hunt's book terms, Can & Noel as "Coli King's Crony
Cuban who were active in non-frente groups thereby fundercutting him.

--- Page 20 ---

SECRET
0002349

Hunt connection to A "Henry Durkin" via MAXWELL Wil "C.W."
Voluntarily retired after this fracas.
Working on same operation in 1954 as Phillips
Interview report 2//24/70 Mullen & Co. reason: retirement. states that Hunt has taken job and that Karamessines has asked him to keep in touch. Also notes that Mullen does provide cover for agents.

Memo dated 2/22/74 for the record from Laurence J. Howe. re: interview of Ised Evans. Edward Ryan.

--- Page 21 ---

SECRET
0002350

HUNT
Hunt was assigned to Madrid between 7/65+9/66.
Ryan was DC/WED. said Hunt's assignment was handled wo benefit of routing processing was coordinated by Karamessines.
WE. totally unaware of his activities, targets, etc.
Hunt was on "Contract A " Status at time.

2/1974 CIA tries to trace down K & A what it was doing.
2/15/74 memo of interview or Budget O. who would have been responsible for Hunt's
It was his memory that" : mr. Hunt's habit to deal only with the most senior officer available.

--- Page 22 ---

SECRET
0002351

HUNT
couldn't find any record of operation funding in office of finance files.

Envelope.
'Current OS Sources and Methods (not relevant to HSCA inquiry
Envelope:
Documents regarding Hunt's 'letter address' (accommodation address) set up in 1963. and terminated in 1965- (address is still being used by another individual.)"
6/3/70 better memo from c/ccs to OS.
C5A requested orally on 5/28/70 for t under Project QKENCHAUNT.
OS refuses and first gaining concurrence of

--- Page 23 ---

SECRET
0002352

HUNT
to DDP.
approval noted + signed by Karamessines. 10/14/70.
evidently the plan was that Hunt would take management of Mullen & from Mullen

8/30/71 summary
DDP requested Hunt bio
5/10/72 Holograph.
after joining WH staff Hunts novels were sponsored by the CIS.
CCS has asked ID of David St. John.
"Inasmuch from OS.
Author contacted Ed Sayle, SRS:
"Inasmuch as Subject hard written under the guidance of CI staff, Sayle advised against identifying him by name.... He suggested

--- Page 24 ---

SECRET
0002353

HUNT
instead that [ingiving] be directed to refered to Ray Rocca, Deputy Chief, I
Mr. Angelton
Rocca later denies!

Documents on Photo allegation
It was brought to CIA'S attention by Sam Jaffe 9/28/174.
Finance records show Hunt took 11 his sick leave for 4 wk period ending 11/23/63. next 4 wks he took 3hrs. sick leave +27 his annual leave.
travel records show official travel to N.Y 9, 10+13/63.

--- Page 25 ---

SECRET
0002354

HUNT
memo for action taken on the photo allegation
action limited to file review "and a search of our records which produced the lack Anderson article refered to...
"A Bum Rap for Frank Sturgis in Miami WP. 4/16/74.

PB 15. was working under a special assistant to the DDO., Seymour Bolton.
1. Mr. Jo Bolten appeared satisfied and advised AN that no further action appeared necessary at this time."
Did Do AN.
Analysis also discussed potentiality that they would some gay have to present proof to Cong. Comm. that Hurt - there.

--- Page 26 ---

OFFICE of Security
File.
Alexis H. DAVISON
5/7/3 memo for Record
Wash. Post Clipping
Davison trip to Oslo. on Mary 6-63., at end of tour of duty.
5/7/63 NYT article - same subject
Indices Search Request. 5/7/63 found reference to file on Greville Wynne
Memo for Record 5/31/63 by Hasy S. Cline (DDI) re: visit from Lt. Colonel. Donald M. Dessert from Air Force Intelligence re inquires as to whether CIA aps. other than Penchavaky -DDI informed A.D. any him he hadn't.
6/4/64 Memo: mother's address + quote, from Wise & Ross passed to FBI.

--- Page 27 ---

DAVISON
16 May 1966
Check on Marjorie Clare Anderson churned out reference to Davison (Uncle-In-Law).
1 February 71 SRS memo of CIA personnel exposure says Nedela article said ametul operations were being supervised by a Mr. Malcom TOON.
29/Nov/72. SRS memo to files name check on soviet Visa Black hist. request for check from CSCI
Finis.

--- Page 28 ---

SC File.
SECRET
0002357
DAVID LAMAR Christ
1/9/50 memo from Contacts Officer, Personnel Security Branch to Intelligence Integration Division. (name check)
10/20/50 Negative Response
DOB 1/20/18.
TAMAQUA, PA
Address: #2 Mountain, PA.
8/30/50. Request for Investigation to FBI
9/22/50 memo to Chief, Inspection + Security re: clearance for Christ.
Served @ Signal Corps, U.S. Army, WWII
"Security WAIVER"
10/3/50 given security waiver a request for Provisional Clearance, Christ placed in Unclassified Pool on 11/1/050.
8/ Nov./50.
FBI response to Investi of Christ - NR reported by

--- Page 29 ---

SECRET
0002358

"Mr. Shanklin!
11/9/50
P.C. granted for Christ
Electronics engineer
as an
G5-10 in O.P.C "Office of Policy Coordination" predecessor of DDP.
FBI report enveloped. background enveloped.
11/22/50 recommendation from Appraisal Section for Ill security approval.
11/24/50 security approval granted
Notice to Employees Division
11/24/50 notice to Phys. Soc. Branch.
1/23/51 permission for Christ to work part time after hours @ Sholar Services, INC.

--- Page 30 ---

SECRET
Christ -2.
12/11/51
Christ transferred to TSD.
3/3/52 permission granted for Attendance of Institute of Radio Engineers meeting NY.C. 3/3-6/52.
6/19/3-2
Christ security violation for leaving die open.
Saufer + transmittal shelt for report.
7/29/5-2
update on Christ status
address:
5405 Hamilton. St
Hyattsville, Md.
shared apt
Salmero mish.
Diffine
Clyde
SUPERVISOR: PAUL H LEE.
associate: Thom strope

--- Page 31 ---

SECRET
Christ, p. 3.
note
12/18/5-2
there photo
letter Commanding General of Wright-Patterson that Christ will CIA at conference there.
2/26/53 confirmation of Christ security class. to Dec. of R&D, Pentagon.
Christ in Applied Physics. Division of iss.
4/23/53 authorization to attend IRE conference NY.
9/15/53 confirmation of S.C. to Aeronautics.
undated personal action list

--- Page 32 ---

SECRET
Christ - 4
9/28/53 confirm S. c. to DS
10/9/53 IBID to Army Signal Officer
10/30/53 IBID to Navy
11/3/5-3 security violation report + transmittal
3/4/54 IRE
6/9/54 CONVENTION Approval
name ck on Dorothy Anne Sampson out Christ.
10/15/5-4 confirm 3.C. to AEC.
10/29/54 IBID to NAVAL ops.

--- Page 33 ---

SECRET
Christ.-5.
12/18/54
request clearance for "Special intelligence"
12/9/54 clearance requested @ P.S.D.
1/19/55 SC confirm to Signal Corps.
1/31/55 IBID. to Sec. of Def Office
2/24/55 IRE CONVEN. APP.
4/21/55 authorization to remove tech, equip fro CIA Buildings
undated- Panel of Exam. have No to Christ becoming member of CAREER Staff

--- Page 34 ---

Christ -6..
18.15.5
CLEARANCE Cert to Bur- of Aero:
IBID.
3/1/56 IBID
2/21/56 Wright-Patterson
IRE CON VEN.
4/13/56 (G-5-14)
Overseas travel approval. to Japan, Formosa + Korea Air Force
7/24/56 Clear. Cert. to CI. IAF.
7/24/56 request for preceeding
9/6/54 certified to Bureau of Ships

--- Page 35 ---

Christ-7.
9/7/54
SECRET
request for cert.
3/4/57
IRE conver
4/11/57
A.EC. request for Class Q clearance.
4/15/57
IBID
7/19/57
Christ pledge re: Contents of A Security File review For FBI. - means they reviewed it re: clearance: atomic energy
6/25/5-7.
travel outh for various under A.F. Cover
8/15/57
list of Children

--- Page 36 ---

Christ 8
8/20/57
& clearance granted.
9/17/57
travel to South Amer
9/19/57
listing of previous employment. (informal) but doesn't make any sense & may relate to Christ.
3/15/57
Clearance - cert.
9/17/57
for travel auth Air Force cover.
1957 third FBI enveloped Investigation. & transmit
11/8/57
Bio Summary sheet. form 180 A
9/25/57 Invest Trans. Sheet.

--- Page 37 ---

Christ
11/12/57. IBID
11/15/57 IBID
3/3/58 SECRET
assignement from R+D (applied Physics) for Tech. ands/Audio Sup. Div.
2/26/58 request to Records to block CIA associ @ Christ coz he's going under cover.
3/7/58 travel auth. to Karachi Teheran, Ankara, Athens, Frankfurt, Vienna, EX.AL, A.F.. COVER.
4/4/58 cable IN 12282 request sec conf. so he can enter Berlin.

--- Page 38 ---

SECRET
Christ - 10
5/1/58
reopens blocked memo lock J. B
1/22/59
CCB request for block.
1/2359
travel Author
LONON + Frankfort
8/11/60
AF COVER.
"Special Secrecy agreement" re Project ARC"
3/13/60 (G-S-15)
Travel Auth. Rabat AF COVER.
6/12,13/63
OS - Interrogation Research Div. - Info Flag sheet>
Means he was polygraphed As part of debriefing After return from CUBA.

--- Page 39 ---

Christ - 11
9/23/60
SECRET
Credit chk report. + blocks placed
8/20/63
Memo for file says that "Mr. Miller, Chief, Central Cover Staff, and Cormor of the ZRCHEST Panel" reported that Christ was seeking authorization for Toy outside of us.
W.m. Knott DC/SRS says its okay & him.
8/27/63
Security Approval for Project I, A, C and O Phase 3
8/30/63
Security Approval for "CORAL CLEARANCE. OVER HEAD RECON.
9/16/43
Special Intelligence CLEARANCE

--- Page 40 ---

SECRET
Christ-12
9/2/63
Investigative Transmittal Sheet.
9/26/63
approved for "domestic gument in D.C. @ R&D. analysis DDS++'
10/4/63
reports review of cause under "program in the DD/S memo fot program recorded 13 December 1962 reports "No fl recommends flag be
Envelope:
Sensitive Sources & Methods
Memo date 26 Oct 63 C/TSD" deals @ placement of sensitive source still in place. to M.G. attention

--- Page 41 ---

SECRET
Christ......13
9/19/63
change assignment
SD and Transfer auchered funds.
SD = SERVICE DESIGNATION,
Jack Sullivan indicates change from "CE" (covert funds) to "V" (vouchered) presented to.
that "CF" are unvouchered.
Cost CENTER No. Chargeable 4262-1000-1000"
should Ask our questions re: this form to PERSONNEL
65-16
70/27/64
Clearance granted for cryptographic material Briefing statement.
9/10/64
"Memo for Dir. Finance re loss of Offical Funds by by Conviscation Christ "84.23.58"
Castro Confiscated on assignment

--- Page 42 ---

Christ
SECRET
14
FE Division in for in Havana 9/60
"Allotment number 1137-07169-5995
2/16/65
indices search request.!
ENVELOPE:
"Personal Information regarding a third party"
re Christ reproduced.
Apparently he was being entertained by in Cuba + may have led to his arrest.
12/22/64
request for Aging ID.
Age: 46
Height: 6'
Weight: 185
Eyes: Grey
Hair: Brown
1/2/45
Clearance certif. to State

--- Page 43 ---

Christ #15
11/18/64
SECRET
SEC. Cert. to State
1/12/66
Jaun A. Rodriguez
3000 SW za Terrace Miami, Fla.
he was imprisoned Caswell."
1/16/65 SPECIAL CLEARANCE for Project RHYOLITE
2/13/65 RHYOLITE secrecy agreement - overhead recon
Special Clearance RI
12/13/65
4/14/64
EP project ACCESS termination. overhead recon.
2/27/64
Clearance for EP.

--- Page 44 ---

SECRET
0002373
Christ 16
3/2/64 IBID
3/11/64 EARPOP agreement
3/1/67
Appointment - Top Secret Contral Office
Envel:
1967 Agency Bckard ck.
9/29/67
Reavesti process. sheet
4/21/67
approval as emergency
10/12/67
ID request.
9/13/63
ARGON agreement.
CORONA
IDEALIST
OXCART.

--- Page 45 ---

SECRET
Christ 17
9/27/63
Request for entry of Christ for on "Domestic Cover list. afterwhich he will be told to association military cover for operational purposes (probably travel cover again)
4/30/63 at "Reassignment and Change of Service Designation CF "to
Cost Center No. 3125-1990-1000
1/21/64
Cover assignment to 45 Army Element, Joint Operations Group. for operational purposes. ref: request for cover form (323) 9/27/63.
Document entitled
"Notification of Establishment of Military Cover Back stop!"

--- Page 46 ---

Christ 18.
1/22/68
SECRET
Christ imprisoned
Thornton J. Anderson
AKA EUSTACE H. DANGrunt
WALTER E, SZUMINSKI'
AKA Edmund R. TASANsky.
2/3816
Debriefing
Some info. In SRS #3280
Security Violation
5/21/68
4/5/68
EP Clearance
6/12/68
IBID
11/13/68
ID request.
12/19/68
"Termination Understanding"
6/19/69
Outside Activity Approval Granted

--- Page 47 ---

Christ Li
9/13/69
SECRET
Secrecy agreement
8/3/70
8/5/70
8/10/700
Memos
RE: Telegram to CUBA Erroneously billed To Christ.
10/12/70 application for Retirement
181-01-6133
6212 MAIDEN LANE, Bethesda
10/22/70
retirement
"V to V"
11/9/70
letter from Helms.
11/16/70
Honor Recomendation
11/19/70
granted
11/30/70
Resume

--- Page 48 ---

SECRET
Christ 20
11/20/70
Standby Reserve Approval
11/20
ck for DOD Industrial Clearance.
Security Clearance
11/24/70
Secrecy Oath + briefing report
11/16/70
Os has no objection to merit award.
11/24/70
Termi. Secr. agrees.
12/15/70
SEC. Approval for contract work
DEVENC
Revocation of Crypt Clear.
11/24/70
1/4/71
Cross reference to " CUBAN Imprisonment OF CIA AUDIO TECH!
607 446.

--- Page 49 ---

SECRET
Christ 21
12/18/70
"K" ck- internal 'no record'
2/10/71
2/9/71
name ck.
Clearance from DISCO
Name ck Rpt
ENVEL:
1971 Agency Bckard I
4/13/71
11/26/71
ck Donna K. Coston
Secrecy Agree.
DEVENCO
8/10/71
Computer file ref. printant
7/27/71
OCS. SEC. ck request
8/25/71
Case Processing Rec.
8/25/71 response to DCS.

--- Page 50 ---

SECRET
Christ zz
9/26/72
request for contact. security approval.
Household Dator Corys
Reston
10/3/72
Computer Printout
10/5/75
request for Industrial Security approval
9/27/72
Liaison Clearance
9/21/72
Secrecy agreement
11/8/72
Termination DEVENco Agreement
Computer printout
5/18/73
5/30/73
Case processing Rec.

--- Page 51 ---

SECRET
Christ -23
8/14/61
Memor for Record re Mrs. + Cuba Opera.
Christ was Chill NOROTO
AKA Correct NEET
Audio Operations Branch services all request for surreptions instal.
also arrested Robert MEET - CO under State Cover - Arrested + released
Christ's cover: VACI Victor VACHATA ENGINEERING ASSOCIATES, NYC
D.C. attorney: Murphey operation ESCALADE
Hugh Kessler Amembe contact transmitted cover story.

--- Page 52 ---

