180-10145-10233
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SEP 28 '98 10:46AM

Hardway+LEAP
Randall interview
1951 - joined FE division
junior desk.
11/55 (Jakarta) [(Staats cover)]
5/58 disk Chief Indonesia
12/59
mid/61 staff off. FI/FE
9/41 [(Tokyo)] until
6/45
in [backiyo]
St. Off in Station
(branch chief - coordi
foriegn Landes device
igence of MI.)
AREA.
O. for some outside
work-one or little ops.
6/65-Domes. Ops Div
THIS COPY IS NOT
FOR RELEASE.
180-10145-10233

SEP 28 '98 10:46AM

C.O. in DOO
9/700071
operating in U.S.
1/7 FR (foreign resources)
1975.
FOIA officer for DDO
presently in Information
Services Staff
was not D.CO's.
First [Pete Wheeler]
[Feberman]
300 people there: 103.
64.
didn't really know all
the people.
Station was spread out
over at least different
[covers]
was under [air force]
[Cover]
lived & worked
"jutary base" (army
or A.F)
Also Joint MI Staff

SEP 28 '98 10:46AM

11/63 - living on [mura] + reporting to
[HU]
Station was divided
area (target) divisions.
China branch.
Finance people
DDS+T office
SR there but physical
different cover.
(SOME SUPPORT & LOGISTICS).
dramatic decrease in
between 61-65
[300] to [100] no personal
knowledge of reason.
1961-1965

CO's (guess)
"person's" in station co
perawledge all projects
agents & MI
Randall was operation
all MI that they would
CIA sometimes
caught then
1961.

ANYTHING - R was brought there
MI wasnt Reporting to CORRECT

SEP 28 '98 10:47AM

UNSURE → thinks would probably have to CLEAR AS high
AS
CINCPAC - but a FamiliAR @ proceedus,
All Co's had access.
TRUE NAME
thing did maintain
Card file source
regestar for CIA +
MI agents.
Cos
iDCOS
would know all
Chief of Oges if they
had one,
would true name to
crypto file in some
form as all stations do.
source index reported to the
- in some form.
Yes.
SIB
there had to be Military approval before
utilizing agent.
there
guidelines written
from HQ
for exceptions
agents included in
argent file saccess agents
would be.

can't rember nature of
individual (201) filing
system on individuals.
file would lead to
CO if you got a hit.
co would have a project
file & part of it would
[be on personnel.
first time heard allega
LHO was an agent:
1975- FOIA barned
of allegations of assassi-
nations books!
Milcott:
member him vaguly
finance clark at
quiet individual.
can't remember any
associations or any of
Wilcotts duties.
Jack Randall was Chief
of Finance

Wilcott could have
been dispersing off
project/expense him.
would discussed
11/22/63:
maid told him news.
first heard it was LHO
he was ex marine
stationed in japan:
answer: 1975 FOIA duties.
never heard anything about
in Tokyo.
