180-10144-10068
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

THIS COPY IS NOT
FOR RELEASE.

CIA files on these persons were requested and reviewed by HSCA
staff members.

CIA files on these persons were requested and reviewed by HSCA staff members.
"file"
14-61
their contact with the defector to the Agency.

2 Blocks
Greend
Authay. One file reg. a former
(Davis).
military person the defected to ping report of a desurfing conducted by mi intell.
Cave of the remaining
Hindus was
Of the remaining victive withe uratly
And a
"
file si in info. Of the remaining & indies. We were direct by contact upon their ret. to the U.S., the
in surul clas
Webste
U
(*) another returning, H.C.,
it disable that
The mumstances of the Agency's contact w/ to 4 remaining indivs. were deff is well
case. One of res, defectors was [unewittingly interviewed by a CIA office in the an End.
in lopendages] upon his departure from the S.. en route to the U.S. While I's file indicates
that the hyesey considered a full & citrolled debuilding by the CIA & FRI, ch
conducted & Angleton wrote to the FBI saggesting a joint debriefing, there is no
evidence in t's 201 file nor any DCD does. which suggest further contact on the part
of the CIA.
who had melitally been during
retained to the
Das of the individual's was interword by the wavefile reflects that be
had retually been living in the USSR since 19338 was a 11.5. in 1962.
a SEA office furing 20024
dificiebed
He was won by then spin is spaced cover after
He was debuefed by a CIA office using DoD cover after applying for employment.
response to a news paper advertisement. (Rev. of amron file.).
expect with
A plasties
avest debuffings
pular the Rand De loepfin 1959 was th
were conducted of the other two defs. Rbt. E. Nebster, they
where defection
thighly publicized,
was in
More extensive defreefings were conducted of the oltre 2 defe R. & hibster a plastics
expert with the Read sew. long. whore defection to the S.U. in 1959 was highly publicized.
Shortly thereafter, components
net. to the 11.5. in 6/62.
defilet
a goatsbrey
w/in the Agency conducted a
of Webeter in his home tenitory. Whiterker been employed in the S. l. at the teringian stratific
Lestit of Polyleelai Plastics.
BR
$180-10144-10068

22
.....
184
from
Donald Dentelyn
This fact was corroborated by hotter.
by hatte in exployer, fards worked in a FDD in U
Sov. benned of the sitrate of satelligence in 1962 tole the HELA that he specifically
recalled inleting intelligence info regarding the Price Kadis Plant. In fact, benalys
walesves that, during the summer of 1962, he viewed a contact report of am
inting reps. from the CIA's N.Y. fidek office, who interviewed a former Marine
who had dill worked at the Minal Radio Plant following his defection to the USSR.
This person who Devilya" believes may have bee swuild that the living wlis femily
in Minsk. Deneslye advised the Committee that the contact report was filed in a
volume concerning to Misal Radio Plant wheel should he retrievable from the Industrial
Registry Branes which, in 1962, was a component of the OCK.
sade a requent
The user requested a te
The Week
to
both the
(d/Nh8
A The HSCA requested that the CIA provide the Committee t above.
scribed contact report & the C. of materials concerning the Redis last heter
wiew of the docs. in the volume on the. M.R. P. sweated that no such
The IA purseded the votime of ugading the MRP, cut intact report saisted in that
| file loce). The file view did indicate that in 1975, Daniel Schorr had made
a similar request sea ce into fire to the fove Resistive & was informed by
such sport
the CIA that no perested.
the ag. was not able to locate
Of the 29 persons requested, ou presse did not weave
-file for the indiv.
the filed of 6 other induri., the file review did not indicate that they ever ut.
the case
to the U.S.
•The HSCA reviewed
The HSCA
wed.
the CIA
peterpreg. files on the indive who fit the above descubed interia i were provided.
files on the 22
were revived
I well as any existing
1
Bott
201 files.
on whom they maintained records. A
regarding these indies. In the case of bradiis.,
there is as indication in their files that they ever returned to the U.S. Even so, there were.
occasional reports from sources who observed or spoke w/ these
but there is no indication of direct contact of then by the CIA.
(4)
решона
the file view dates that.
while in the S.U.,
In regard to the other 22 defectors, there is no record of direct CIA contact.
w/18 of them. Again, some of. these files contain a report from a source who reprited

u
the gapegled
It becomes clear from the review of files on these defs. that debriefing.
of defectors, was in fact somewhat of a random recrence. However, the
motences as weld the by did chose to debuif returning am defe
instances
mysly to the interested in westly topics of geaval interest rigs. Wife is ca
where are you...
was
of the Swill. In this regard, 00
the persons who were debuifed wen sinder to in that they def. & ret. w/is the same general time periods
ach spent a wine in the S.U. in areas of interest to the LIH.
. Ref. 7/59
Net. 6/25/63
reps.
Mon est, deb, were conducted of the other 2 dife. R.E. W., & plasties expect w/R.A.C.
whose def. to the S. u. in 1959 was highly publicized not to the U.S. in 6/62.
Wihak been imperyed in the S. u. at the then. Scent bastit of Polytic Clastics.
Skritty after his retum, Heras debriefed in his home turitory by one from
00/C, SP/6 & the a F. It was decided that a more ext. debriefing was in veder
i. W was subary, brought to the Washington where he was deb. for a period of 2 wks.
The deb. reprits incl. a chion. of W's life & the IIA's asares. If din as well as
alge. Indy of left. regarding life in the S. U., It's work there & big info.
persons be had met during his residence be
contacted
R.
OR
"
Likewise, hikers Ricciardelle who had clived in the S.l. for nearly 4 yrs.
was labores for purposes of debriefing shortly after his ut. to the U.S. in
late Ture of 1963. His mitial debriefing included suck subjs. as his motivation to
defect to usse as well as neturities engaged in during mossow stay, relocation from
Mosen to knew & general aspects of life such as residence controls & costs
is
the dg. felt that they would the interested in
electing
on suck toples
more safe nege dipe
ists as cost of living, med. care, consumer goods. Silvy highways, transpot...
& restrictions of Rua,
While the CFA felt it was unfeasible to debrief R more theresuighly due to this current
staters of trying to regain U.S.et.,
kg fet

16.22-1125-B: Index cards
#1623-1125-C
Date 30 Oct. 1975
Discusses letters intercepted
States that copies of intercepted letters were passed to FBI in
. ممسلة
course of normal exchange of intelligues. Sebstance doesn't relate to IFIL
"The words examined to date do not disclose whether or not
this information was made wall. to the N.C. by the FBI x CIA.
Vol. 5 608-256-C
writtes by Hitter
h
Letters New forwarded to CIA by letter dated 17 March 1964
from J. tee Rankin, M.C. of N.L. SR. Helms, DDP.
Patro- quentions
Zeil. Backgd.
Ath. ifele on LHO. He
Index cards
NSCA question
1. Agency remporice.
-

testimony
I CIA statements to N.C. (#988-927 BA
CIA info. provided W.C.
#1063-964-B
"affidavit
#1038-405 B
Insert for 17 Staff History
# 1073-964-L)
II. CIA statements to Fensterwold (#961, 962, 969. 970)
CIA statements to HSCA ; NCH ;
TII T.B.C. memo & interviews (#435-173.A)
[#3369]
I. Defectors
(#1004-400)
M.K.
5.0.p..Aco
I G.R.B. request.
609
#610
De Su #1188.-1000 p...
$1.18-673
609-786
610-263
1188-1000
1004-400
1187-
Hock - Rock. Comm.
