```markdown
180-10145-10239

(2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992)

KOSTIKOV, VALERY VLADIMIROVICH

201-305052 THIS COPY IS NOT FOR RELEASE.

VOLS. 1
1959-1962

11110762

[some type of phone memo or [intercept]]
15 Oct 1962

MO asks NEFYEDOV for either SARMASHEV or KOSTIKOV. If neither
is there, NEFYEDOV asks who is speaking. VSEMOCHKIN /ph./. MO
says that NEF doesn't know him. "We are
passing through Mexico," NEF tells MO to
hold the line. GARM takes phone. Morepent
His name - VSEMOCHKIN. MO says
that KOSTIKOV promised to come over. KOSTIKOV tapes
phone. No clips KOST.
get "us", KOST doesn't
able right now, KOST says
he will come and
have a auto avail. MO says
that everything opens at 1000. MO says we will be
waiting for KOST. / apparently MO and
are going to Habana. MO asks
LOST could get 500 dollars that "we"
have spent or the trip. KOST will see about
it.

DOB 3/17/33
MOSCOW.
EMPLOYEE, SOV. EMB., MEXICO CITY, DOI JUNE 1961

180-10145-10239

---

KOSTIKOV
VOL. II JAN. 63- DEC. 64

11110763

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE
15 SEP 64
FBI

"The file of this bureau do not contain any
info to fully support statement in par five
if your proposed draft effect that subj
believed to work for Dept Hirter of
Directorate
Chief
rity & KGB/

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
14 DEC 1963

coverage of Kastor and aferiev
30 nov indicate to particular decration
of their mode activitie, no trace out
Aprox."

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
23 Nov 1963.
at 1250 his on 22 For Cubor Consul
Alfredo Mirabal
Diaz
asped to speak w/
suspect KGB Pavel antorovice
Jatshow.
fatter apparently unavailable and

---

SECRET

11110764

Kositor came on live witx
con
in familiar form to
fou
versation en
ensving
Ros: Forgive
for arriving late.
mir: Did you recover the suitcase?
Kos: yes
Smeri Her it was a
over trip?
arriving
or the
Kos: yes
mir: I called to tell you
the fol
louring, that regarding that matter that
we had talked about, to see if we
would spend furday in Chapultepec
Park because my wife is preparing
tone
to eat
food
Ros: I'm sorry
but I've just made
plans for arotter trip and dis leaving
His very day. So please forgive
go
me for
wit you.
(at this
ата же солест
for being aber to
point Kastidor in error cadressed
agove;
mirabal as
Li....)
Kos: Have
mir: I'd rite
to talk wy Pover yat
nechporen fou already talked w/
spor
Kos: Wait a minute, here come row,
mir:
ез te's busy I've care for
ter, but d're be available for
later
0207
the reeft

---

11110765

Ros: OR

---

SECRET

11110763

4/13/78

Despatch
12/5/63
To: Chief, WH Division
From: Chief of Station, Mexico City
Subj: [SPELOSE] events Lopez

subject checked into Hotel Roosevelt,
Avenida urgentes 287, Mexico D.F.
at 1600 hrs. on 11/25/63, Room 203
or 11/27/63 at 2100 tours crepared for
Havara Cubara High #465
only passergency crew

used U.S. passport # 310162 which
contained a Cubar

---

4/13/78
Classified message

11110767
3/20/64
the
Еледие Ruiз тогомо, сделок
1. Federal Judicial Polici, pormed face
Has one 9
his contacts reported in
late February that suberto Lopes,
U.S. citizer,
was cooled in Presi
dent Kennedy's assassination

---

FBI memo 105-126109
3/31/64

4/13/78

11110763

Subject reported by sources to have
attended gatherings of FPCC in private
residencia, Feb. 11/20/63 and
was expecting to get phone can forr
Cuba in order to get word or his
departure for Cuba.
obtained mex. tourist card at Horo
rary Consulate of mexico in Lampa
11/20/63, entered Tex, by private auto
11/23/63 and departed mexico City er
poute
te to Havaja 11/27/63
U.S. State Repc. contains no vec
record
subjice applying for or being grance
permission for travel to Cuba.
further desc
promerere rose, high frage

FPCC 11/19/63 at torre
mary Just to stow color sudes
taker in Cuba

Lopez identifica by photo as having been
present at the
meeting

---

SECRET

11110763

Cristina amor, Clearwater, Fear, all
had FPCC meetings
at for home
also
Lubard manuel amor had beer
chaurrar
of Jampa FPCC
Aug 1963 they moved to Jampa

Cristina voi arrounced
meeting
that
at 12/8/63
Lopez had arrived

Carried courtegy
Lubar visa
socance
at time of source of mex. Tourist cand
Lopez tod sand is destination was
mexico, valid for 15 day

Louis Size, Tampa are and music Co.;
205 East Tyler St., Samoa places
ad for FPCC in Samppariure or 5/15/6
Jampa FPCC did not exist at that turė
Organized 1/9/6

---

4/13/78

11110770

Guberts Policarpo Lopez
FBI report 8/26/64.
File no. 105-126109
registered for selective Service at ther
West, Fla. 7/29/60 and classifica 4-f
12/23/62 due to
language barrici

under medication for grand
lepsy.
erraired is u.s. about a year and ther
returned to Cuba because of tomesick.
ress
const uillermo

subj

Rodriguez
aduersid
pro-
Castro but not is
ctivity in 4.5.
volved in pro-Castro activity
1/26/40 in Hovara
U.S. passport #3101.62
lived with us Rave Rodriguez
11:24 Seminary street
employed
amour Batery in Keyhase
ese. 5'7", 126 lbs, frown hair, green
eyes, ruddy complexior
braixers
Selits member of Cubar militia

---

11110771

Raimundo Policarpo Lopez
save to Russic by Cuber government
study.
to
lift Keys in late 1963 to go to Jampa
to attempt to return to Cuba
had returned to L.S. 1960 or 1964
because he was afraid of being drafted
into the Cuber militia
or
rid to Blanche andrea foor
8/11/62 before a botary Public in Key
West
wife lived at Porter Peace Housing hojia
in 1964 employed at herver's, ec.,
subj
Key,
did rot
have funds
te
wife stated
to travel to mexico and Cuba;
said to had gotter ficial teep from
ar unrecalled organization; presum
ably in the Jampa area
suby, tad apparently tos no privi
history of epilepsy before coming to the
U.S..
treated by Dr. James D.
sumes D. malgrat
3207

---

11110772
Hagler avenue, Keyst
and Driving Perconcetter recrosurgeo
is miani

---

SECRET
4/13/78
Classified message
Date: 11 Jul 60

11110773
To: Director
15-20
from:
Borr
[Redspir]
Ref [[Bor] 9956
1.
20-20
[that] Cice [FRDB] 7794]
FROB/7294
20
to [FOS] and pre
Subj ref well known to [[F05]]
crously contacted by ward o]
[Provey][PBPre]
2. appreciate the offer but at present
[Proper] or have therefore defer to
HQ for full debriefing
(TAC)

---

SECRET
4/13/78
DDO

11110773
3 gray
1977
hens for: Chief, logo and Privacy Staff
from: Charles A.
Виддо
DDO erfo
Review
officer
Pla
Suby: Priscilah.P.
A. Request
Ref
no. P-76.1861
о
B. OS Referral dated 1 Dec 1976
5. the following documents should be
referred to the appropriate Govt.
agencies and components as indicated
•Lab D).
Doc # 125
басничек,
FBI Report or Howard Sachurek,
17 Sept 1964, which mentions subject.
This reproduction is not very legible.
We ask the FBI to dering the release
His Report as all the fo contained
д
Herein is from the CIA and involves
cover, ecc. Amal based or
Privacy
act exemption's (j)(1)(b,e) and (K) (1)
7. His Directorate also has two
D.CD elligence exformation Reports

---

SECRET
4/13/78

11110774
fire) C-102798 (old fire (-70300)
storie Date: May 58 three act. 76
Classifica message
7 Jul 60

15-13
From: Bour]
20-20
20-13
Far FROB] Cire [Bot]9956
Redskins
Priscilla Johnson, age 32, form Fong
forg
scard, for past two years employee
north american newspaper acance
Toscow, now unemployed because of
Soviet refusal to renew visa,
ping Bad Godesberg & July for
several
scop
days, possibly week, or way
fack to United States. Purpose of Bad
Godesberg visit is to discuss ter
домовед
future with Ed factermayer,
Bour
correspondent of Wall Street Journal
who old acquaintance, martine R.
Cauchior, who acquainted w/ factor
rayer, will see Johnson. altrough
doubtless HP will doubtless wist
debrief for upor return to States,

Canon could arrange for
Cauch
5-20
intro
unction of [FROB/ officer for social and
exchange of crens meeting is Bad Godes
Y/AC

---

11110775
beng if desired
SECRET

---

SECRET
4/13/78
DDO
DCD. Doce
Report no. 00-B-3,239,4
49

11110776
Date Distr.
19 Oct. 62
Country: USSR
Date of Lofo: apr. 62
Place + Date of acq. moscow 16tep 62
Subject Reported attempt of Khrushche
ife
Or 16 September 1962,
while visiting
moscow, I talked wit a Soviet friend
who is a freelance journalist.
SECRET

---

4/13/78
DDO
Report no.: 00-B-3,239,848
Date Histr.: 24 Oct: 62
country: USSR

11110777
Date of cope: Aug - Sept. 62
Date and Place of acg.: moscow/ Femin
gad/fordor aug-Sep. 62

Beljice targes in Cultural Affairs/
Party officials Patonge thirs

---

LURET
of which the
subjice

11110773
was the source
DCD will not release these reports
via the mail. However, if subject
wishes to see them, we whic allow her
to review them, ir.
in the presence of
ar
will
saritizia four,
agency officer.

---

SEGRET
11110780
13 Dec 1977
name for Chief, drops and Prency Staff (U)
From Robert E. Ower (U)
sofo
:
Review officer
Suby scilla P. John the millon (U)
Reference
(c) after considering the concer
expressed by mr. bere in Reference D,
agree that are references to possible
[ procese of the USSR of this DCD]
Contact should be denied for. accord
erigly, we have
ис
further santifed the
following documents to reflect this
targe: 63, 64, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82,
83, 84, 85, 86, 88, 89, and 90. Resanitized
copies
inserted into proper places in
д
He letter and in the IPS toldback
раскаде
tese documents have beer
V

---

SEGRET
Classified ressage
Date: 3 Way 58.
To: Director
From: [Paris]
13/78
DOD

11110781
11.
Suby reports tas received four-
worth tourist Soviet visa and plans
depart withir next two weeks. upor
arrivai moscow will explore job posse
opportunities. Plans take
Riga.
boat ra
2. Suby has agreed "Embassy" briefing
prior departure. Expressed witing.
ress do what could during time
was cow, gratter not pursued
subject not yet
cleared.
Subj has sor friends whom will
contact upon arrival, ale
from
tellectual and artistic writes.
Belive after careful briefing suby
could act as spotter and
night
cor
tact appropriate Sons of interest Kubark
also letter mailing.
C/MC

---

JOHNSON PRISCILLA
201-1027798

11110782
78
Revie
9
201 file or U.S. Citizer 3 gar.
75
car mose accurately be
witting collaborator.
categorizia
as

---

4/17/78
O.S

11110783
REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OF INVESTIGATIVE ACTION.
C1/ OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORD DIVISION
SEC. SUPPORT DIVISION/ OFFICE OF SEC.
SPECIFIC AREA OF USE.
LONDON UK
25 MAY 1962
FULL DETAILS OF USE
CLEARANCE TO
EMPLOY SUBJ
AS NEWS EDITOR - WRITER"
(CHINA
FOR MAGALINGS SUBSIDIZ50 BY/DTLEAFAGE]] (
QUARTERLY & ENCOUNTER) AND SOVIET SURVEY.
SECRET
RIF

---

-SECRET
4/17/78
O.S.

11110784
THIRD AGENCY DOCS:
FBI REPORT DATED 24 JAN 56
STATE CABLE FROM Moscow TO SEC OF STATE
DATED 22 JUNE 1960
CONTRA #16476
EMSTEL 3.54
SECRET

---

INDICES
SECRET
4/17/78
O.S

11110785
ND NY TIMES
26 MAR 64
OSUALD, LEE H
D MEMO DATED
GEORGE R,
15 FEB 1962 IN FILE OF WALLROOT,
* WINTERS, GEORGE P., JR. - 16 DEC. 1960
VAN HOLLEN EDITH ELIZA.
MEMO TO CH/CI/SRS
2/25/57
JOHIUSON, PRISCILLA
HOTEL METROPOLE
Moscow USSR.
*90079
+
* MEMO FOR CI STAFF 10/30/58
-
- P. G
SECRET

---

CHIEF SRS.
M.D. STEVENS
SVETLANA STALINA
#505112
SECRET

11110786
25 APR 1967
THE THEN PRISCILLA JOHNSON WAS OF INTEREST
IN THE OSWALD CASE, IN THAT SHE MET
LND AND
INTERVIEWED HIM IN
Moscow soav AFTER HIS
ARRIAL THERE AND REMIKIATION.
OF HIS
U.S.
CITIZENSHIP. AFTER THE
ASSASSINATION SHE WROTE
A
NUMBER OF
ARTICLES ABOUT HIM.
THE INDIVIDUAL WE
APPEARS TO BE MASTERMINDING
STALINA'S VISIT TO THIS COUNTRY AND THE PUBLICA-
TION OF HER BOOK IS GEORGE F. KENNAN, #31883
(0+C), FORMER US AMBASSADOR TO THE SOU. UNION.
IT WAS NO WHO RECOMENDED PRISCILLA JOHNSON
MCMILLAN TO HARPER AND ROW AS ONE OF FILE
RUSSIAN SPEAKING EXPERTS. MR. KENNAN SEEMS TO
BE ACTING IN CONCERT WITH EDWARD S. GREEN-
BAUM, WHO BECAME STALINA'S PERSONAL COUNSEL
..
AFTER VISITING HER IN SWITZERLAND.
SECRET

---

5/17/78
O.S
SECRET

11110787
BE LNO ADDRESS BOOK TRACES]
LAPPEARS TO BE
(8) PAGE 61 (PAGE 22 OF REPORT)
JOHNSON - Moscow.
JONNSON'S OS FILE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY
M. PAUL HARMAN OF C
IN REGARD TO THE CWALD
MATTER.
SECRET

---

SECRET

11110783
8 APRIL 1964
MEMO FOR THE RECORD
SUBJ: CHO
ADDRESS BOOK
FBI RPT 12/31/63
Reference is made to prevrois memorand
concerning item found in subject's
address book. The following additiorai
wased from the file of os:
что
[separate page].
memo to files
сто
the following is the result of office o
Security file revisores #36-40
#36 Danmar, Transi (Jancy)
Otkryt s
(oper from) 11.2.71
Biographic Register... nancy Dam
mar, or employee of the State Depo, was
for 8 Day 1919 in eliais. She has
beer assigned to several posts in the
for East and is currently in hranica.
#37 Dzsonsor, Vil your
William HE gohrsor.
#289 217.
# 401 625 BB
SECRET

---

SECRET

11110789
Bor 10 Sept 1907 in Wash. P.C.
1934-39 teaching
teaching & research in Europe,
prisonly USSR
contributed articles to Day
1941-47: Johnoor and to wife were
onnected with cited organization
close associates reported as menters
of Fe Comm. Party or comme sympathizer
alleged that wife was CP menter
1943-46:
Johnson was chief, Russia
Political Section, US Military Lotell
дене
1947-1955: Carnegie extitute of ca.
1955: university of Pittsburg
1966-67: research in USSR, Polard,
yet, yigo under Dept. State sponso

12mor. 1953 disapproved for any use
by CIA
mar 1967: was of interest to Des the
should be appivacted with extreme
Caution and nor be exposed to class.

#39 Dzfors, U.
(John, U.).
no record
record
Persora vor grater USA
SECRET

---

>
SECRET

11110790
40
DzleRob, R
Persona/vor grata
(Jacob, R.)
Rectará c.
с.дасов,
#201 610
was for
24 Tray 1936 in Altoona, Pa.
Jacob W
of was &
CIA employee from 1960-69
a result of
He was p.n.ged as
the Perkov-
DRY case Clearance was issued for him
as a gooter-assessor in
for
march 1972 as row a
in new york City.
store froßer
SECRET
RIF

---

ALNE MOSBY
REVIEW
SECRET
4/17/78
THIRD AGENCY MATERIALS

1111079
FBI MEMO DTD 4 NOV 1964
RUSSIA
RE SAMMY- ESPIONAGE-

DEPT. STATE MEMO OTD 8 AUG 1967
RE CONERECTION
WI. ALINE MOGBY
FBI RPT
DTD 4 AUG 1964 RE ISAAC HENRY SHAPIRO,
LUDMILA SHAPIRO
Extract from FOR, SUCG DISPATCH #392
Гром
AEMB MOSCOW TO
WASH DTD 12 DEC 1960, SUBJ:
WESTERN CORRESP. 'S
IN
MOSCOW
EXTRACT FROM
BIDTO
SEPT 1958
2, 7, 10, 23, 30 OCT. 1958.
SECRET

---

MOSBY, ALINE
SECRET
4/17/78
US

11110792
MISS
T
N RECOGNIZED NAME AS CORRESPONDENT WHO WAS
[ COMPROMISED
PROMISED
- NEWS ARTICLE, EVEN PHOTO - DONE BY
DIRECTORATE II, DEPT 10, SECTION
WORKING ON ALL
CORRESPONDENTS; IN HEARD ONLY SHE WAS [COMPROMISED
OP]
DID NOT COMPROMISE HERSELF - KGB RAN OP.
ACCREDITED FOR NIXON
USGR Trip JULY-AUG 59
STAMP "RECORDS OG/SRS
MAY OR MAY
NOT
CONTAIN ADDITIONAL INFORMATION,
BRUCE L. SOLIE.
SECRET

---

MOGBY ALIVE
-SECRET
4/17/78
Os

11110793
OR 72
E402610-C
/D MEM
03 APR 72
SHAPIRO, HENRY
/N MUGBY, ALINI
OR E412610-C
/YF
/A MUGBY
EILEEN
/D... FBI
04 AUG 68
P2 SHAPIRO, ISAAC H
SECRET

---

MEMO
MOSBY
SEGRET
4/17/78
O.S.

11110-94
TO ACTING CHIEF, FIOB/ SEC. RESEARCH STAFF
Frau: E MENDOZA.
SUBJ ALINE MUGBY
мову.
#172 252 C.
A-119
Васковано
BORN 27 JULY 1922 AT MISSOULA MONT
B.A. DEGREE FRON UNIV. MONTANA 1943
EMPLOYED UP IN 1943
IN SEATTLE OFFICE
7 MARG
TRANSFERRED TO NOLLY WOOD
ALLEGEDLY FIRED BY UP, FOR LEAKING INFO TO
CONFIDENTIAL"
MAGAZINE
Became AffILIATED
WITH
N.AN.A. DURING
1950'S AND IN 1958 WAS KNOWN TO BE
RESOING
IV BRUSSELS
SUBSEQUENTLY RENIRED BY UPI: MUSCOW 1958-
1961 ON STAFF ON HENRY SHAPIRO.
SINCE Ki6!
WORKED IN BONN.
RETURN TRIP
TO MOSCOW DURING 19.64
NOTATION: CHANDWRITTEN)
27 SEPT 73
CURRENT INTEREST CLOSES
SECRET
BRUCE SOLI

---

-SECRET
AGENCY INTEREST
... NO CLEARANCE REQUESTS.

11110795
COVERT IIMNOSTI
GATION WAS CONDUCTED IN
1958 AT REQUEST
of
SRDIVISION
SECRET

---

SECRET
4/17/78
31 MAR 11110796
CHIEF RESEARC
BRANCH/ SRS.
FROM: M.D. STEVONS
SUBJ : LIND CASE
(ADDRESS BOOK).
PAGE 45 OF ADDRESS BOOK.
20575 SHARAPOV
MINSK
HOUSE NO.4 APT. 24
UL. KALININA
NOTATION: USWALD'S RET.
ADD ON LTR TO JOHN
TOWER SEN. - TEXAS 1962
E. MENDOZA
NAME ALSO APPEARS AS "COMRADE SHARAPOV 20525
ON STRIP OF PAPER IN OSWALD'S WALLET WNEW INTER
VIEWED BY MART ELLO
SECRET
SECURITY INDICES.
(1) LT. COL. NIKOLA
GEORGIYEVICH SHARIPOV
RIS CAREER OFFICER OLDTIME CHEKIST W/
INTERROGATION EXP.
1942 CHIEF OF SMALL COUNTER - ESP SECTION
SECOND DIR. OF NKVD
1942 HELD RANK OF CAPT
TIME AFTER FEB 1954 WAS CHIEF OF
AS OF SOME
IN SEVENTH CHIEF DIRECTORATE MVD
... HAS A SON ABOUT OSWALD'S AGE
A. SECTION
.... CIA INFORMATION RPT 24 FEB 1955 TITLED
ORGANIZATION FUNCTIONS AND PERSONALITIES OF
THE KGB: WAS LISTED AS THE SUB-SECTION.

---

SECRET

11110797
CHIEF
OF THE SURVEILLANCE SECTION (NN)
OF
THE INDEPENDENT SECTIONS OF THE NKGB (x
DIRECTORATE?)
(2) EY BELITSKIY IDENTIFIED.
AS ONE THE DIRECTOR OF
P. 1. SHARAPOV
ALL RUSSIAN TEXTILE
SYNDICATE IN NEW YORK CITY, SYINDICATE WAS.
TROLLED BY SOVIET GOUT.
со
(3)
LT. GEN. ANDRE, RODIONOVION SHARAPOV of
SOVIET MILITARY STAFF COMMITTEE AT UNITED
NATIONS WAS INVOLVED IN SOU. ESPIONAGE CINFO
PROVIDED TO FBI IN 1948)
TOOK OVER DUTIES OF NEAD OF 1ST DEPT
INTELLIGENCE IN US BEFORE JUVE 1948
OF 50u.
SECRET

---

SECRET
HONE NUMBERS AS OF 8/15/60
72-66-81
72-43-04
117178

11110793
UN MOSBY NOTE TO
ALEX PARKER)
MOSBY INDICES.
DOLBERG
ALEX
SMITH, FITZGERALD
6/22/59
WINTERS GEORGE P. JR.
12/16/60.
BELITSKY, BORIS
9/5/58
SHAPIRO HENRY
8/7/64
INTER
ERVIEW 2210
W/ GEORGE WINTERS
SUBJECT (WINTERS) STATED THAT ANOTHER NEWSPAPER
QMAN IN MOGLOW WAS PRISCILLA JOHNSON
TION: JOHNSON ALSO CAME IN CONTACT WITH.
Moxow
SECRET

---

SECRET

11110793
ATTACHMENT
SUBS: BELITSKIY BORIS YEFIMOVICE #175069-550
MOLBY
ALINE #172252
ACCORDING TO
SEVERAL SOURCES BORIS Y. BELITSKIY
IS AN ASSOCIATE OF ALI NE MOSBY, WHOSE SALE
APPEARED IN OSWALD'S ADDRESS BOOK,
PRISCILLA JOHNSON, #71589-DL, SHE HAS BEEN
MENTIONES II. NEWSPAPER ARTICLES.
RECALLED HAVING coutin
AS LIVE WHO
CONTACT WITH LEE
HARVEY OSWALD IN MOSCOW, WHERE SNE INTER-
VIEWED (OR TALKED WITH HIM. HER NAME, LIKE
MOSBY WAS LISTED IN HIS ADDRESS BOOK UNDER
HER LAST NAME ONLY.
SECRET

---

CONFIDENTIAL
ANGLETON
OFFICE OF SECURITY
MEMO
↑ JULY 1975
FOR:

11110576
6/30/78
INSPECTOR GEN'L
SBBJ: POSSIBLE QUESTIONABLE ACTIVITY
27 June JIM ANGLETON TELE
WALT ELDER. DAVE AVARON OF THE SSC
2. BACKGROUND: ON
PHONED
STAFF HAD
YORK
UNCOVERED A STAFF AGENT
IN
NEW
ино HAD BEEN AN AGENcy MAFIA PENE-
TRATION
WHICH ANGLETON
WAS MADE
SAID AWAOMBEMAN
9 THE
AUTHORIZATION
OF
ATTY GEN' ROBT
F KENNEDY IN 1963. THE AGENT
HAD TRIED TO
FUL AND
CONTACT HIS
CASE OFFICER
SO HAD INSTEAD
INSTEAD CONTACTED ANGLETON.
BUT
WAS UNSUCCESS-
3. I DISCUSSED THE
IN SUMMARY HE TOLD ME THAT THE AGENT,
MATTER WITH JOHN GREANE
[ MARIO BROD, IN
TACT
IN FEB. 1963 HAD COME INTO CO-
WITH HERBERT ITKIN WHO HAD
INFO
BOUT LINKS BETWY THE CHICAGO TEAMSTER UNION
AND THE
MAFIA [ BROD. ] REP'D THIS TO HIS CASE
A FEW DAYS THE DDP (NEWS)
OFFICER, AND IN
DISCUSSED THE MATTER
انا
RFIC BECAUSE OF
KENNEDY'S
REQUIREMENTS FOR INFO
ON
HOFFA
AND W/ SAM PAPICH OF THE FBI
[
BROD] WAS TO BE
CONFIDENTIA AS AN
FB1

---

CONFIDENTIAL

11110577
AND TURN HIM OVER TO THEM. CIA COULD
SOURCE
NOT TORE
OVER BROD ] TO THE FBI BECAUSE HE
WAS A LONG TIME AGENT (RECRUITED IN ITALY
IN 1944 BY JAYGS ANGLETON) WHO AND OPERA-
TIONAL INVOLVEMENTS FOR US IN
OTHER PLACES. IN MR 1963
HAITI
AND
BROD TURNED
ITKIN OVER TO THE
F81 BUT UNFORTUNATELY
WAS A HANDLIN
A STRING ON HIM. ITKIN
PROBLEM AND FROM TIME TO TIME WOULD RETURI
TO BROD FOR ADVISE AND SO FORTH. Росса (с)
PREPARED A FULL BOOK ON THE
BLOD CAGE BU
..
IN PSEUDO
certain
9 JUNE 1975
ITKIN/
ONLY ARE MENTONED
ARTICLE NAMED
CONECTION W/ CIA
TIME
MAFIOSO IN
CONFIDENTIAL

---

CONFIDENTIAL

11110573
INGLETON
OFFICE OF SECURITY
(TELETYPE NOV 1976
FM FBIS LONDON
TO RUDIC/AMEMB LUNDON)
ANGLETON INTERVIEW/ LONDON DOMESTIC T.V.
A. WELL, I CAN GAY THAT MAIL COVERAGE WAS
VERY SUCCESSFUL ON OSWALD.
CORR
WHAT
COLα
MEAN SUCCESSFUL
WELL, SUCCESSFUL IN THE SENSE THAT WHEN HE
APPEARED AS THE ASSASSIN OF THE FRES. AND
IN THE FIELDS THERE WAS
WENT
BACK
WHEN I
CORRESPONDENCE FROM
AN INSIGHT THAT
MOSCOW THAT GAVE
NO AGENTS
HAVE GIVEN TO THE
MAN
COULD POSSIBLY
}
CONFIDENTIAL

---

SECRET
SED. DE MORENSCHILDT
OFFICE OF SECURITY

11110573
12/30/174
BY JERRY G. BROWN; GAG
LEFT DALLAS AFTER 19 ARR 1963 FOR A TRIP
TO N.Y., PHILA. AND WASH. DC, THEN TRAVELING
TO HAIT
NO INFO IN TESTIMONY
20
CONTACT W,

I WHAT THEY WERE DOING
19 APR-
LATE MAI
1963
QN APR 29 1963
GALE ALLEN DGD
CASE OFFICER
HAD REQUESTED
AN EXPEDITE CHECK ON JE M
"EXACT REASON UNKNOWN'
INTEREST
IS INTERESTING THE ALLEN'S
COINCIDED WY THE EARLIER PORTION
TRI.
BLY
AND THE INTO WOULD SUGGEST
IN DEM
OF THIS
THAT POSSI-
IN THE SAME
IN
ALLEN + DEM WERE POSSIBLY
ENVIRONMENT
WASH DL CIRCA
26 AR 1963
8 APR 1964.
2
[ED TORAZ.]. CIA CABLE
IN 65452 [from]
RELATING TO
CONTAINS INFO REGARDING
[MANAGUA] DATED 20 NOV 1963
OGWALD MATTER
ONE E. TORRES (PROBABLY EDELBERTO TORRES OF
MEXICO CITY
TORRES
ALSO MENTIONED IN CABLE IN 68376
SECRET

---

SECRET

11110580
FROM MEXICO CITY/DATED 26 NOV 1963
H. WARNER KLOEPFER
WAS OF INTEREST TO
00/C. [DOMESTI
CON-
TACTS SERVICE] DURING SEPT 1963, APPARENTLY
IN RELATION
TO
OSI [OFF. SCIENT. INTELL.] RE-
QUIREMENTS
мемо
1/7/44
MAJOR BISHOP
179 E. 79 ST
NYC
GIVEN AS REFERENCE BY
GEO DE M
-SECRET

---

CONFIDENTIAL
EPSTEIN
OFFICE OF