180-10145-10287 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TRANSMITTAL AND DOCUMENT RECEIPT

TO: Mr. Michael Goldsmith
FROM: Select Committee on Assassination
HSCA Office of Legislative Counsel
Central Intelligence Agency
Room 7 D 35
Washington, D.C. 20505

House of Representatives
3381 House Annex # 2
2nd & D Street, S.W.
26 Jun 73

THE DOCUMENTS LISTED HEREON ARE FORWARDED FOR:
INFORMATION ACTION RETENTION LOAN

CONTROL NUMBER DOC. DATE SUBJECT (Unclassified preferred) CLASS.
Folder 9
#2B
HSCA
Notes of Wolf and Goldsmith (HSCA request (Wolf) 26 Jun 78
0001742 - 0001761 SECRET
Information on 201 files HSCA request (Wolf) 25 Jun 78
0001762 - 0001787 SECRET

THIS COPY IS NOT FOR RELEASE.
RETURNED FOR RELEASE 1999

RECEIPT
SIGNATURE (acknowledging receipt of above documents)
DATE OF RECEIPT
GRY 3772B
0-76 19570
RETURN TO OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
ROOM 7 D 35
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

10145-10287
WHITE, RETURN COPY
PINK, ADDRESSEE HOLD BACK
CAVLOV

--- Page 2 ---

SECRET
Surfing 2/19/78
Sill Donnelly, Chief of Information Services Staff
Mike Cliffy
Virginia Toses
Opening of 201 files

PRODUCTION
Operational interests
Trace would be collected
1992) missing materials + 905 201
Trace produces refs., not documents. In early '60's, it produced index cards.
ipas

lave officer - it's his judgement which determines whether of no intention of continuing interest, 201 may not be opened. If may not open a 201.

If this type of info. comes in, it would go into index
There are certain criteria:
(1) Recruitment
(2) High-Level Communist officials
There are some operations willed are run out of headquarters, case, a case officer is involved.

PR. 7.I - PRODUCTION
Pt. II
Right PapBITED
pp. involvement of headquarters, in which
There should be a doc. indicating reasons why a part-person is not recruited.
There should be a reference in 1st file to document in and file if Here is one.
SECRET 0001742
PAGE COPY NO.
to

--- Page 3 ---

SECRET

Central Cover Staff
OCR
CIA - State Dept. integration
Mot
"sig heaf cover" - where S.D. employees are aware that CIA emp. is in fact employed by
more integrated cover where a person would do a full-time S.A. job & a CIA job which is unbeknownst to rest of S.D. employees
"a "deep official cover", as well as a "deep cover"
am. citizens or most fought general rule, have a security
If that type what my.

Could be used in some manner would, as a...
an official on kaster goot. agency or from military, would have to be consulted.
DAL
Probably would use that org.'s
PLS - Pricy & Co-ord Staff.
Lx would be involved in co-ord. of a project in which both the CIA; org. was involved
Another
To the extent of CIA involvement, files would be maintained. That is not to say that potter would not have more comprehensive files.
Project file.
Sheplies
OCR - Registr nature are
ARCKER NTAC
office of Central Reference roles of ships, things of intelligence maintained were
Photos of prominent persons in G
Photos of tourists of randon
Brancam groups would not be of interest
Susu Office Vouchered / Uncovered Fund
P&R : Prescribed & Limited - refers to communications which are
Opening of P&L channel of comm. is determined by one of 3 persons -Chief of PCS, ADDO, OL DDO
0001744
SECRET
PAGE 3 of 22
COPY NO.

--- Page 4 ---

SECRET
This has always been true - In earlier times, it may have been restricted by ever fewer persons.
Is
P&& communication may, in time, be downgraded ; may never be destroyed.
Is it possible, in context of a CI threat, in case of our hypothetical that safp. would not be compiled in a 201 file yes, it is conceivable that many does. would exist in
to be a ten not be competed into a 201 if there down't appear to be a ra
REPROZL
Pseudo: false name IBITED
DID
Gries of communication.
crypto: used to it. area of sps. by digraph, followed by group of letters
You cannot assign a cryptonym w/out having a 201 #
If hypo.
Am. soldier ists has given away mil. secrets & then defects, a 201 file would not necessarily have been opened - it might be a mil. matter.
I staff may have had interests in defector
In early 60's, there was an interest in defectors.
Dan's
Hypo
Sed on ZeRIFLE:
station
574 A form: request to put doc. into
? 1897
In op. such as ZRRIFLE,
ZRRIPLE, de mate officer handling severely Per - might never go into system except upon determination
"Sleeper agent" hypo: to Dun 2or 3 sleepers in Comm. China [[station there] ]
doesn't accessarily have to know it since it is being sux from Hates. - from DAP to LI Staff- reasonable scenario
Would a 201 be opened or sleeper?
Competing of secrecy Dr. Deing able to keep track of sleeper
-ND 201sured-co.inder.-
Change of sleeper to Am soldier defecting to E. Shimary report comes in
If from reliable source stating that sleeper is providing info.
SECRET 0001745
PAGE 4
COPY NO.
00

--- Page 5 ---

SECRET
This has always been true - In earlier times, it may have been restricted by ever fewer persons.
(2)
Pish communistion may, in time, be downgraded ; may never be destroyed.
is it possible, in context of a CI threat, in case of our hypothetical that caps. would not be compiled in a 201
many coven't does. would resistin
Pseudo: false name
to be a ten
REPROZ
201
it is conceivable that
I not be competed into a 201 if there
PROHIBITED
communication
crypto: need to it area of sps. by digraph, followed by group of letters
You Cannot assign a cryptonym w/out having a 201 #
hypo.
am soldier ists has given away mil, secrets & then defects, a 201 file would not necessarily have been opened - it might be a mil. matter.
(I staff may have had interests in defector
In early 60's, there was an interest in defectors.
Dan's
Jeypo
Med on ZRRIFLE:
574 A form: request to put doc. into suction
? 1897
In op. such as
"
"
RIFLE dold may the Lato surten except upon PS mination officer handling
PROHIBI
severely Pil - might mit go
sever
..24....
lase.
"Sleeper agent" hypo: to in 2013 sleepers in Comm. China [station there]
doesn't accessarily have to know it since it is being sux from "gitis. - from DAP to LI Staff - reasonable scenario
Would a 201 be opened or sleeper?
Competing of secrecy Dr. Deing able to keep track of sleeper
- AD 201 Bured- co.inder.
Change of sleeper to Aim. soldier defecting to E. Semanys-report comes in
If from releable source stating that sleeper is providing info.
SECRET 0001745
PAGE 4 of
COPY NO.
1/24

--- Page 6 ---

SECRET
Plans would take place is small room in (I
-
firm must be signed by ADO
pp. Frile would be held at II stat
Op. files
:
I staff: would be put into op. file in the suly.
ODUCTION
: Communication Equipment
A general POHIBITED
or at action divé.
destroyed according to guidelines.
Is it possible for someone to have both a 201 file & theme Personnel file?
yes
REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED
ECRET 0001746
02

--- Page 7 ---

11/26/2870
LUNCI
Records Administration - heli diffe directincts -et up
-Burce Johnion
+ George Frattas
records sys
-RIO- defunct designation for / Info Services Staff at DDA.
ISAS
RA
handlion
PRODUCTION
PROHIBITED
ISS
000 records
Dow has a filing sys cats Half
unto
assistance.
Any $8
XX
Сак... стве
QA to
upon
But Do
filing sys.
guideline
is
work.
give
also design its.
RA's legal
followed. But RA usually.
other filing sys.
informed of hay
REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED
Day to
decentralize
indiv
ISS Central
f file
is aso heart forl
for division Cier and systems.
-/or
ithers of recond valore
Special material might not go into
conntral file.
ie special Correspondence
CRET 0001747
PAGE 6 of 20
COPY NO.

--- Page 8 ---

Prescribed & Limited
SEGRET
-highly sensitive info
Certain indivi senior designation
+ cover staff officer
info limited distri
рисов
BY ABO
dels cover
cover agent
in
PPL designation - deep hostile territory designation.
this be
-
REPRODUCTION
Uncommand
10 or 15
PROHIBITED
receive this
would not
of this kind.
YN ago, w/ suple venitive oplations, th this was relatively con
* Poss: for something that to be so sensitive file it.
201
ст
CI staff has many you. place hames in passi to that
ола
доне
igned.
accumulation now catching up central index.
LaCTION
to a......
fole
to locate.
lived.
Could Open 201 file w/o of plise assoc to Johnson, giving indication
CIA.
This, according would be invesponsible.
SEGRET 0001748
?
08 20

--- Page 9 ---

Georj
Fredbar Cryptonym
"
201-
SECRET
world ве in 201 file.
need for in order a continuing file.
interest to open a
Source
to
adversary
KGB
SPROESTION
Counteri
PROHIBTIED
igence threat
-72α file would who matter of dayp assuming Source grain in to
ведешков
or
ick
accurate,
Amerian...
Licence
it giving inf Germany who russians.
To locate where documents filed to prior fice, refer to Jocument.
leeper
that were being placed in
DEPONECTIONtrad sys
whe
PROHIBITED
P&L assigned to him.
his in Ger
: no
シン
201
ü is инве actually film. B possi.
Cave officer would 201 file.
prevent opening of a
Intragency
igent: poss
juice register exists =>
DECRET
agency moring. Same
6001749
PACE
P
of

--- Page 10 ---

Graphics index
SECRET
will not routine pictures of tourist contain groups
201 fils will not newly countain pictives.
(Central
REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED
inales
+ certain but.
This info would not next
"There is
разе
Correlated
did say
passi for crypt.
201 file not to contain deeppover - there people don't in their tyve
But Barton
201's
There are not opened
REPRODUCTION
Love qui's
ви
in pueden for sion of a 201 fice
Local offices offices have working on of
File other them 201
subject fils project files.
policy ouguntion
SECRET
particu forget.
0001740
DAGE
OPPY NO.
02

--- Page 11 ---

involved,
Projects fila
even
L
SECRET
in wh.
for every project by Agency, i
proved run
(ie. DOD).
ву
another
org
staff- involved
civer.
#
Hof
deep cover.
REPRODUCTION
قبة
PROHIBITED
in
creation of
in setting up.
Co be at least 12
unless
love to
000
you
auch a deep cover programs a
exist
There is
Cryptonyas
tuve
wome
.
Central listing
this list you get.
a
From
them
there is one.
Nail
до
stall personnel
age.
L'ho
dus
REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED
201
P.201
will include
--Pou."
There
بیان
bad filing sys by
J
name, pivelonyon, crypt, hoi.
true name,
SECRET 0001751
10
570.
of
22

--- Page 12 ---

There
نہ
assel filing
/project
involved
SECRET
f staff officer
indicating what
or
Operations
the staff officer/asset was
in
Cumployer
Continue Love ffiar
Ctionshy Contract
REPRODUCTION.
PROHIBITED
PROHIB
agen
agla
agent.
вес
Source
F&Z
capacities
umpard people who..
controlled by CIA..
dasset may be the same.
и
is not neu'ly
always contrrules.
•provider of info
asset - may someone
who
my provide
info.
a
Service
☑
Name ck process - gescedure to learn what.
is known about
-involve
resulos
there is
201
file
au
ck
PROHIBITED
inte 201 file if
generally in sequence
ски
Name
opening of 201.
True id may be kind.out.
cine
wway & w/
Kent out of 201, I
it
nove?
Qe
SECRET
in cryptongue
6001752
c2

--- Page 13 ---

There is
SECRET
centralized filing sys by
true name, povedinayon,
fliving
-
called
a
fruce
REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED.
a
alipt;
ارش نامه از
201
its duel
REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED
SECRET
6861753
12 of
20

--- Page 14 ---

Fretar
201
SECRET
Subject
Countries
projects
Cexist for all
all projects that
CIA
it involved
in.
REPRODUCTION
Support
Finance
Logistics
PROMIBITED
71 be
Communication
-
Crypt file
tam bile, clothing, supplies.
sales chrono file
ables; microfilmed.
Security - security file; under privedenyor.
personnel - file.
Он
ہے
d
on plicants agency player.
for agents 2 file in office of security
Overt
で
bing
Covert
bisy dut, th of
No.
assignment,
investigation.
when he's
assignmenty
anything that Le das
يستجيجيني
projects liste
✓
MAC REPRODUCTION
Fome
ed
PROHIBITED
e
tyis
writing
fle.
can get
agent Pyyou they
psych profila
a
sec.
dispatch
Il staffers
it.
training agents, regui, secretaries, officer
los
ODP (ffice & data processing) - out boy and poten
CRET 0001754
13
2

--- Page 15 ---

SECRET
Betey Wolf
CTA
Briefing - January 26, 1978
Records Admin. Branch - DDA
ADA
1
RIA subsumed
wl
REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED
ISAS - Jufo. Systems Analysis Staff
1
•Records Admia. Branc
Info. Services Staff - only
000
Can be used for any level w/in any
design their own systems, providing they inform RAB so that
can monitor compliance.
"Family Tevels Collection":
Highly seanture
RODUCTION
from a record
Division, but
anyone
Day
info. tends to be diverted
Guidelines for headling & maintaining secret beet not.
for completing "bigot what" umplesis on limiting
bril
Alless
0001755
SECRET
PAGE 14 of
COPY NO.
2

--- Page 16 ---

SECRET
p.2
"Prescribed & Limited " Distribution (P&L): doesn't cover files but info, commun-
"Sleeper" hypo: Operation could have been so sensitive as to
Se kept net of filing, indexing system, particularly 10-15.
out
years ago...
1. May have then.
REPROSUCTION
even reid 201
201 #'s as
life
assigned by
of great offices; may hot lave
; were assigned by RID 10-15 yrs ago
Files were not designated "P&L", bed were "restricted" to confixed.
jurisdictions.
Cryptonyn assignment: part of ISS - Central Top Secret & Cryptic Reference
Staff
"Sleeper" would have to have a cryptonym for op. purposes.
list cryptonym w/201 # → no mame, not in STAR system
Bob Bartove - Basis for opening a 201
when did system
start?
:
Some sease.
file:
of continuing interest".
interest". within
a
Hould
a potential source, agent,
XGB official can be under the questioned or counter-intell. purpiers
Would he either to constatate several references in STAR system
REP
Could be opened in response to D
to some suspected KGB persons
Ex.: 1 credible source ref.
if
50глесе
201 could be opened in a matter of hrs., days or weeks
recognized info. of significance
on part. person
"Files content clicting" - supplemental listing from STAR sygetion
Abstract system of STAR: could find prior references to a part.
document
onetime in '60's
SECRET 1756
PAGE
COPY NO.
15
of

--- Page 17 ---

P.3
SECRET
Central Source Register
sizce
Ask thing Interagency Source Register: in effect probably
beg. of LIA
for details (of Intelligence Agencies) – doesn't include regular personnel - only
Oak Gring
Ref. Gugg
assets - would we based on true names - wouldn't contain sensitive sources
201 files would not necessity watain a
existed, it may
-specific dick
-photograph. Even if photo.
may be x-rif. to a
REFROLOCTION
PROHIBITza
-Shraphies collection in DAT
but may
Indiv. dicks will collect photos of persons of interest
Shed Contains photos of terrain, ate. Not particularly interested in group pics.,.ate.
histing of assets - would be maintained in a
separate desks.
waking.
mannu d
DAO would be only place where there would the access to this type
of leeting
By ε large, no. 201
*EDICTION
1 prior to employment EPT
there was an op. interest.
DOH Bequal Fersonnel File.
Opening does. of 201 fels would contain refs. to clearance paper (wied
De
would maintained in see. affice)
be converted & would
Emp. under deep cover Staff Agest - dis files would appear under
This preudonym.
Don't
open
201's on paudoyns,
pseudonyms, but could open one on cryptonyms.
6001757
ECRET
FACE 16 of 20
27% NO.

--- Page 18 ---

- p. 4
CRET
Caly 1 copy of a 201 file; may be a working field copy
Subject files:
Project files:
Policy & ment PRODUCTION
PROHIBITED
Project file: operational mgmt. record of a given project.
A. Administration
B. Support
1. Production
201. would have info. on asset involved in project; project file's info.
is on operation itself.
See Gregg Operational Detaile
7
Ruconnel fille
Central list of cryptoxyns - where they're registered - you ca
match the cryptonym with the true name. The more sensitive the
asset or operation the more
it will be to get to true name.
Hand file: Official into UICTION &
working papTED
Soft file:
soft file would be included in hard file.
of word value in
3. Project files: where are approval, decision-making records filed
contains: where worked; supervisors name; type of work dore; evaluations
Does not contain specific operations is which employee was involved.
0001756
SECRET
DAGE
12 of
20
No.

--- Page 19 ---

C
SECRET
-.p.5.
Employees.
14 lese officers - intelligence officers
batrect employees
agents may or may not HUN
from PROHIBITED present assets who are unider...
their control
Asset: someone
"they can get useful services, including
Source: Source of information
Ask Suzg PRQ: Bacie brog info.
Way of ordering available info.
Fundamental dos in an agentis 201 file.
Name check (= trace) process includes deck of following
STAR have.
I ravel files.
office of Security
Frominal fat RODUCTION
Also do name
& approvals RITED:
Negative AM/LASH Mame trace
Sheer click
list
SECRET
0001759
18 of
20

--- Page 20 ---

._._.p.6...
SECRET
George Fratas
Subject Filles : countries
201 files individuate quite mus
REP
Would be a matic
originating in ascotter
.Agent...
201
PROHIBITED/
ritise to maintain files on and likes operation
agency.
.
Office of Security
"
of Finance:
CI staff might have info.
Finance: acetys, vouchers, receipts; will have a cryptonym file
Logistice: support-autos, clotting, the necessary to ruin operations
Communications: cables, telegraphs.
Maintain a chrono. file
Cables are.
logged
les - on microfila
1 Security: Securite the number, date, station.
Started to eliminate
dual filing@mid-'60's
Ack AND
-
(overt)
? ORCHIB Under peevedonym if an agent.
agists
".
2 files each with the same #
Overt - true.name
tave name of an employee
Covert - pseudonym - listed in inder
Would an agent ever operate under a prevdonys
If it has pseudozym →→ he is in file.
Уми мане
brog. data, recults of bckgrd. cheek, security
nolations & assignments
(covert) Pseudonym: Contains everything the person did = list where
SECRET 160
02

--- Page 21 ---

SECRET
-p.7
he worked, what he did, itte
If an agent, it would have a POA for each project the agent
was involved in.
If a staff enslige it will only has a list of ssignments.
PROHIBITED
Medies: Medical histories on all staffers; or agents if they can get. it.
Psychological profiles
Training: Train agents, mgrs., seces., officers
Then all training centers
Office of Reta Processing: Put together programs used by computers
Personnel: applicants for agency employ.
all
(true name
• employees N
ADO has central mide BITED
X-refs.
true names, cryptoxyns,
psurdonyms & 201 numbers.
CECRET
6001761
20
