```markdown
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 10/1/1978

Agency Information
AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: 180-10073-10093
RECORD SERIES: NUMBERED FILES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 004876

Document Information
ORIGINATOR:
FROM: RUBY, SAMUEL
TO: RUBY, SAMUEL
TITLE:
RUBY, SAM
RUBY, JACK, BACKGROUND, ASSOCIATES AND RELATIVES
DATE: 01/24/1978
PAGES: 118
SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE: OTHER TEXTUAL
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 3 Redact
CURRENT STATUS: Released
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/25/1995
OPENING CRITERIA: W/cover letter. Box #:102.
COMMENTS:

Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW 88326
v9.1
Date: 10/1/1978
NW 88326 DocId:32245535 Page 1

16250 Bircher Ave.
Granada Hills, CA. 91344
Ms. Donella Purdy, Jr.
Jan. 24, 1978

004876
I have had Xerox copies made of my tax
returns for you the years 1967 to 1976.
I have looked in the various places where we
normally keep important papers and we could not find
copies of the returns for the years 1962 to 1966.
I have proved that we have moved them in the
disposal. If single copies are in
to another. We probably never
them and you are in need of them
any of your investigations I will
to you.
Since
Sincerely,
Samuel Ruby

NW 88326 DocId:32245535 Page 2

Form 5329 1976
Only This Side of Form is
Department of the Treasury Return for Individual
Internal Revenue Service Retirement Savings Arrangement Open to Public Inspection
(Under Sections 408 or 409 of the Internal Revenue Code) ▷ Attach to Form 1040.
If you have established a retirement savings arrangement you must complete Part I and Part II and attach this
form to your individual income tax return, Form 1040. In addition: (1) if you claim a deduction on your Form 1040
for contributions to your retirement savings arrangement, complete Part III; (2) if you have made contributions in
excess of your allowable limitation for this year or prior years, complete Part IV; (3) if you are not yet age 59½
when you receive a distribution from your retirement savings arrangement which is not due to a disability, a rollover
contribution to another plan or retirement savings arrangement, or the transfer of an amount to a former spouse
under a divorce-decree, you must complete Part V; (4) if you are 70½ or older on the last day of the year, see in-
structions to determine if you are required to complete Part VI.

Name SAMUEL D. RUBY
Address (Number and street) 16250 BIRCHER ST
City or town, State and ZIP code GRANADA HILLS CA
If you are not required to file a Form 1040 check here ☐
Part I Individual and Retirement Savings Information
1 Type of individual retirement savings arrangement:
(a) ☐ Individual retirement account
(b) ☐ Individual retirement annuity
(c) ☐ Individual retirement bonds
2 Were you during any part of the year an active participant in a qualified pension, profit sharing or stock bonus
plan, including a qualified Keogh (H.R. 10) plan, or were you covered under a section 403(b) annuity or custodial
account or under a government retirement plan other than the Social Security or Railroad Retirement Acts?
(Volunteer firemen and military reservists see specific instructions for line 2). ☐ Yes ☑ No
If "Yes," you are not allowed a deduction for your 1976 contributions to your individual retirement arrangement.
Under penalties of perjury, I declare that I have examined this return, including accompanying schedules and statements, and to the best of my
knowledge and belief it is true, correct, and complete. If prepared by a person other than the taxpayer, this declaration is based on all information
of which the preparer has any knowledge.
Your signature Date
Preparer's signature (other than taxpayer)
95-2941449
Preparer's identification number
(see General Instruction B)
Date
CH
Preparer's address and ZIP code 13717 VANOWEN ST VAN Nuys CA 91405
Form 5329
NW 88326 Docld:32245535 Page 3

Form 5329 (1976)
This Page Is Not Open to Public Inspection
Page 2
Part II
Attach Copy B of Form 5498 here ▷
Your Social Security Number 322-12-7997
3 If filed by surviving spouse or beneficiary of an individual who created this retirement savings arrangement check here ▷ ☐
and enter name and social security number of individual for whom the arrangement was established
4 Indicate your age as of the end of the year (If you checked item 3 do not complete this item):
(a) ☐ Under age 59½
(b) ☐ Age 59½ to 70½
(c) ☑ Over age 70½ (if you check item (c) complete Part VI below)
5 (a) If, during the year, you received a distribution of your entire account from a qualified pension, profit-
sharing or stock bonus plan, because either (i) you terminated employment or (ii) your employer
terminated the plan, and you transferred (rolled over) such distribution to your arrangement, check here ▷ ☐
(b) If you checked (a) did you transfer the entire amount of the distribution (less any amounts you con-
tributed to the qualified plan-see instructions) to your arrangement within 60 days of receipt of such
distribution (or 12/31/76 if (a)(ii) applies and you received such distribution prior to 11/2/76)? . . ☐ Yes ☐ No
(c) If (b) was "Yes," complete lines (i) through (iii) below:
Month Day Year
(i) Date of transfer to arrangement
(ii) Date distribution was made to you from the plan
(iii) Name of trustee or insurance company to which the transfer was made (If bonds were purchased state "Bonds") ►
(d) (i) If within one taxable year, you received a distribution of your entire account from your employer's qualified pension,
profit-sharing or stock bonus plan because the plan was terminated by your employer did you:
(A) receive such amount on or after July 4, 1974 but prior to January 1, 1976,
(B) transfer such amount, reduced by the amount of the income tax paid on the distribution on
your 1974 or 1975 income tax return, to an arrangement and
(C) file a claim for refund of such tax paid? (Check "Yes" only if (A), (B) and (C) ALL apply.) ☐ Yes ☐ No
(ii) If (d)(i) is "Yes," and you have received such refund or credit for such tax paid enter: Month Day Year
(A) Date refund or credit received
(B) Date refund or amount of credit was contributed to your retirement savings arrangement
Note: See Definition C in the Instructions concerning rollover contributions.
6 If, during the year, you transferred any funds from one retirement savings arrangement to another retire- Month Day Year
ment savings arrangement, enter the date of transfer here
Caution: Such a transfer may be a taxable distribution.
7 If, during the tax year covered by this form, you have entered into a prohibited transaction under section 4975 or borrowed any amount from
your retirement savings arrangement or pledged any part of your arrangement as security for a loan, check here ☐
Note: See instructions for the tax consequences of such transactions.
Part III Computation of Allowable Deduction
(If you have entered into a prohibited transaction under section 4975, do not complete Part III or Part
IV for the retirement savings arrangement with which you entered into such prohibited transaction.)
8 Wages, tips and other compensation from Form 1040 (if a joint return do not include compensation of spouse)
(See definition B in the instructions for the meaning of compensation.)
9 15% of line 8 or $1,500, whichever is lesser (if you are 70½ or over or answered "Yes" to line 2, enter zero)
10 Amount paid by you or on your behalf under all your retirement savings arrangements (do not include any
amounts which were considered as "rollover contributions," see lines 5 and 6, or the purchase price of any
individual retirement bonds redeemed within 12 months of their date of purchase (see instructions) or life
insurance portion of your endowment premium as reported on Form 5498 box 6)
11 Allowable deduction, lesser of line 9 or line 10 (enter here and on Form 1040, line 40a)
Part IV Tax on Excess Contributions
12 Tax on excess contributions (see Part IV of the Specific Instructions if Part III, line 10 exceeds line 11). Enter
tax from worksheet here and on Form 1040, line 61
Part V Tax on Premature Distributions
13 Tax on premature distributions (see Part V of the Specific Instructions if you received a distribution from
your retirement savings arrangement before you have attained age 59½). Enter tax from worksheet here and
on Form 1040, line 57
Part VI Tax on Undistributed Retirement Accounts and Annuities
(See Instructions before completing this Part.)
14 Tax based on current year distribution method, see worksheet in Instructions
15 Tax based on aggregate distribution methods, see worksheet in Instructions
16 Tax due, lesser of line 14 or 15, enter here and on Form 1040, in your total for line 62. On the dotted line to
the left of the line 62 entry space write "4974 tax," and show the amount
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1976-0-218-176
E.I. 13-2687299
NW 88326 Docld:32245535 Page 4

1040
Department of the Treasury-Internal Revenue Service
U.S. Individual Income Tax Return
For the year January 1-December 31, 1976, or other taxable year beginning
Please print or type
Name (If joint return, give first names and initials of both)
SAMUEL & PHYLLIS
Present home address (Number and street, including apartment number, or rural route)
16250 BIRCHER ST
City, town or post office, State and ZIP code
GRANADA HILLS CA
Filing Status
(check only ONE box)
1 ☐ Single
2 ☑ Married filing joint return (even if only one had income)
3 ☐ Married filing separately. If spouse is also filing give
spouse's social security number in designated space above
and enter full
name here ►
4 ☐ Unmarried Head of Household. See page 7 of instructions
to see if
you qualify ►
5 ☐ Qualifying widow(er). with dependent child (Year
spouse died 19
7 Other dependents:
(a) Name
). See page 7 of Instructions.
(b) Relationship
1976, ending
Last name
RUBY
Exemptions
6a Regular
b First names of your dependent children who
lived with you
ELISA
THOMAS
c Number of other dependents (from line 7)
d Total (add lines 6a, b, and c)
e Age 65 or older.
Yourself
Spouse
Blind.
Yourself
Spouse
f TOTAL (add lines 6d and e)
8 Presidential Election
Campaign Fund .
(c) Months lived in your
home. If born or died
during year, write B or D.
Do you wish to designate $1 of your taxes for this fund?
If joint return, does your spouse wish to designate $1?
9 Wages, salaries, tips, and other employee compensation
10a Dividends (See pages 9 and 16 of Instructions) $...
(If gross dividends and other distributions are over $400, list in Part 1 of Schedule B.)
11 Interest income.
If $400 or less, enter total without listing in Schedule B
If over $400, enter total and list in Part II of Schedule B
12 Income other than wages, dividends, and interest (from line 37)
13 Total (add lines 9, 10c, 11 and 12)
14 Adjustments to income (such as moving expense, etc. from line 42)
15a Subtract line 14 from line 13
b Disability income exclusion (sick pay) (attach Form 2440)
c Adjusted gross income. Subtract line 15b from line 15a, then complete Part III on back.
(If less than $8,000, see page 2 of Instructions on "Earned Income Credit.")
16 Tax, check if from:
Tax Table
Schedule G
Tax Rate Schedule X, Y or Z
Form 2555
Schedule D
OR
Form 4726
17a Multiply $35.00 by the number of exemptions on line 6d
17a
17b
Enter
larger
of a
18
19
b Enter 2% of line 47 but not more than $180 ($90 if box 3 is checked)
Balance. Subtract line 17c from line 16 and enter difference (but not less than zero)
Credits (from line 54)
20 Balance. Subtract line 19 from line 18 and enter difference (but not less than zero)
21 Other taxes (from line 62)
22 Total (add lines 20 and 21)
Please attach Check or Money Order here
Tax, Payments and Credits
Please attach Copy B of Forms W-2 here
Due or Refund
Sign
here
23a Total Federal income tax withheld.
(attach Forms W-2 or W-2P to front)
b 1976 estimated tax payments
c Earned income credit.
d Amount paid with Form 4868
e Other payments (from line 66)
24 TOTAL (add lines 23a through e)
25 If line 22 is larger than line 24, enter BALANCE DUE IRS
(Check here ☐, if Form 2210 or Form 2210F is attached. See page 10 of instructions.)
26 If line 24 is larger than line 22, enter amount OVERPAID
27 Amount of line 26 to be REFUNDED TO YOU
28 Amount of line 26 to be credited on 1977 estimated tax
Under penalties of perjury, I declare that I have examined this return, including accompanying schedules and statements, and to the best of my knowledge and belief it
is true, correct, and complete. Declaration of preparer (other than taxpayer) is based on all information of which preparer has any knowledge.
Your signature
Date
Preparer's signature (and employer's name, if any)
Spouse's signature (if filing jointly, BOTH must sign even if only one had income)
Identifying Number (see instructions)
Date
Address (and ZIP code)
NW 88326 Docld:32245535 Page 5
218-052-2
19
Your social security number
322127997
For Privacy Act Notification,
see page 5 of Instructions.
Spouse's social security no.
349181420
Occu- Yours S/E
pation Spouse's
☐ Yourself ☑ Spouse Enter number of
boxes checked ►
b First names of your dependent children who
lived with you
ELISA
THOMAS
Enter
number
c Number of other dependents (from line 7)
d Total (add lines 6a, b, and c)
e Age 65 or older.
☐ Yourself ☐ Spouse
Blind.
☐ Yourself ☐ Spouse
f TOTAL (add lines 6d and e)
8 Do you wish to designate $1 of your taxes for this fund?
If joint return, does your spouse wish to designate $1?
(attach Forms W-2. If unavail-
able, see page 6 of Instructions.)
10b less exclusion.
Balance
(If gross dividends and other distributions are over $400, list in Part 1 of Schedule B.)
11 Interest income.
(If over $400, enter total and list in Part II of Schedule B)
If $400 or less, enter total without listing in Schedule B
12 Income other than wages, dividends, and interest (from line 37)
13 Total (add lines 9, 10c, 11 and 12)
14 Adjustments to income (such as moving expense, etc. from line 42)
15a Subtract line 14 from line 13
b Disability income exclusion (sick pay) (attach Form 2440)
c Adjusted gross income. Subtract line 15b from line 15a, then complete Part III on back.
(If less than $8,000, see page 2 of Instructions on "Earned Income Credit.")
16 Tax, check if from:
Tax Table
Schedule G
Tax Rate Schedule X, Y or Z
Form 2555
Schedule D
OR
Form 4726
17a Multiply $35.00 by the number of exemptions on line 6d
Enter
larger
of a
17b Enter 2% of line 47 but not more than $180 ($90 if box 3 is checked)
17c
Balance. Subtract line 17c from line 16 and enter difference (but not less than zero)
Credits (from line 54)
Balance. Subtract line 19 from line 18 and enter difference (but not less than zero)
Other taxes (from line 62)
Total (add lines 20 and 21)
23a Total Federal income tax withheld.
(include amount allowed as
1976 estimated tax payments
credit from 1975 return)
c Earned income credit.
d Amount paid with Form 4868
e Other payments (from line 66)
24 TOTAL (add lines 23a through e)
25 If line 22 is larger than line 24, enter BALANCE DUE IRS
(Check here ☐, if Form 2210 or Form 2210F is attached. See page 10 of instructions.)
26 If line 24 is larger than line 22, enter amount OVERPAID
27 Amount of line 26 to be REFUNDED TO YOU
28 Amount of line 26 to be credited on 1977 estimated tax
☐ Yes ☐ No
☐ Yes ☐ No
9
10c
11
12
13
14
15a
15b
15c
16
17c
18
19
20
21
22
23a
23b
23c
23d
23e
24
25
26
27
28
Note: If you check the "Yes"
box(es) it will not increase your
tax or reduce your refund.
2546
7741
7741
7741
(If box on line 3 is checked
see page 10 of Instructions)
Pay amount on line 25 in
full with this return. Write
social security number on
check or money order and
make payable to Internal
Revenue Service.
Under penalties of perjury, I declare that I have examined this return, including accompanying schedules and statements, and to the best of my knowledge and belief it is
true, correct, and complete. Declaration of preparer (other than taxpayer) is based on all information of which preparer has any knowledge.
NW 88326 Docld:32245535 Page 5
218-052-2

--- Page 79 ---

Form 1040 (1976)
Part Income other than Wages, Dividends and Interest
29 Business income or (loss) (attach Schedule C)
30a Net gain or (loss) from sale or exchange of capital assets (attach Schedule D)
b 50% of capital gain distributions (not reported on Schedule D-see page 10 of Instructions)
31 Net gain or (loss) from Supplemental Schedule of Gains and Losses (attach Form 4797)
32a Pensions, annuities, rents, royalties, partnerships, estates or trusts, etc. (attach Schedule E)
b Fully taxable pensions and annuities (not reported on Schedule E-see page 10 of Instructions)
33 Farm income or (loss) (attach Schedule F)
34 State income tax refunds
35 Alimony received
36 Other (state nature and source-see page 11 of Instructions)
37 Total (add lines 29 through 36). Enter here and on line 12
Part IV Tax Computation
38 Moving expense (attach Form 3903)
39 Employee business expense (attach Form 2106)
40a Payments to an individual retirement arrangement from attached Form 5329, Part III
b Payments to a Keogh (H.R. 10) retirement plan
41 Forfeited interest penalty for premature withdrawal (see page 12 of Instructions)
42 Total (add lines 38 through 41). Enter here and on line 14
43 Adjusted gross income (from line 15c). If you have unearned income and can be claimed as a
dependent on your parent's return, check here ☐ and see page 9 of Instructions
44a If you itemize deductions, check here ☐, and enter total from Schedule A, line 40, and attach Schedule A
b Standard deduction-If you do not itemize deductions, check here ☐, and:
If you checked
the box on
line 2 or 5, enter the greater of $2,100 OR 16% of line 43-but not more than $2,800
If you checked 1 or 4, enter the greater of $1,700 OR 16% of line 43-but not more than $2,400
line 3, enter the greater of $1,050 OR 16% of line 43-but not more than $1,400
45 Subtract line 44 from line 43 and enter difference (but not less than zero)
46 Multiply total number of exemptions claimed on line 6f by $750
47 Taxable income. Subtract line 46 from line 45 and enter difference (but not less than zero)
If line 47 is $20,000 or less and you did not average your income on Schedule G, or figure your tax on Form 2555, Exemption of
your tax in Tax Table. Enter tax on line 16 and check appropriate box.
If line 47 is more than $20,000, figure your tax on the amount on line 47 by using Tax Rate Schedule X, Y, Z, or if applicable, the
alternative tax from Schedule D, income averaging from Schedule G, tax from Form 2555 or maximum tax from Form 4726. Enter tax on line 16 and check appropriate box.
Part V Credits
48 Credit for the elderly (attach Schedules R & RP)
49 Credit for child care expenses (attach Form 2441)
50 Investment credit (attach Form 3468)
51 Foreign tax credit (attach Form 1116)
52 Contributions to candidates for public office credit (see page 12 of Instructions)
53 Work Incentive (WIN) Credit (attach Form 4874)
54 Total (add lines 48 through 53). Enter here and on line 19
Part VI Other Taxes
55 Tax from recomputing prior-year investment credit (attach Form 4255)
56 Minimum tax. Check here ☐, and attach Form 4625
57 Tax on premature distributions from attached Form 5329, Part V
58 Self-employment tax (attach Schedule SE)
59 Social security tax on tip income not reported to employer (attach Form 4137)
60 Uncollected employee social security tax on tips (from Forms W-2)
61 Excess contribution tax from attached Form 5329, Part IV
62 Total (add lines 55 through 61). Enter here and on line 21
Part VII Other Payments
63 Excess FICA, RRTA, or FICA/RRTA tax withheld (two or more employers-see page 13 of Instructions)
64 Credit for Federal tax on special fuels, nonhighway gasoline and lubricating oil (attach Form 4136)
65 Credit from a Regulated Investment Company (attach Form 2439)
66 Total (add lines 63 through 65). Enter here and on line 23e
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1976-0-218-052
NW 88326 Docld:32245535 Page 6
29
30a
30b
31
32a
32b
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40a
40b
41
42
43
44a
44b
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
218-052-2
3546
1000
2546
5686

--- Page 80 ---

Schedules A&B-Itemized Deductions AND
(Form 1040)
Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service
Name(s) as shown on Form 1040
S+P. Ruby
Schedule A-Itemized Deductions (Schedule B on back)
Medical and Dental Expenses (not compensated by insurance
or otherwise) (See page 13 of Instructions.)
1 One half (but not more than $150) of in-
surance premiums for medical care. (Be
sure to include in line 10 below)
2 Medicine and drugs
3 Enter 1% of line 15c, Form 1040
4 Subtract line 3 from line 2. Enter differ-
ence (if less than zero, enter zero)
5 Enter balance of insurance premiums for
medical care not entered on line 1
6 Enter other medical and dental expenses:
a Doctors, dentists, nurses, etc.
b Hospitals
c Other (itemize-include hearing aids,
dentures, eyeglasses, transportation,
etc.) ▷
1976
Your social security number
322127997
Contributions (See page 15 of Instructions for examples.)
21 a Cash contributions for which you have
receipts, cancelled checks or other
written evidence
b Other cash contributions. List donees
and amounts. D
22 Other than cash (see page 15 of instruc-
tions for required statement)
23 Carryover from prior years
24 Total contributions (add lines 21a through
23). Enter here and on line 37
Casualty or Theft Loss(es) (See page 15 of Instructions.)
Note: If you had more than one loss, omit lines 25 through 28
and see page 15 of Instructions for guidance.
25 Loss before insurance reimbursement
26 Insurance reimbursement
27 Subtract line 26 from line 25. Enter dif-
ference (if less than zero, enter zero)
28 Enter $100 or amount on line 27, which-
ever is smaller
29 Casualty or theft loss (subtract line 28
from line 27). Enter here and on line 38
Miscellaneous Deductions (See page 15 of Instructions.)
30 Alimony paid
31 Union dues .
32 Other (itemize) D
7 Total (add lines 4 through 6c)
8 Enter 3% of line 15c, Form 1040
9 Subtract line 8 from line 7 (if less than
zero, enter zero)
10 Total (add lines 1 and 9). Enter here and
on line 34
Taxes (See page 13 of Instructions.)
11 State and local income
12 Real estate .
13 State and local gasoline (see gas tax tables)
14 General sales (see sales tax tables)
15 Personal property
16 Other (itemize) D
17 Total (add lines 11 through 16). Enter
here and on line 35
Interest Expense (See page 14 of Instructions.)
18 Home mortgage
19 Other (itemize) D
20 Total (add lines 18 and 19). Enter here
and on line 36
33 Total (add lines 30 through 32). Enter
here and on line 39
Summary of Itemized Deductions
34 Total medical and dental-line 10
35 Total taxes-line 17
36 Total interest-line 20
37 Total contributions-line 24
38 Casualty or theft loss(es)-line 29
39 Total miscellaneous-line 33
40 Total deductions (add lines 34 through
39). Enter here and on Form 1040, line
44
NW 88326 Docld:32245535 Page 79
218-054-1

--- Page 81 ---

SCHEDULE C Profit or (Loss) From Business or Profession
Form 1040 (Sole Proprietorship)
(Form of the » son . Partnerships, Joint Ventures, etc., Must File Form 1065. soe
Internal Revenue Service » Attach to Form 1040. » See Instructions for Schedule C (Form 1040). .

Name as shown on Form toa

= MAE A HYL L. fa$

A Principal business activity (see sa C Inst ctions) id
B Business name » [4/0 PLEY
D Business address (number and stre

City, State and ZIP code »..
E Indicate method of accountin

Social security number

2. pe!

; Product ag Ot fo § + Coe . ee
20 identitication number >. 9S.

ei
i F Were you required to file Form W-3 or Form 1096 for 19752 (see Schedule C Instructions) .
“ If “Yes,” where filed »..

Q G Was an Employer's Quarterly Federal Tax Return, Form 941, filed for this business for any quarter in 1975? | fee oo woe
* H Method of inventory valuation » ‘ ‘ Was there any substantial change in
the manner of determining quantitie: belween the “openi attach explanation) ©
1 Gross receipts or sales $.. .. Less: returns and allowances $...
£ 2 Less: Cost of woods sold and/or operations (Schedule C-1, line 8)
. sg 3 Gross profit fone :
: = 4. Other income (attach schedule) 2. 2.
* 5 Total income (add fines 3 and 4)
6 Depreciation (explain in Schedule C-3) © 6 ww ee ee
° 7 Taxes on business and business property (explain in Schedule C2)... 6. we ee
8 Rent on business property 2... ee ee ee
9 Repairs (explain in Schedule C-2) . ... . foe . toe eee
10 Salaries and wages not inclided on line 3, Schedule C-1 (exclude a any paid to yourself) :
i ll Insurance. 6 -
12 Legal and professional fees
13 Commissions . fee
14 Amortization (attach statement) . eo ee
15 (a) Pension and profit-sharing plans (see Schedule c instructions)
3 (b) Employee benefit programs (see Schedule C Instructions)
. Fa 16 Interest on business indebtedness
; & 17 Bad debts arising from sales or services
3 | 18 Depletion. . . . :
3 19 Other business expenses (specify):
(a) ..
- : (b) ...
: (ce) ..
(d)
(e) ..
(f) ..
. (e) ..
(b) ...

| (i) .
“ 0)

(k) Total other bu ss expenses (add lines 19(a) through 190) - 19(k) ee
20 Total deductions (add lines 6 through 19(k)) : OT A. :

21 Net profit or (loss) (subtract line 20 frorm line 5). Enter here and on Form 1040, line 28. ALSO .
enter on Schedule SE, line 5(a)- -- 21 7 S Ss 7 ;

SCHEDULE C-1.—Cost of Goods Sold and/or Operations (See “Schedule c Instructions for Line 2)-

1 Inventory at beginning of year (if different from last year’s closing inventory, altach explanation) .  . we ceccceeecneeeeeeeee

‘ 2 Purchases $............----------. Less: cost of items withdrawn for personal use $ Balance m2)
i 3 Cost of labor (do not include salary paid to yourself) ©... 6 + ee ee es
4 Materials and supplies 2 2. 1 ee eee oe el
5 Other costs (attach schedule) 2. 6 we ee
. 6 Total of lines 1 through © we ef
vy 7 Less: Inventory atendof year . . . , ve Co ee
a . 8 Cost of goods sold and/or operations. Enter here and on 1 line 2 above

16—82517-2

-aNW 88326 Docid:32245535 Page 30

--- Page 82 ---

Schedule C (Form 1040) 1975 Page 2
SCHEDULE C-2.-Explanation of Lines 7 and 9 , :
Line No. Explanation ; Amount - Line No. Explanation + Amount

$ $

Note: t ones is
* , Life System for as:
Class Life System).

dd by using the Class Lite (ADR) System for assets placed in service after December 31, 1970, or the Guideline Class
laced in service before January 1, 1971, you must file Form. 4832 (