180-10144-10133 [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

Box 29
Folder 50
SECRET

Palmer
8/2/78

Victor Paneque.

1 pkg loose documents
pkg DCD documents
Volume CI/OA documents
Volume - DDO documents.
DDO Volume.

Reportedly 201-286 382
an agent of DIER
11111456

Undated document giving Paneque's background political activity. All 1960 information.

RETURN TO CIA

On arrival in U.S. stayed with Irlando Bosch, suspected Castro agent.
Associated with leader of MRR "Camilo Cienfueges."
Carlos Rodriguez Castor, suspected Castro plant in U.S.
Reportedly spent 2 hrs with Paul Castro before defecting.
Major Sanjenis, former Chief G-2, says Paneque of GOC agent
Organization Autentica reporting to State Dept. that Paneque is a Castro plant
00-A 3.168.667 Reports Paneque one of two DIER plants at Uni of Havana & students planning to assassinate him.
Cuban businessman says Paneque is G-2 plant.
CIA reported DFBI that subject has been reported

Background Use Only.
Do Not Reproduce.
10144-10133
0003442

---

Palmer
8/2/78
SECRET

April 29, 1959 Classified message to Director from Havana re: purge of Cuban Armed Forces. Among those Raul Castro has begun a major purge of Cuban Armed Forces. Among those to be eliminated are Victor Paneque, aka "Diego"

18 Oct. 1960
11111457
Conversation with Major Vector M. Paneque (Commadante Diego, 6 October at 900).

When Paneque arrived in Miami, he got together with Alianza de Liberacion through Dr. Luis Conte Aguero. He could not get immediate help from this group, so resigned. Also said he had tried to get help from U.S. govt. but unsuccessful.

Paneque is convinced that the only thing needed to overthrow Castro is arms & supplies. Has a plane which he intends to fly into Cuba with cargo of arms.

Author of memo recommends that CIA offer assistance to Paneque independent of all other organizations. He seems to be capable of becoming an important factor in the future.

Nov. 2, 1960 Cable to Director from Miami
Paneque & 8 men leaving for Cuba night of 1 Nov on 40 foot yacht, Trudy Lou Craft purchased by Orlando Bosch.
6063643
SECRET

---

DIER - Departamento Investigativo Del Ejercito Revolucionario

14 Dec. 1960

Palmer
8/2/78
SECRET

Cable to Director from Havana IN 16758
Paneque reportedly under arrest at Cabana Prison
his wife at Women's prison, on charges of aiding Excombray fighters.

Jan 13, 1961
Cable to Bell from Guatemala City 11111458 IN 1688
Alexander Rourke gives information that Thank Fiorini & Orlando Bosch represent Paneque

Fiorini & Bosh recruiting & equiping force for assault on Cuba 18 Jan. Receiving financial aid from anti Communist International Association

14 March 1962
Dispatch, D. Chief, Task Force W from Cos/WAVE
Paneque organized a Hunger Strike by Cuban exiles & held a rally March 1962. Purpose was to show JFK that Cubans are willing to die in exile if their right to defend Cuba from Communism is negated. motto of strike is "Hunger or War".
6563444

PRQ part 1 - July 4, 1964
Aliases: Diego
Rene Ricardo (Clandestine activity)

---

Palmer
8/2/78
Paneque
SECRET

Request for Information & Review 5 Nov. 1964
POA granted 13 Nov 1964
8808.1964
Report of Covert assessment 11111459
from assessment & Evaluation Staff, Medical Staff
Paneque one of 6 members of the "radop" trainees (radio operators) given psychological assessments in Aug 1964, Paneque is oldest, (DOB 18 Sept 1920) & least intelligent, most experienced of group. Likely he would try to dominate the group because of his fact experience. His shortcomings seem to outweigh his assets.

17 Nov 1964 Classified message 1622582
Paneque assigned AMRUG-5.

19 Dec. 1964
Memorandum of Oral Commitment
Paneque engaged under oral contract on Dec 1964.
To receive $275.28 per month following completion of satisfactory service.
Will receive raise of $50 per month on completion of training.
$750 raise upon infiltration (Possibly an infiltration of Oriente Province)
0503445

See item 13

---

Palmer
8/2/78
Paneque
SECRET

Oct 1965
Dispatch from Cos/JMWAVE
Paneque terminated as of 31 Oct 1965. agent Service record recommends him for re-use on basis of his knowledge of internal contacts in Northern Oriente

15 Sept 1977. [To Managua]
16-22
11111460
095686

Paneque participated in Cuban exile activities in New York area in 1962 and later registered in ISR & Dept of army in August 1962 (Dropped without prejudice 18 Nov 1963.) In 1964 Panque was member of MDC infiltration team. Recruited by Miami station as radio operator / infiltree and favorably swirled on 5 August 1964.

13 Nov 1964. POA granted
Paid $275 monthly beginning 1 Sep 1964. Trained by Cuban agents in Miami but never used operationally. Amicably terminated Oct 1965 & recommended for re-use.

Reported in 1969 as conducting clandestine trips inside Cuba on behalf of Junta militar de Cuba.

8- FBI agency deletions
Dept of army. sealed envelopes.
0563446

---

Palmer 8/2/78
SECRET
Volume CI/OA
no notes necessary
Victor Manuel Paneque Batista - C-286382

Deletions
FBI sealed envelope.
report 3 Nov 1960 and Office of Security polygraph Interview
Victor Paneque
11111461

DCD Documents.
Loose Documents

17 Feb. 1972
no notes
Victor Paneque.
Subject: Identification of PCC, DSE, UIC members, etc.
page 3 - Item 9: Information acquired through interrogation of CC - 4993, Jacinto BAEZ Jaliano, Cuban refugee & former resident Rogla, Havana Province, who left Cuba 22 Nov 1971. Subsource Worked for Superphoshates Enterprise from 1950-1968.
Victor Manuel Paneque employed until 1968 as laboratory Chief of Superphosphates, is a member of the PCC, militia, & Defence Committee (CDR). He is an agronomist former director of Agronomy, Havana University. He is described as Caucasian, 5'2" tall, weight about 165 lbs, born 1927-32, black hair, dark-colored eyes.

School (note)
Victor Paneque Batista born 1920. is 5'6" brown hair, blue eyes.
6003447
SECRET
