1180-10145-10446

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Folder 7 Back Ground

SECRET

In April 1976, The Senate Select Committee to study governmental operations with respect to intelligence activities (SSC) published their Final Report (B) which in essence faulted the CIA for its conduct of and conclusions in forming opinions of the plots against Fidel Castro.

In its consideration of informing the Warren Commission of the possible conspiracy plots against the revolutionary, and detailed its patterns in the life of its per Fidel Castro, the initial estimate is on pages 6-7 of Interim Report, but one paragraph neatly sums up their position.

Senior CIA officials who should have realized that their assets were not utilizing its full capability to investigate Oswald and anti-Castro connections. They should have analyzed that CIA operations against Cuba, particularly persons involving the assassination of Castro, needed to be considered in the investigations. Yet, they used their subordinates to investigate, not telling them of these vital facts. These officials, whom the Warren Commission relied upon for expertise, had no face of a foreign conspiracy.

Stung by the Senate criticism and the accusations that occasionally appeared in the media, the CIA prepared a comprehensive report in 1977 designed to answer, at least within the Agency, the critical questions posited in the SSC Final Report. However, the 1977 CIA's Report tacitly recognizes the inadequacy of the CIA of the Warren Commission's quest for relevant information. ["Relevancy" is of course the "keyword" upon which both the Senate and Agency each base their position on possible plots.] On page 10 of the Agency Conclusions, the 1977 Report acknowledges that: "While one can understand today what was the effect of limiting the inquiry to injury to avenue normal lines of investigation; it would have served to reinforce the credibility of its efforts had it for a broader view of the matter. CIA could have considered in specific terms what most saw in general terms the possibility of Soviet or Cuban involvement because of tensions of the time. The Agency should have taken broader initiatives, then, as well."

It is not the purpose of this analysis to detail and the conflicting viewpoints of the SSC and CIA with regard to the significance of the anti-Castro attempts and to resolve the controversy as to importance. Rather, this paper seeks instead to present the operative review of all the facts, drawn for a variety of sources organized around CIA's involvement or potential involvement in CIA plots against Cuba 1961-63. Certain inferences and conclusions will then be drawn upon the nature, scope, and motivation of the syndicates' participants in the operation.

SECRET

Involvement of CIA Plots to Ft. Castro

The genesis of the utilization of the United States criminal syndicate to assassinate Castro is the 1967 Inspector General's Report on an account during a conversation between the Deputy Director of Plans, Richard Bissell, and the Director of the Office of Security, Colonel Sheffield Edwards. [1967 IG Rpt. p. -; Interim Rpt p 74].

Bissell assigned the task of locating the right people to "eliminate or mute" Castro to James "Big Jim" O'Connell, who was the chief of the Support Division of the Office of Security. Both men agreed that Robert A. Maheu, who had been privately involved in reviewing by the Agency sensitive covert operations, would be contacted to cut the sound. [Maheu's CIA history and ship to are detailed on of 74-75, Interim Report].

Although accounts differ as to who initially brought up John Roselli's name for consideration, there was a meeting between Maheu and Rosselli at the Plaza Hotel near September 1960. [Interim Report #1 25-3].

[Comment: Maheu seemed the logical person to have thought of and contacted Rosselli for several reasons. In an office of security memo to the DCD dated 19 November 1970 which is the Maheu operation, paragraph 5 states that "Mr. Maheu advised that he had met one John Rosselli on several occasions while visiting Las Vegas. He met him casually through other clients, but was given to understand that he was a high ranking member of the syndicate and controlled all the slot making machines on the strip! It was in fact a member of the class. Maheu reasoned that, if Bissell approved, he undoubtedly had connections leading into the criminal element.

Confirmation of Maheu's Rosselli contact is found in Rosselli's FBI file and in a decrypted telephone call in 1959. [See Rosselli from to Rosselli dates walk-up]. Maheu and Rosselli's trial control is test segment no 195. Hunt Hansjum, editor of the agent quotes.

Rosselli, although initially skeptical at first, agreed to a meeting in DC for command to discuss further details [Interim Report p76; offer of security memo from Morgan file, dated 19 Nov. 1970]. Although the Interim Report places the meeting at the Plaza Hotel on 14 September 1960, Rosselli recalled the discussions took place after Castro's visit. The visit began in September 18, 1960.

[Comment: Tony del gorgtomy at the time by Castro's visit, but it is only that he was in contact with Rosselli at this time or I testing of devan that his visit had an assassination motivation. According to a 19 Nov. 1970 minute to the DCI, it was at this September meeting in New York, that Rosselli "agreed to introduce him maken to a friend, "Sam Gold," who knew the Cuban crowd!

Comment: the timing of the introduction of (Gold) and Trafficante ("Joe") is important to the analysis of the "free" role of the mat in the Castro assassination plots. Bundy

According to the 1967 I.G. Report, the week of 25 September 1960 was the time of the initial expense. [1967 I.G. Report, p18].

In contrast, the SSC Interim Report at p. 76, does not believe the initial expense "cutting prior to October 18." (p761) because of inflecting testimony evidence between the 1967 I.G. September date and Maheu's Senate testimony which set the infected in November 1960 to a compromise, the Interim Report reasoned that because had been introduced to the "Joe" prior to folie it became the Las Vegas wire 30, 1960; and (2) DDP B had received an FBI memo dated 18 October 1960 which revealed, an FBI FLSUR inquiry broncand as discussed his involvement in an assassination plat against Castro FMD minw, dated it Oct 1960 for Howa Bissell. Interim Report, phat

[Comment: Each the dual reasons listed in the Interim Report on 77 are subject to critical analysis which will be dealt with significantly is the below]

Comment: Although the 1967 I.G. Report said that "Maheu pointed out "Gold" to O'Connell from a distance but O'Connell never met either "Gold" of Joe", the Interim Report disputes this observation by appointment quoting from Senate testimony and stating that "the support Chief, who was using the home "Jon Olds," said he had met "Sam" and Joe, once and then my higgy EO.C.5/30/75, pp 26-29; catalysts?.

Comment: Conflicts appear ahora of several minor points such as the September 1960 meeting in NY and Miami. For instruction: 1) Did Rosselli mam from the begon that the pan was CPA? opera a) O'Connell stated that ma fold Rosselli that they were representing international business intents was Rosselli testified that maken fold her. that coded was (Interim Repto 70. Abo, fototemp26 indle that Rosselli told about 3 weeks after the New York meeting" such is dury the mani involvement of fr I am not bidding, I know that " Wat your work for Who

The importance of Rosselli's response is that it is doubtful if brain and Trafficante could have been enlisted unless they could be sure of government protection. This theme will be developed more fully below. Rosselli "that he was an agent of inne Rosselli told his Cuban contact. bur intents of Wall Street that had.. nickel infurists and properties wound Cuba(Rosselli 4/24/75 pp. 9117. Cf. Jack Andean column 17, 1971, which stated ? What ④Could the plot against Castro have backfired gunsten Kennedy?

None of the and ssonator teams, however, had duit b of the CIA involvement. The CIA instigator had represented themselves as oilmen seeking revenge against Castro for his seizure of bil holdings Tof indusent source for this article were well Resell and William tiny, who was not juny to the t as Phose I, it is another of serious discrepancy.

The CIA, senate, and non sus which all purport to defend in you degrees, upon, Rosselli 3) the alleged # "Surjuss mahin and 'coun on to the paidentifier of "Sambold" and "e" is al suspect. First, although if possible that the Senate commit looked the Mani nem Staff Sunday spment (which d moluded jutturce of thigh grilly and significance a ty showing mahu and the nature of the people with whom phy week dealing it is a rel lay matter for reserch Prud Magazine for the month of It would ind That 'coined and a well, looking for incest facto reason for contency operation after the introduction t the of fove to the top mativi in the Ame with station. his discony were u up O'Connell testified that was after" we to our ear in it" which is difficult to fathom since the operation was in the imo stage and n pille per defended a until privat much 1941 Water He reason, the Senate staff inserts it could not finit the P The principale in c The operation as to the ferm Reger R77.Ft I als disagree roles which wirk be played bf with "Gold" and foe" in Blatte the pre- Bay of Pigs phase of the duration. Although Make described francora as playing a "hey "robl

SECRET:

7/29/75, p.34) and discussed "his job as "to locate come in cartun entourage new coll accomplish the unaton, Rissed down played visionar part to that of a "ba "Man & Rosselli 6/24/25/815) f the tu senite гр. ८ Whether Rossell received a mug - from brances murder four days before Rossellis Senate appearance is open for question J. Rosselli's characters of bian role contrast to as menor ? his allied dice to his Enatto recruitment of "humbly of the Cuband" wa The 19 Nov. 1970 mimounded. Trafficantes) involvement in Phase I is even more fumbled by the available evidence. The 1947 Jabe Report and Interim Report stats that "bold" shen fified "Joe" to Make as a man who would serve as a courier to Cuba and make arrangements there "L P19; Interim Report ??J. To support the description of Trappo as a court the t Inform Report quatto p.19 the 1967 Ib Report in stating that, "At casinos were state fam and Trafficante was mikey regular tugs be and Havanna sundicats basement factually This's unsupported assection of other runs contrary to the evidence available through official government mind is an example, state and As spite reflect the appl a passportin Octobe and received that document in Havana on Fibrey for 1950.

Nowende available to the Committee from DNS, State Depart or FBD read my later 1960. haves even though the Bur mintained decent ve mTuyen duy mac qua In his contextory Trafficents recalled that be made fres to cuba affix his rare fine prison in August 1959 and placed these soyous within Iwo or three months of the his "Testory, pp 4-53, Cet in Haran Как His testing has some lopped auditing in that all of the series will either closed oroperty on the in red" by mid-1960 adlaw enforcement uports plaud him in the Tamps. Man and consistit drug the -Bay of Pigs puud. By the time of the senato testy of Ross however, Traf roll had diminished to a prent Ronished

even coun He Leven below biancang had been reduced to a mere "translator" and was riided only to facilitate caveat who had been recruited for the actual assassination. Infernty Trafficanti and Rosselli 1974 Congressional regener dovetail well but remain in contradiction to the facts an they were reported in 1903 of the fcripals. Comments The senato testiny of Rosselli and Trafficonty needs to be outlined sply to with a view to centuating the "couner in interpreter "role. My memey in that the Senate Lit hot rignancy curs examine the mann at This discrepancy nor did th The Report "hint the problems. Onge the actors had been assembled for the launching of The enterprise a discussion began an to the mito bo explied to iccup the goal. The of Agency took the semplific, straight app off shorting Cast was yeste hut this Ild

Gimcana, Dr. a Comment to its 1987 Right, the Inspector General note the biocana was flatly opposed to the use of firearms. He said that no one could be recruited to do the jo because the chance of survival and escape would be negligible biancana stated a preference for lethal fill it will be put into Castro's ford and dunits. Traficante: the courier) was in a di with Cuban official accusto Castro land presume a fort that would enable him to surreptitiously poison Castro. The Vintus named their man is Juan Orta who then office chief and Duster benea of the office of the m Castro, the gangs said that Orta had once in a position been to recune cu fim the fts but had suc gam lost that source of me a needed the mony Jr [F-G Rent, p25] Comment Report the The absuvates of the 1967 F. Report base are extremely significant several respects. Fuit the poison Dilferual mandagina the Agony, a pront

which is cricked to the final sted below, Secondly, Trefferant is idinifiled is having acouston providing them in Cube which is inconsistent which Mix лег self-saving dept in theplter! His abilit ant wee dusty tied to his off former gamoy empire empire ociations which formed - constant guttin for all wiring colect for Taff both dung and affic his g See Trafficvite profile S Comment addun Speculation concerning tas my Pard sole aise huy the Agency 1977 Report when it was forced to problem raised by an April 23, 1975 ficle, cima Frank Stugis, mitten by ad Meshill of the w "Strugs was quoted as sagen third (anssonar) Scheme involved planting a bin Castro office. Ihad ac to the Dome Minstein line," Steyer mit In Fidel's private security, Junta Drechuld hum to work with the Embassy. I can embassy in Har the What was destiny to the

writer of the 1977 Report was the fact that Orta's name hat surfaced in connection with a Castro assuar plot, a before unilation of the C- Malia connection by the Senate Dilly commit the Report references news stories by tugis wat Frequents and with a il Ner" of Traficantes Namen Roman Bottoms Stygis Styr bits relationships Pupils Coupled worth is the allegation that stayer had a roll in inspector the sambly casents in a n behalf of the casto grement out could have develled an interf with Ohta in rely gambly. hiih bades А А second aspect of Miskild news series conceded d dam Mat Loring the she had wted as behalf of Sturgis in 1968 in atattempt of poison Castrophic dovetailed with the 18 1960 FBD, memorandum ellitioning surv bonicas in which he stated that "the aran and anonged with a girl, not further described, fo. drapa; pillon some dink or ford of Castro's" (Mines, Homer to DCISAH. DORM

the textitive couches adrox the 1977 Report are as foll It is obvious that may lines of speculation can be developed, not the Coast of which is that the Agny did not hum the full wint Additonal consideator: Cuma system to my will have he some indigenant of ?? king prior to CIA it in late 19. A could have bar CDA unitat fan in 1902 2. Syndet oplets could ham hat have acters such as there in New York Dauf Now she 1975 and 1976. 3. Frank Sturges suns to have had contacts with but not a r of syndet. Could well have ben used by the sundeck. - 21. Sturges thas not be aweso He probly men orta in Cuba but he was outside cube when Gitaarning coll of of massion. If there was an earer fact w/ Orta, it was not CEE could have been eacher operations of se Sopedias Stings could have smo ben involved in syndet to open or gidel up gosip from Wind 15

Neither the 1967 Ich Report or the SSC Interim Report can pinpoint the purse the Agery, man detenced to dato in which processed the poisoned pitts which orde Interim Report, Pro]. The chain of custody, accoity to the 1107 I-6- Report them was for the lethal pills & be lived from Rossell- to Trefferante. Although the next intervening steps remain myphy, Rosselli report & Coat that the pills had been delivered to Orta in Cuba in lato Felly-a Mach 1961 [Interim Rgit, p.27. Tatum Rpt Comment: The Senate Interim Report reported the version of Joe Simon C whose ming was that the mency and pills for the apuation delivered at a meeting at the Foundlin Hotel on Mud 12, 1961 "Mahen, Roselle Trafferents, and the " Intuin Pst peis Shimmis - story is filled with verid dituill which are document estry on pt 2 of the Report, but his credits/1 suffect of servis union as this account shared & aryme the immed with the plan now is his richterslip with

Rossell, biancang or Trafficant "Cory" as he would appear as lead one abilene, It is tho that sh was a source for June 1, 1941 which fixed the dato and toassay porn at the Fountable Mach 13, 19611 and contened the report that Castro became ill a few boy weeks later. the real, is that reproom with Shinus stay in they the t for a fills me for miske because it could for would not attempt the poisming; a fact appunt unten & shimore belie before his "" to and his Senate estimers I Comment to One addifund fact concry. Orta's in ability to cry out the inability ca mersim tuis on with the find thesis of this report, Orta ust his positum in Castro's office 20 Jany 1981, while the playing for the operation was still goily. n and Westgin. It would seem though, that t ganches diffin that it had addy lost his accreto Castro look 1967. Report p. 275 p.2?

Orta Woth the failure to produce the desired results project was at a standsted unte, once again, Santic assumed command Rosselli that "Trafficant ev a certain leading figure in the Cuban exch movement 7th might exit be able to accomplish the sente I 1987 DO eptip 29, Pouten Rpt pt. Comment: The will leader was of couse Toy de Vana who was the subject of speculation in an FBI mit 1961. mauty him with receiving feared aid form, Amicon garyster for anti-Castro activities which The CIA operation. me It the time of its interlude s into the CIA mod gusts, die mas already pery fimiled of the Agony through The Revolentry Front and has hear involved in CIA planing for the Boy of Pigs invation which was Pigs immunt. very Infect in Vand was also oust in 1960-lube my seadus ager was engaged in posting an image in collaboration with cent

"Chill" Mendaya menda is descend in trafficanti FAT fills Tropicantes is le bon associates completing the proture of support for van is the protina efforts of the Dins and de Cellini, Michany ad husyusnic anetti, who wie portedly working through a Wesly for tid, public relations firm, Edward I moss and Associates. Man had pemes CPA associations and was supposedly acting as a cou стри for funds supplied by the bl Allen benefactors with the undisfonds that that gray would have priveiled bay in the Cuba of the future: Afterpts Чива to velify for to relify -reports were unsuccnful "I 1967 Do Report P.30] The Larises in influ using the Calling bothus as a "front" is particully infurtry in light of Varnasadnion that Jorge Piyolonged a muting in mon in 1160 when my ly financity "Back efforts Hp "educato the mucan Fugle Custo which may hea euphemin for be Canto as I felt truspit مح

the logied inference to be drawn is that both the Agency as agayed cume; and other purens infused in rig The Caitre; my poor ingehad settled the ryan de Vany inspended individual густ who had the potential of uniting multitudoff will groups who win a continal infernicine fume, de Jau undistandaly pleased was to permit be us, gevement and cal syndicate heffer him offer hem support and no questions as to the source of the funds or the motives of his senefactors Σ see van terting по jectic Although de "ming of mulling Trafferents, the Tango cunt bins admits that he acted as "antipater in several meetings intended de Vina Rosselli, bone, and other exiles. these meltings nice and by Retail, "Machi" fines, a Traian's Smyth from who contenied to sune Trafferente confimies. m in men during the 1980s. Treffe claimed that had tener but this u in uw of Tificant Ⓒ long-stant fu in Cuba and Poodles sdmin t

O'Conell that Tanto for the ill-fated, Juan had exceed to the Venopation ер coride the replacement who ombay Comment: by in 19611 Apr Zarallelling y the situation at the sent heaving duy 1975 when "Rossellis discepter of traferente charged from the uner in 1960tedly the song a conforms trafficient "interpreter" statement, is the incentiv with bener who apes with Trefficenter sting he wa Ronald you 대표 a For in batt instruces to to mine Traficantes pure (CF. Forji enten with Gener, May? 1978 and Traffiant testemuiny, Oct. 71977] Vent came goes, the to abiguit exerts as to the Seafics of the induction of de Varna inter One of the Castro at plot, more comb compusion suns devaratul puter or to the Bay Pine, the IG Report indicates that des attempted a жира зает пить before then invasion but Roelle was positive that my one

attempt, (Ortas) was made was aho pos Have that he delivered both pills, many and supplier of dan whell corroborat is dury 1961, the conflict is red by the senato in speculaty that only one pre-Bay of Pigs attempt was made, and that de vainas the contact in the States New anned for., Eorta the poison. Comment There appears to be no factu to resolve de Vaya Initial anal "Confirauten to the poison attempts of way especialy service denies ever recuvid poison pits have solli or buy in the in any attempt on lestion life at any form I am unsept Comment the The Agery was aware of possible dangus inferent in having dew pics in the mods while pls his put in the However, "Step tatin to end his puficipation in the syndicats po [My apply inflective TALI C. Report, P32]

Phase I the debacle which mached the rud-spill 1901 Bay of Pigs the mob to asante Cantos with was not until spil 1942, when Bill Han arned Agony jesubty for the task, wer re-establis its mida to the Roselle Hovence, the fact that the Agency was squeamish duy the Buy of Pigs aftermath to continuets my to kill Castro, dock not mean That the mad shared their shynes Indeed, botto any and ind smore hat Hany "fork over going operation? II.G. the act details на 330 that operaation might have been can be has not been uncovered, hat Rosselli abity to u generate his fines response рирние to Hovers contact in uil 199 was immediate- Once again the ubiquitous dev gustares provide the who would Cary the lethal poison into cube Hi there will some was to significant important difference be One and Phase Two of the auton which bear upist the ultimite quested of the moths motivation and

seras pus in canging out their part of the bargain in 1960 The Agency. Fust In Phase One, Rosselli stal had demonstrated their abilit the contract on Castro by naming their source who was in fact, ina. positions postin vase of Castro to ed In contrast, the lack of the r operenal and the wit of the After Harry initial vague. Man in pul 1962, Hary reported that 11. The manner in which the hal material was to be introduced into est ford ( which involved] anus of mas who had accus to samimi ли "By June 1982 after the received. mony and murupin f • JMWAVR Fation and had prisimaty sent the gills Cube "Resell youted to Harvey in 21 June that m had disputahed a team & the mone to rest what they were support to do is putty vague. Hany said that thy appeared of have no plan for a species holly caster. They were to secu who might be und in such a scheme If any told last presents self, thy or the persons they recruited we make the -- using the pills. Harvy never t

brin work for Pearson and ded that Anderson had more than a passing acquance with Magan also fight with Pa сни of NSC SECRET

their names or lythy about theme < 1967 DG; Report P51. Comment As the 1967 I auta correctly obscoved, Harvey talk of the favor ustaurant potsony we te plan that ward had described in that w plan" the same the fact that con reluted the exact modes operandi: to Harvey as he had s with Braids in Phase one (circa 1960-mid19611 leads to the possibilities that as (1) Hany was come in sung that he was takery over an in going operaten in April 1942 on (2) the not had been uny 4. Una before, dug, and aff Bay and the CPA to provide logistical support future pestuction acount the and Justice; or (3). de Vauna was simply making up a story for the Aguay gain the financial backing Ther or response to duectives for ngig cume Second SECRET m the cast. of undle would

charastus changed. Harry had insisted that maker and can be dropped from the operatore which dreaded to Trafferantis "inferrific "we was animed "phon y Cuban who spoke Italian" and also sometimes used the me and Goday. Comment "Marcos" in froduce for into me of the most sensitive CPA covert actions in histes without any attempt at his b or to ascertain her identity is extraordinary. Yet, the Agency again twowent blithely to bed to with of the top hon in the Shot without doing my besic background scout investigation. though the 19877-8. Recent Marlon "Rosselli's main! it is that this individ was drafted f had provided de cu Whe previously used in the attings and wht still pussessed in 1942, the most complete retook of allies in mu and cub 15000

fumination of the CPA ? matic was plots slow and undramatic Possed in May 1962 pod to Hany that the pills and gues which had been delivered in in April had, and an my unidentifies three-man team had bee in June to fit the plane & Interns Rept 0845 Duery September 1942, Rinelli ? related to Hung that de Va readying поесть уши-тон Ниж who were" supplere where assignment was to pensato. Castres body guard During this d the medicine was reported as stiller place and the three men of the fint team safe < 1967 DG. Report, por How the second team nov made and ass of abs were constructed duy Decemb supposed/0 4 Jany Nevertheles, M the ment -1963. Nevertheles, ana of these individual from selle who had record the Hary, ₤19675G. Repert P52 payment In mid-Jan 1943 for Heway and Reselligued that "nothing was happening and that there was not much chance that anything would happen in the future" Lion. Respon 1987. Remelli instructed to ease his way out of foush with was did. Vid The last meeting between Han

and Rosselli occid in Wasayfor Rossellicce 0002209.C. on June 1963. when he was Hay night guest. Honor their meeting ostensibly was not g ted to any amassinator plots.

CONCLUSION the available evidence suggests the thesis which in part, in tacitly assumed by the Agony in its 1977 internal Dpect benual Report where in it states that," It is pos that CIA simply found Healt involved in providing addifinal resources for independent operations that the syndicated had under way. On a CTA may have been piggy-backing . Its mandato, and, in addition to. contributions, was also supplying 7. offical sanction ат айта L 1977 PG Rpt fro of the relevant evidence is as follies FBF memo 18 Oct 1960 re biancana ET SUR: L biancana perfect assured. heeb those present that Castro niton would occur in November. Moreover, The allegedy indicated that he hap already met with the sun to be "on the accasions is. казана claim that has been perfected for the stad that the unasson had aranged Holly with a girl, not further to trop a "gill in some unit or fond of Castro. L 1977 To apt p197 Comment Although therintul multis belman Mahun, Roll, ad finn

are subject to different interpretation, clear that no plans were Contil some time afte between the patie FRIS: co-a that of the infcepted conversationa biancana. CTA at once requ The prim pille, pruned by the peopes not way for Fally its - no had Mark 1941 so that it is defullt to see how busi No 1760 massinate could be a part of the CPA.. Rather, it appears this the m sivan plan in propues using in Centro, ach the dud when the CPA fortuitor happened leny to offer it support. The mos was then in a pupet position. Po their quled deed plot actual worked diet then the Syndicat had енит Fuckmail potented agunt the C which it could win of the ortune moment, Hower of t intrigues back fired, then their co would be that they wer of attempting to cut the wishes of their gevement. Additonal Comment на The "hired hand". Recubre cain Action of romanas not the raise some interesten admissen possibilites birin Caris admon

the FBI that he had been joined the ducis c cucc and Sheriffs office while in fun apperade to The Of A Chicgs office in the full of 1940, to phil informane of the Cuban coming he is a more than than appear coincidental. Then when FBF files in that is planny to to for Life magazine (one stay, and (. 75 "bug" influential cubain Havan un ostensibly for edu Prio (siend story) the coincidic be more suspect. The susp is that Cain was being sent Good sugune the poison attempt on Fidel Castro ned be the " !! повин виси refers of in the an to 1960 worde could be the contact man for the operation. Σ Tie in mento on Cain with Salinas view which by stingly suppl is If the wind, that was th missing second man" in the ba writs of ret 30, 1960- Mahur needs to be quitend on this point] Cain confirmed to "volunteer" informato and 194 The CFR 1963. In tight 1943. offull infinator on the DRE Studiet Drecty in chigo to that office of the gig In

was the former head of the Director's Cuba when he was a ma pemerin deposing Batista. In September 1983 Cain rend to the chigo off of the C office DRE was in a dedi & prchase a large shipment. He was told by the Agly to "get out дексит by pictures an which "the recture" a five includy the fact that the CP was a witting participant in the ded Cain 27, 196. non the day investigator for C Coung Shengts не уже, куку men the gave Oswald wes in a cluego in Aud 1923 1 The Fair Play form and chured the su had ugh it much 1963 2. Recruitment of Assasen's) In verby the putative poisoner, the potential in for 1940 froncana spoke of a" gul "who was duese to Cistro while the individual recruit for the CSA pille Juan Orta, a secrety in ично Castos Prime Ministry. the identity of the "girl" refined. to by beancana can never be rusting but Trafficanto was clear in the best osition to remittan me of Cestros sutan his multitude of contacts in the Cutan gamby and stands

It was comm forgangste Сибан, торино та Trafficanti, Rottoman, and Tou will types. Alone wit the commit that lastro was accistimed to any at the Naciona Hotel (mined & Mike Mchany) encont hany/cenes ona ulur basis to one This, it would of his на I have been relatively for to have amarged for to I here foto women to service Casto attement a poisin him, main Mainta Loveny is a compering the mas sin wetness the potential 0.8k hest, and her Frank Stugis has been pul disced. Howell, one intuity point is that she was Tournes misters and this coul have been solicited to activate Unfortun the poison plot. is totally uncooperative Long asked about her was r with Touren in cut so that do not mean the dates match. Comment Juan Orta, the many to the Aging as the gungsties Contact in castris inner circle, was premun insted former recept One however, an My heel in attempting to guage the dirth of the most in using Inta to execute the plan. To Recent Laget Accy to the

Orta "lost his position in the Pune M Office on a 1966, which thing for the operation was still who still going on in and in Washy candy to the official version Orta recupted for the pells in like Filmy Much, and cept the alla for a couple of weeks before returned them" 1967 Rpt p??J If the mob was done mugh to Dito to have fills sold in a out of cuta, then they ha dito had lost his passtem of cussibilty- ?? the other posts, that the fill never left the stand thes be was bought into the plot to Meesund The oustin then to whether the mat was us "their own missent lot and The CFA operation of, what appeas more likely, sining uses vary the guy for the outlined, west. using ulfur privacy Tuincy to Phase IT of the operation which began in April 1942, there the same possibilition If Harry and one are correct in any that Hang had walled into an "ongoing reston, then it can be that the ld with which the CFA ficacy to the FR minus 21 Dec 1920, and 18 Day 1881 had contered unintented after the