NW 88326

Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10489
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995
Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 9

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 3

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

DocId:32239497 Page 1

---

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: 180-10060-10489
RECORDS SERIES: STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: HSCA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 06/01/77
PAGES: 11
SUBJECTS:
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
MORTON, CECELIA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION: U
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS: P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/04/93
OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS:
Box 2.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
NW 88326
DocId:32239497 Page 2
Date: 08/20/93
Page: 1

---

C.
MORTON, C. T.
Name of Employee
Address
Address
DATE OF APPOINTMENT
OFFICE OF THE CLERK
U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
PERSONAL LEAVE RECORD
1977
YEAR
ANNUAL LEAVE
CATEGORY
BALANCE BROUGHT
FORWARD FROM
PRECEDING YEAR
Annual
Leave
Sick
Leave
Phone Number
Position Title
Position Number
Level
Step
6-1-77
1.0
PRIOR FEDERAL SERVICE
1.5
2.0
Years
Months
ACCRUED
THIS MONTH
AVAILABLE
THIS MONTH
USED
THIS MONTH
BALANCE
AT CLOSE
OF MONTH
DAY OF MONTH
Month
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
Annual Sick
Leave Leave
Annual
Leave
Sick
Leave
Annual Sick
Leave Leave
Annual
Sick
Leave
Leave
Jan.
Feb.
Mar.
Apr.
May
June
July
Aug.
Sept.
Oct.
Nov.
Dec.
XX
= 0.5 day annual leave
= 1.0 day annual leave
= 0.5 day sick leave
S
or
S
= 1.0 day sick leave
= 0.5 day administrative leave
A or A
= 1.0 day administrative leave
U
= 0.5 day unauthorized absence
U
U
or
Employee's Signature
Date
(If employee refuses to sign, state reason below.)
☐ /
☐ /
2
2
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
Approved:
Chief's Signature
Clerk of the House
N
2
2
อ
N
Date
= 1.0 day unauthorized absence
= 0.5 day leave without pay
= 1.0 day leave without pay
This record will be forwarded to the Clerk of the House at the end of each calendar year, or in case of termination, along
with the request for termination. Upon approval, the record will be filed in the employee's official personnel folder.
NW 88326
DocId:32239497 Page 3
EXHIBIT I
Date
EMPLOYEE
INITIALS

---

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

Cecelia T. Morton Effective Date 9/5/77

Employee Social Security Number Type of Action
578 66 0125 ☐ Appointment

Employing Office or Committee ☐ Salary Adjustment
☑ Termination (At close of business on effective date)
Assassinations

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary
Secretary

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. ☐ Standing Committee: Staff -☐ Clerical or ☐ Professional.

2. Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 465 of 95th Congress.

3. ☐ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number If applicable, Level Step

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives.

Date August 1, 1977
(Signature of Authorizing Official)
Louis Stokes
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
Chairman
(Title If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code
Monthly Annuity $ .00

NW 88326
DocId:32239497 Page 4

APPROVED:
Chairman, Committee on House Administration
Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

---

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

Cecelia T. Morton Effective Date 8/1/77

Employee Social Security Number Type of Action
578-66-0125 ☐ Appointment

Employing Office or Committee ☐ Salary Adjustment
☐ Termination (At close of business on effective date)
Assassinations

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary
Secretary 12,000

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. ☐ Standing Committee: Staff ☐ Clerical or ☐ Professional.

2. Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 465 of 95th Congress.

3. ☐ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House; complete item below.):

Position Number If applicable, Level Step

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives.

Date August 2, 1977
(Signature of Authorizing Official)
LOUIS STOKES
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
CHAIRMAN
(Title If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code
Monthly Annuity $ .00

NW 88326
DocId:32239497 Page 5

APPROVED:
Chairman, Committee on House Administration.
Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

---

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

Cecelia T. Morton Effective Date 6/1/77

Employee Social Security Number Type of Action
578 66 0125 Appointment

Employing Office or Committee Salary Adjustment
Termination (At close of business on effective date)
Assassinations

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary
Secretary $11,000

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff - Clerical or ☐ Professional.

2. ☑Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 465 of 95th Congress.

3. ☐ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.):

Position Number If applicable, Level Step

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives.

Date June 1, 1977
(Signature of Authorizing Official)
Louis Stokes
Chairman
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
(Title If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code
Monthly Annuity $ .00

NW 88326
DocId:32239497 Page 6

APPROVED:
Chairman, Committee on House Administration
Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

---

CECELIA MORTON
REFERRED BY REP. JOHN BURTON
CURRENTLY MAKING 10,400
WOULD COME AT SLIGHT
INCREASE - 10,500 - 11,000
I RECOMMEND HIRING HER
AS TYPIST.
NW 88326
DocId:32239497 Page 7

---

MEMORANDUM

TO: Tom Howarth and Becky Martin
FROM: Steve Fallis
DATE: May 13, 1977
RE: Secretaries

1. Eileen Copeland has been hired as a secretary and will begin work on Monday, May 16, 1977. Her salary will be $11,000 per year and she will be temporarily assigned to the Legal Unit.

2. Nancy Schultz has been hired as a secretary, to begin work on Monday, May 23, 1977, at a salary of $12,000 per year. She is to be assigned to the Administrative Unit.

3. Cecilia Morton has been hired as a secretary and will begin work on June 1, 1977. Her salary will be $11,000 per year. She will be assigned to the Kennedy Unit.

The resumes for Ms. Copeland, Ms. Morton and Ms. Schultz accompany the copy of this memorandum to Becky Martin.

NW 88326
DocId:32239497 Page 8

---

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF
RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the certification:

father nephew brother-in-law
mother niece sister-in-law
son husband stepfather
daughter wife stepmother
brother father-in-law stepbrother
sister mother-in-law stepsister
uncle son-in-law half-brother
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister
first cousin

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel file. If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget Office immediately of the change.

☑ I am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

☐ I am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.
(Please specify.)

Cecelia Morton
6-2-77
Date
Signature of Employee
NW 88326
DocId:32239497 Page 9

---

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN
RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C.
WALTER E. FAUNTROY, D.C.
YVONNE BRATHWAITE BURKE, CALIF.
CHRISTOPHER J. DODO, CONN.
HAROLD E. FORD, TENN.
FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND.
SAMUEL L. DEVINE, OHIO
JOHN B. ANDERSON, ILL.
STEWART B. MC KINNEY, CONN.
CHARLES THONE, NEBR.
ROBERT W. EDGAR, PA.

(202) 225-4624

Select Committee on Assassinations
U.S. House of Representatives
3342 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

NW 88326
DocId:32239497 Page 10

MEMORANDUM

TO: Congressman Louis Stokes
FROM: Cecelia T. Morton
SUBJECT: Resignation
DATE: July 27, 1977

Please accept this as my resignation as of today's date to terminate August 5, 1977.

I am sorry for the short visit but I have been offered security and a more substantial job and better opportunities and wish to express my regret, for I have accepted this position.

I shall not forget the experience of working for the Committee and wish everyone the best of luck in trying to solve these cases.

Sincerely,
Cecelia Morton

---

RESUME
Cecelia Morton
Date of Birth: 8-13-49
No. of Dependents: 1

Cecelia T. Morton
1240 46th Street S.E.
Washington, D.C. 20019
(202) 575-2571
Marital Status: Married

Employment Record
April 1972 - Present
Job Description:

Rural Housing Alliance, 1346 Connecticut Ave.
N. W. Washington, D. C. 20036 (202) 659-1680
Immediate Supervisor: David Raphael
Title: Assistant Director
Position: Secretary
Reason for Leaving: Need new Challenges

Responsible for assisting Director in carrying out duties pertaining to fund-raising activities and special projects. Interviewing applicants for various secretarial positions. Responsible for review of items published in Federal Register. Prepare summaries of all rules and notices of regulations pertaining to rural issues. Responsible for maintenance of library, publications, and materials, periodic review of system of coding and filing. (Volume approximately 4,000 items)

Also served as Membership and Subscription Secretary which duties included: processing applications for members, day-to-day contact with mailing houses. Maintaining supply of materials for publications. Assisting with the organization of new publications, layout work.

At one time served as Information Director/ Research Secretary, some duties included: preparation and layout work for the monthly newsletter (RHA Reporter) for printers, making travel arrangements, coordinating all local and national newsclippings dealing with housing issues, responding to members inquiries. Typing press releases, speeches, statements, and other correspondence.

(more)
NW 88326
DocId:32239497 Page 11

---

Cecelia Morton
-2-

Employment Record (Cont'd)

September 1969 - April 1972 Riggs National Bank, 1510 H Street N.W.,
Washington, D. C. 20005 (202) 624-2630
Immediate Supervisor: Linda Porter
Position: Clerk-Typist
Reason for Leaving: Need for sufficient salary; better opportunities for advancement
Job Description: Transferring stocks and bonds, light bookkeeping, correcting computer print-out sheets and balancing companies records, answering phones, various mailing jobs.

Part-time high school September 1969 Chemical Bank, 277 Park Avenue, New York, New York
Immediate Supervisor: Ken Barrington
Title: Trust Officer
Position: Clerk-Typist
Reason for Leaving: Left city to move to Wash., D.C.
Job Description: Crediting checking accounts, issuing series E savings bonds, ordering checkbooks, typing loan contracts, receptionist duties, general office work.

Education

Charles Evans Hughes High School, West 18th Street, New York, New York, graduated June 1967.

Armstrong Adult Education Night School, 1st & P Streets N.W. Washington D. C. Received certificate 1971 in keypunching.

References

Mr. David Raphael, Asst. Director, Rural Housing Alliance, 1346 Connecti-
cut Avenue N.W, Washington, D. C. 20036 (202) 659-1680

Ms. Mary Lansing, Admin. Ass't to Rep. John Burton, 1714 Longworth Bldg.,
Washington, D. C. (202) 225-5161

Mrs. Claire Earle, 9562 Landbreeze Row, Columbia, Md. (301) 596-6753
NW 88326
DocId:32239497 Page 12

---

MAY 9 1977
MEMO from Catlin Motor
To Mr Hutton 5-6-77
Hello;
Date
I really appreciate
you taking time with
me today. Enclosed is
the verification. I
hope to hear from you
soon.
☐ Reply ☐ Initial and return
11AM
c.M. WED 5/11
☐ See me
NW 88326
DocId:32239497 Page 13

---

JACK BROOK, TEX., CHAIRMAN
ROBERT N. GIAIMO, CONN.
JAMES G. O'HARA, MICH.
JAMES C. CLEVELAND, N.H.
JOHN M. ASHBROOK, OHIO

Congress of the United States
JOINT COMMITTEE ON CONGRESSIONAL OPERATIONS
OFFICE OF PLACEMENT AND OFFICE MANAGEMENT
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

LEE METCALF, MONT.,
VICE CHAIRMAN
MIKE GRAVEL, ALASKA
LAWTON CHILES, FLA.
JESSE A. HELMS, N.C.
PETE V. DOMENICI, N. MEX.

MAY 9 1977
Date 5/6/77

Listed below is the result of a test administered by the Placement Office to Cecelia Morton on Friday, May 6, 1977.

Typing:
76 wpm on a 5-minute test
(81 wpm with 5 errors)

Anne Wlander
Placement Officer
NW 88326
DocId:32239497 Page 14
