JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 10/13/20

Agency Information:

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: 180-10117-10032
RECORD SERIES: NUMBERED FILES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 015097

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: MONTGOMERY COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF POLICE
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: EUGENE MICHAEL CARRAFA
DATE: 08/03/1976
PAGES: 141
SUBJECTS:
IDENTIFICATION
ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
CARRAFA, EUGENE MICHAEL
ROSELLI, JOHN
ORGANIZED CRIME
OSWALD, LEE HARVEY; PRE RUSSIAN PERIOD;
DESCRIPTION AND....
CIA; STAFF
DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/14/1996
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: Tabbed FBI 295-1. File 6-32. Box 295.

ORGANIZED CRIME SECTION File No. 6-32
ORGANIZED CRIME REPORT Date 08-03-76
Subject Eugene Michael Carrafa 015097 Confidential
Source (Name or Number) Det. J. Arnold
Evaluation of Source:
Highly Reliable
Usually Reliable
Reliability Questionable
Source Identification:
Private Citizen
Law Enforcement Officer
Gov't Agency
Criminal Source
Other (Specify)
Information Acquired by:
Personal Knowledge
Documents
Hypothesis
News Media
Heresay/Rumor

INFORMATION:
#1. Eugene Michael CARRAFA
W/M, 05-23-40
7828 Briardale Terrace
Derwood, Maryland
(301) 948-8713
Vehicle: 75 Lincoln Mark IV
White in color
Md. reg. GINO

#2. Gino's Classical Cars, Inc. #3. Stanley Norman TASHOFF, Atty.
3909 Pulaski Highway W/M, 6'4", 180, 12-11-40
Abington, Harford County, Md. 9321 Garden Court
Potomac, Md.
(301) 299-6991 (home)
19110 Montgomery Village Ave.
Gaithersburg, Maryland
948-1466

On the above date writer was contacted by Det. J. Arnold, Crimes
Against Property, wherein Arnold related that he was working a missing
person case on subject #1, CARRAFA. Arnold related that CARRAFA'S daughter
suspected foul play as her father went to Brooklyn, New York on or about
07-26-76 to get $10,000.00 from one J. Knol (phonetic) of 3848 Atlantic
Avenue, Seagate, Brooklyn, New York. Contact by the family (CARRAFA'S) with
Knol resulted in Knol, allegedly, telling them that CARRAFA went on to
California after receiving the money.

Information Content:
Verified
Partially Verified
Unverified
Similar Info. in File No.
Recommended Followup:
Investigator to Verify
Source to Verify
Analyze & Evaluate
File
Approved by

VICE-INTELLIGENCE DIVISION
MONTGOMERY COUNTY POLICE DEPARTMENT
CONTINUING INVESTIGATIONS REPORTS
SUBJECT/CASE REFERENCE: CARRAFA, Eugene Michael
DATE OBSERVATIONS/INVESTIGATION CONDUCTED/EXPENSES
Det. Arnold contacted Mrs. CARRAFA and attempted to
secure CARRAFA'S home and business toll records as same,
according to Mrs. CARRAFA, were allegedly at home and in the
office. On 08-04-76 Mrs. CARRAFA related that she could not
find the records, and writer and Det. Arnold summonsed same
from the C & P Telephone Co. of Maryland.

It was further learned that on 07-22-76 to 07-23-76
person or persons, unknown, allegedly broke into Gino's
Classic Cars and removed the following three vehicles:
1. 1936 Packard Conv., gray in color, tan top & red wheels,
Serial # 904485; title issued to CARRAFA; value $70,000.00.
2. 1931 Cadillac Conv., brown in color with tan fenders &
top, Serial #1002698; owned by CARRAFA; value $90,000.00.
3. 1954 Mercedes Benz Conv., white in color with black top,
Serial #300186014; owned by CARRAFA, LEC #00519409,
value $23,000.00.
TOTAL VALUE OF ALL CARS: $183,000.00

It was further learned that CARRAFA'S associate was
one Det. Joseph Ronald Smisek, W/M, 09-06-45, this department.

On 08-04-76 writer contacted NYCPD reference a check on
Knol (ph.) and a possible hit was made on the following:
Jay Knohl
W/M, DOB 03-10-33
NYCPD B#516067
909 East 29th Street
Brooklyn, New York

Writer has requested arrest record and photograph,
via letter, on Knohl for identification purposes by daughter.
Knohl is known to be a "pick-up man" for an unknown banker
in New York as he was arrested on 11-25-68, 01-16-69, and
03-09-70 for possession of slips with horse bets on same.

VICE-INTELLIGENCE DIVISION
MONTGOMERY COUNTY POLICE DEPARTMENT
CONTINUING INVESTIGATIONS REPORTS
SUBJECT/CASE REFERENCE: CARRAFA, Eugene Michael
DATE OBSERVATIONS/INVESTIGATION CONDUCTED/EXPENSES
On 08-05-76, Det. Fred Elflein, NYCPD, O/C, contacted
writer reference to their recovery, at 1915 hours, 08-04-76,
of the body of a W/M, shot numerous times in the head and strangled,
wrapped in chains. Said body had identification papers of
CARRAFA and Knol (ph.); and same rose to the surface near
buoy #4, Great Kills Harbor, off Staten Island. It is
believed that the body is that of CARRAFA.

F.B.I. contacted by writer and are forwarding prints on
CARRAFA to writer. CARRAFA has no record, served in Marine
Corp., and was born in Waterbury, Conn.

Check of Gino's Classical Cars through State Department
of Assessments and Taxation reveals that same was incorporated
on 11-18-74 by Stanley N. Tashoff, Esq.

VICE-INTELLIGENCE DIVISION
MONTGOMERY COUNTY POLICE DEPARTMENT
CONTINUING INVESTIGATIONS REPORTS
SUBJECT/CASE REFERENCE: CARRAFA, Eugene Michael
DATE OBSERVATIONS/INVESTIGATION CONDUCTED/EXPENSES
08-05-76 Information received from NYCPD that in 1968 Jay Knohl
turned in two New York driver's licenses to the Maryland
Department of Motor Vehicles. Check with M.V.A. reveals
a Maryland License for: J. G. Knohl
W/M, 03-10-33, 5'10", 175
17929 Archwood Way
Olney, Maryland
Subject has one point, a '73 Lincoln, no tags, and a non-
published telephone number. It is noted that CARRAFA'S
wife, Carol Mildred CARRAFA, is employed by the M.V.A.

Writer checked with Community Storage Park, Redland Road,
948-8813 reference any garages being leased by Knohl,
CARRAFA, Smisek, or Gino's Classical Cars with negative
results.

Source advises that Miss Shoemaker, CARRAFA'S daughter,
called C & P on 08-04-76 and requested that one of two
telephones, 948-8713, be disconnected. The other line
going into CARRAFA'S residence is 948-0427.

CARRAFA'S tolls received from C & P are as follows
reference New York telephone calls:
Brooklyn (212) 946-3976
Brooklyn (212) 946-0260
Brooklyn (212) 372-7198
Brooklyn (212) 235-5382
Brooklyn (212) 946-7917
Brooklyn (212) 342-2534
08-06-76 Telephone call from Det. Smisek wherein he inquired as to
whether there would be any problem with his attending
CARRAFA'S funeral. Smisek further related that he knew
and dealt with CARRAFA when they were purchasing $3,000
class cars.

Smisek related that Mrs. CARRAFA called Mrs. Fritz, M.V.A.
and stated that she did not believe that the body in New
York was CARRAFA'S. He further stated that CARRAFA'S
friend was one Ralph Dawson a driver for Passport Transport
Co., Philadelphia, a carrier of classical cars.

VICE-INTELLIGENCE DIVISION
MONTGOMERY COUNTY POLICE DEPARTMENT
CONTINUING INVESTIGATIONS REPORTS
SUBJECT/CASE REFERENCE: CARRAFA, Eugene Michael
DATE OBSERVATIONS/INVESTIGATION CONDUCTED/EXPENSES
08-06-76 A subject by the name of "Reds", 424-6151 will be called
by Smisek in an attempt to locate Dawson.

Smisek also related that Bill Bogley knows Jay Knohl,
and that in November of '75 a mutual friend of Smiseks
and CARRAFA'S, Bob Leonardo, from Kensington, allegedly
died of brain cancer.

Source in Plantation Florida P.D. advises the following
subscriber information for the four Florida telephone
numbers called by CARRAFA:
(305) 857-0293 Lillian Hair
5908 Luzon Drive
Orlando, Florida
(305) 595-9339 Alan Smith
9315 S.W. 77th Ave., Apt. 119
Miami, Florida
(305) 776-6765 Lewis E. Iandoli
#1 Compass Road
Fort Lauderdale, Florida
(305) 941-0746 Ann Iandoli
Ann's Beach Ware
37 Ocean Side Center
Pompano Beach, Florida
also (305) 941-0745

Reference "Reds" and (301) 424-6151; cross directory and
M.V.A. reveal him to be Joseph John Ilgenfritz, W/M,
03-19-07, 5'9", 175, Soundex I-425-441-429-207, of 401
West Montgomery Avenue, Rockville, Maryland. Subject has
two vehicles registered to him with the following title
numbers:
3959498
4077488

VICE-INTELLIGENCE DIVISION
MONTGOMERY COUNTY POLICE DEPARTMENT
CONTINUING INVESTIGATIONS REPORTS
SUBJECT/CASE REFERENCE: CARRAFA, Eugene Michael
DATE OBSERVATIONS/INVESTIGATION CONDUCTED/EXPENSES
08-06-76 CARRAFA'S long distance toll records reveal that he called the
following numbers:
(301) 268-1192 Annapolis
761-9393 Glen Burnie
838-2010 Bel Air
838-9189 Bel Air
272-2800 Aberdeen
774-7200 Ashton
Montgomery General Hospital
335-3043 Chase
761-8860 Glen Burnie
829-2153 Mt. Airy
838-3100 Bel Air
272-5800 Aberdeen
679-6467 Edgewood
(202) 665-0576 Washington, D.C.
operator says 665 number is for a mobile telephone
listed to Kensington Motor Sales, 10615 Connecticut
Avenue, Kensington, Md. listed number for same is
948-2803

Court House records checked reference incorporation of Gino's
Classical Cars, Inc., and same reveal the following:
Locate Liber HMS 242 Folio 261
Incorporators:
(1) Jay Knohl
17929 Archwood Way
Olney, Md.
(2) Eugene CARRAFA
(3) Stanley N. Tashoff, Esq.
close corporation, 100 shares issued
two (2) directors Jay Knohl & Gino Carrafa

Corporation papers located in liber 2122 folio 155 at State
Department of Assessments and Taxation.

On 08-06-76 writer went to 17929 Archwood Way, Olney, Md.;
for this was the residence listed for Knohl's Md. operator's
license and noted on his corporation papers. Parked in the

VICE-INTELLIGENCE DIVISION
MONTGOMERY COUNTY POLICE DEPARTMENT
CONTINUING INVESTIGATIONS REPORTS
SUBJECT/CASE REFERENCE: CARRAFA, Eugene Michael
DATE OBSERVATIONS/INVESTIGATION CONDUCTED/EXPENSES
driveway of the residence was a late model Monte Carlo,
Michigan reg. MDH 710 and a Continental D.C. dealer tag D1546.

It was learned from Mrs. David P. Knohl (maiden name Camille
NMN Saviano, W/F 12-24-39) that Jay Knohl was her brother-in-
law; and he rarely lived there. Her husband, David P. Knohl,
W/M, 07-10-41, was not at home at the time of the interview;
however a visitor was present and he is as follows:
Louis Anthony Piccerelli
W/M, 05-04-39, approx. 6'2", 200 lbs.
32402 Barclay Square
Warren, Michigan 48093
(313) 979-4777

Mrs. Knohl stated that she last saw Gino CARRAFA on 07-26-76
at her residence for dinner. Piccerelli stated that he too
was present at the dinner. Mrs. Knohl stated that the family
went to Ocean City, Md. on August 1 and on August 2 one Guy
Sullivan, (301) 768-4331 notified her that CARRAFA was missing.
Mrs. Knohl also stated that she talked to Jay Knohl on
08-05-76 and Jay stated that he gave CARRAFA some money when
he saw him in New York.

Writer had a discussion with Piccerelli and it was learned that
up until a few weeks ago he was a bouncer at Fran O'Brians
Anthony House. Piccerelli stated that he knew Richie McCaleb,
McGowan, Joe Nesline, Becky Sutton; and without any prompting
Charlie Tourine. Piccerelli stated that the aforementioned
were only gamblers and McGowan was too dumb to be a "hit man"
as reported in a media article The Washingtonian.

When I inquired of Piccerelli what he was presently doing, he
stated that in two weeks he and two partners were going to
open a bar in Detroit called "The Three of Us". When I
remarked that Joseph Zerelli might be around, Piccerelli
stated that Joe was too old and his brothers, Tony (Anthony)
and another name, were in jail. Writer commented that some
of Zerelli's family appeared to be moving to New York and he
replied, yeah, they all married into the New York families.
He further stated that the police were trying to pin Hoffa's
murder on Tony Jackalone.

Mrs. Knohl also stated that her mother was questioned years

VICE-INTELLIGENCE DIVISION
MONTGOMERY COUNTY POLICE DEPARTMENT
CONTINUING INVESTIGATIONS REPORTS
SUBJECT/CASE REFERENCE: CARRAFA, Eugene Michael
DATE OBSERVATIONS/INVESTIGATION CONDUCTED/EXPENSES
in Brooklyn for possibly writing book; however it was an error
as the numbers she possessed were relative to lot and number
of pairs of pants she boxed in a garment house where she worked.
Mrs. Knohl further stated that she brought her down from
Brooklyn and got her an apartment in Rockville. Maryland
telephone directory lists one Jennie Saviano, 199 Rollins Ave.,
Rockville, Md., 770-6784; and it is noted that she is the only
Saviano in the book.

At approximately 1930 hours David P. Knohl called writer,
having returned home; however he could not furnish any infor-
mation. Knohl did say that this was a double shock for Mr.
Piccerelli as he burried his wife two weeks ago.

Listing obtained on D.C. dealer tag D 1546 to National Auto
Brokers Wholesale, Inc., rear of 5102 Georgia Avenue, N.W.,
Washington, D.C. (202) 723-4100 and (202) 291-6400.

Writer contacted MSP Trooper Burns reference the three classical
cars reported stolen by CARRAFA on 07-22-76 to 07-23-76, and
he stated that CARRAFA refused a polygraph three times; and
CARRAFA told him that the reason was that he was into other
things. Burns feels that the theft of these vehicles was
staged by CARRAFA as he showed Burns one point of entry and
a United States Fidelity & Guarantee Insurance Adjustor another
point of entry. Burns also related that there were no tire
marks in the dirt road that led to Gino's Classical Car's
garage. USF & G adjustor is one Sharon Kohler, (301) 547-3569.

Burns noted that a vacationing Pennsylvania police officer, on
07-21-76, two days before the theft, observed a blue GMC Tractor
with a yellow trailer operated by two negro males at the Union
76 Truck Stop in Colesville, Pa. The truck was being followed
by a negro male in a maroon Rolls Royce. The yellow trailer
was loaded with six classical cars, a white over black Cadillac,
a Mercedes, what appeared to be a Rolls Royce but could have
been the Packard and three other cars.

Lastly, Burns related that one Investigator Jones, Maryland
Motor Vehicle Administration, assisted CARRAFA in going into
business. Burns and Jones inspected Gino's numerous times and
found violations such as un-notarized titles, but Jones took no
enforcement action.

VICE-INTELLIGENCE DIVISION
MONTGOMERY COUNTY POLICE DEPARTMENT
CONTINUING INVESTIGATIONS REPORTS
SUBJECT/CASE REFERENCE: CARRAFA, Eugene Michael
DATE OBSERVATIONS/INVESTIGATION CONDUCTED/EXPENSES
08-07-76 Writer attempted to contact Guy Sullivan, and the subject who
answered stated that he has not seen him today. It was learned
that (301) 768-4331 is Timbuck Two, Rt. 2, Box 231, Hanover,
Md. 21076. From background noise it appears as if this is a
bar or truckstop.

It was also learned that CARRAFA, Piccerelli and Knohl became
acquainted in the Marine Corp. and they all worked as bouncers.

Listing obtained on Michigan MDH 710 and same on a 1975
Chevrolet, 2 dr. to Louis A. Piccerelli, 32402 Barclay Square,
Warren, Michigan.

Det. Arnold contacted and he furnished the following:
1. CARRAFA'S married daughter named Shoemaker,
(301) 977-9312
2. Sgt. Shelton, Long Beach, Calif. P.D., (213)
436-9811, was the complainant reference the
first stolen classical car that was sent to
Gino's.

Interview with Det. Smisek reveals that one William (Bill) C.
Heider, 3670 5th Avenue, Edgewater-Bowie Glendale, Md., (301)
261-4293 is a former partner of CARRAFA and J. Knohl.

Interview with Mrs. CARRAFA reveals that Jay Knohl's right
hand man is one Robert White, a gorilla type, of Brooklyn,
N.Y. Like Jay Knohl, White has a Md. driver's license and
lists David Knohl's address of 17929 Archwood Way, Olney, Md.

New York Detectives working this case are Al Santoro and
Al Siragusa, (212) 979-4355 or 979-4356, of NYCPD, Staten
Island area, 2320 Hylan Blvd., Staten Island, New York.

CARRAFA'S son-in-law is Stewart Luther Shoemaker, AKA Tinker,
W/M, 12-31-50; lives at CARRAFA'S home now; operates 74
Chev. truck, blue, Md. reg. K 52764.

Ralph's telephone number is (314) 831-7964. Bill Bogley called
Mrs. CARRAFA twice on 08-07-76 and offered his assistance; and
left the following numbers (301) 473-8562 and (301) 831-7580.

VICE-INTELLIGENCE DIVISION
MONTGOMERY COUNTY POLICE DEPARTMENT
CONTINUING INVESTIGATIONS REPORTS
SUBJECT/CASE REFERENCE: CARRAFA, Eugene Michael
DATE OBSERVATIONS/INVESTIGATION CONDUCTED/EXPENSES
Reliable source will secure any tag numbers visiting Archwood
Way address on 08-08, 08-09 and 08-10.

Telephone call received from Det. R. Smisek wherein Smisek
stated that Bill Bogley called him and stated that he would
give us a confidential statement with reference to Jay Knohl.
Bogley told Smisek that when he was in tax trouble ($100,000
plus) Knohl offered to pay all of the liens for a piece of the
action. Knohl also told Bogley that he sent a car when
unknown to a shredder in NYC.

Smisek related that Gino CARRAFA advertised the three cars that
he reported stolen in the August issue of Hemmings Motor News,
and Smisek stated that he felt that one of cars reported stolen
is in Lake George, New York; however he did not say why.

Information received from Chicago P.D., Homicide, that Janice
Mae Piccerelli was found dead on Rush St., Chicago, Ill. on
07-21-76. The case is being handled by Dets Schuler and
Grogman, Area 6 Homicide, (312) 744-8262.

Source advises that a female called Mrs. CARRAFA on 08-07-76,
approximately 1800 hours, identified herself as a maid of Jay
Knohls; and stated that Jay had been involved in an accident;
and he was in jail for the weekend for operating on an expired
license.

Source also advises that Pat Sherman, AKA Nutsy, was the
mental case/alcoholic that worked for CARRAFA, and Knohls'
insisted that CARRAFA get rid of him as he "knew too much".

Sherman lived above Gino's Classical Cars, Inc., and supposedly
went to Virginia; but he has not been heard from since.

Interview conducted with Mrs. CARRAFA, her sisters, and
daughters at 1430-1700 hours 08-07-76. Numerous personal
papers of CARRAFA'S secured, and one of them had the following
written on the back:
Romano's Funeral Home
3264 White Plains
Bronx, N.Y.
820 E. 214 Street
Bronx, N.Y.
Pisano
Joseph
654-2503

VICE-INTELLIGENCE DIVISION
MONTGOMERY COUNTY POLICE DEPARTMENT
CONTINUING INVESTIGATIONS REPORTS
SUBJECT/CASE REFERENCE: CARRAFA, Eugene Michael
DATE OBSERVATIONS/INVESTIGATION CONDUCTED/EXPENSES
08-08-76 Telephone interview with Det. Adorjian, Chicago P.D., Area 6,
Homicide, reference OD death of Janice Mae Piccerelli W/F 7-11-38
Det. Adorjian 900 N. Rush, I don't know if you've got this
information
Alban 900 N. Rush
Det. Adorjian Maryland Hotel, Apt. 1305, now they've got
quite a few dates here, I guess she checked in on the 15th
to the 21st date occurred, I don't know if she has been found
in the bathroom, one of the beat guys or uniform mean assigned
to DOA Maryland Hotel Apt. 1305, Investigation disclosed the
following: victim was found lying on right side in bathroom
on arrival. Victim was last seen Thursday, 15th July at 1100
hours. Reporting officers requested evaluation due to suspect
nature of death, crime lab in Area 6 Homicide requested, Crime
lab came, Area 6 on scene, Homicide transported to Henrode
and then transported to Cook County, Morgue, room was sealed
OK I'll read you the investigation of the
Primary stages of decomposition face, back and associated
discoloration with blistering and skin slippage, she was there
for awhile. Apparent accidental overdose. Photographs taken.
Identified by personal papers in victim's room. Manger of
hotel identified and interviewed. Nelson Berralli, Psychiatrist
interviewed also. Somebody notified by name of George Hanley
from Wilkesbury, Pa. Victim's ex-husband.

Reporting investigators were assigned this death investigation
such and such time, proceeded to scene, Rm. 1305, crime lab was
taking pictures and the victim was observed lying on her back
with her head in the bathroom and feet in hallway. It was
ascertained that she was lying first on her face on the bath-
room floor and prior to arrival of the police, she was turned
over for the purpose of examining the body for injuries. The
victim was observed to be wearing only a black pair of panties
and on the bathroom floor were various body fluids and decomposi-
tion states. I guess she was cooking there for awhile. The
living room of the apartment contained several dressers, a bed,
two end tables, chairs and a closet, window of apartment was
slightly open and on the nightstand was observed a bottle of

VICE-INTELLIGENCE DIVISION
MONTGOMERY COUNTY POLICE DEPARTMENT
CONTINUING INVESTIGATIONS REPORTS
SUBJECT/CASE REFERENCE: CARRAFA, Eugene Michael
DATE OBSERVATIONS/INVESTIGATION CONDUCTED/EXPENSES
VO with only one or two ounces in the bottle. Several pills
were noted on the table with the bottle. Two bottles of
prescription of 200 librium only six capsules were in the
bottle.

Interviewed the manager of the hotel indicated that he had
noticed an odor coming from victim's room and having had
previous experience of such contacted the engineer and they
went in. Not one of our better places it is right in the
Rush street area which is our swinging part of town. She
indicated last time she saw her was six days prior when she
left instructions for the maid not to clean her room until
Tuesday the 20th which is kind of strange. They don't
elaborate any more on that.

Alban that would be the 15th then if she was found the 21st.

Adorjian yeah and she doesn't want her room cleaned until
the following Tuesday OK. In the room were various hospital
bills indicating the victim had recently been hospitalized.
They were from Henroten and Northwestern Hospitals which are
in close proximity to the Maryland Hotel. They went to the
hospital, examined the body and nothing other than the
decomposition was noted. Went to the Henroten Hospital and
revealed victim was in fact patient of hospital, but failed
to show for next of kin purposes. Went to Northwestern
Hospital and interviewed Doctor Nelson Berrelli and indicated
victim was receiving psychiatric care and listed an ex-husband
whose name you've got.

Alban that is Louis Piccerelli

Adorjian no George E. Hanley

Alban George Hanley

Adorjian with an address of another address in here Dr.
record victim's father Melvin Bliffen. Door was locked on
the inside, 13th floor up, no fire escape. Due to fact all
the pills other than that, it is being classified as death
investigation waiting outcome of coroners examination and
inquest. Apparently, no foul play connected at this particu-
lar time unless we have some further information.

VICE-INTELLIGENCE DIVISION
MONTGOMERY COUNTY POLICE DEPARTMENT
CONTINUING INVESTIGATIONS REPORTS
SUBJECT/CASE REFERENCE: CARRAFA, Eugene Michael
DATE OBSERVATIONS/INVESTIGATION CONDUCTED/EXPENSES
Alban any fingerprints left, is it normal

Adorjian I don't know if they dusted for prints, to be
honest with you.

Alban yeah, cause
Adorjian Right off the top of my head I would have to tell
you know
Alban yeah, we could get copies out there. It is way out.

Adorjian going to blow the whistle because of her goofieness

Alban that could have been it, unless Piccerelli, Lou says
he is opening a place in Detroit, I don't know if he happens
to be an insurance recepiant. I don't know that at this point,
but we're trying to find out why Carrafa got hit. Initially
we think it was the classical cars you know, but then all of
a sudden they through us this damn curve and of course Lou
Piccerelli is an associate of all of them and then his wife
has Od and both Piccerelli and Knohls and Knohl has 19 busts
in N.Y.

Adorjian do you, do we have any idea when she came to this
city here, Chicago

Alban no I'm only into this thing for about two days. She
according to Mrs. Carrafa's family that she has been in the
racketts and dating racketteers in Chicago and of course
Piccerelli knows the Zerilli family pretty well in Detroit:,
and he knows all the heavy OC figures in Washington, D.C. area
and this Maryland suburb. Of course Jay Knohl has been
identified bt NYCPD Organized Crime as an unknown maybe a
pickup man for an unknown banker up there. He's got 19 busts
with numbers, but he is a little bit more than that, we have
a big timer down here that was involved with the Marvin Mandel
Governor of Maryland indictment and he had a tax lean of damn
near 1/2 million and this Knohl called him and said he would
bail him out if he could have a piece of the action, probably
infiltration of legitimate business.

VICE-INTELLIGENCE DIVISION
MONTGOMERY COUNTY POLICE DEPARTMENT
CONTINUING INVESTIGATIONS REPORTS
SUBJECT/CASE REFERENCE: CARRAFA, Eugene Michael
DATE OBSERVATIONS/INVESTIGATION CONDUCTED/EXPENSES
Source advises that CARRAFA'S brother arrived in Maryland
on 08-07-76 from Connecticut; same operating 75 Buick,
4dr. Sedan, green, Conn. reg. KE 9712; listed to Matthew
Carrafa, 271 Citizens Avenue, Waterbury, Connecticut.
Matthew Carrafa allegedly stated that if the police didn't
find his brothers murderer in sixty days, he would have
things taken care of.

08-08-76 1800 hrs. Telephone interview with Stanley Tashoff, Esq.
wherein Tashoff related the following:
1. incorporated Knohl & Carrafa about a year ago
2. Knohl & Carrafa in office Tuesday, 7-27-76 reference
B & E at Gino's Classic Cars and police wanted Carrafa
to take a polygraph
3. didn't admit to false report, but Tashoff says, "regardless
of my feelings on the subject which wouldn't make any
difference one way or the other", said place got broken
into on Friday
4. Knohl was cordial towards Gino; always cordial; asked
Tashoff to arrange with police to stop hasseling Gino
about the break-in
5. heard from Jay Knohl reference whether Carol Carrafa
was going to New York alone to identify body; asked
Tashoff to work something out where Knohl and brother
would make the identification
6. freezing proceeds or company Jay can sell business
tomorrow if he wants
7. do they both own an equal share in the business
"can't tell you that"
8. Mrs. Carrafa told me she owned 20%. "I told her I
thought she owned 20%" "doesn't really matter, Jay
owned 50%, I as trustee (Tashoff) owned other 50%
of that Gino had 20% and he could purchase the rest
at his option

VICE-INTELLIGENCE DIVISION
MONTGOMERY COUNTY POLICE DEPARTMENT
CONTINUING INVESTIGATIONS REPORTS
SUBJECT/CASE REFERENCE: CARRAFA, Eugene Michael
DATE OBSERVATIONS/INVESTIGATION CONDUCTED/EXPENSES
9. Why were cars titled in Gino's name Tashoff says
"they just title them in any way they want I don't
know why they were in his name. The business was run
in a slipshot way
10. I met Jay through Gino, Mike Grady whose father owned
Grady Motors in Bethesda later Bogley's where I
met Gino
11. Did Jay say where he got his money no
If you stereotyped Jay, what would you stereotype him
as? I won't answer that, I may have my own suspicions,
but I have no proof of it
13. "I told him he was out of his head to open a business
in Abingdon
14. Knows of Iandoli case
15. Tashoff says he doesn't know Piccerelli or Knohl's
brother, David; may have met David years ago
16. "I think Gino knew what he got in to, but you can't
do anything about it now."

Telephone interview with Lt. William F. Juliano, Crimes
Against Persons, New York City Police Dept., 2320 Hylan
Blvd., Staten Island, N.Y. 10306, (212) 979-4748 wherein he
stated that when his detectives went to question Jay Knohls
they were met by other detectives who had just arrested
Knohls for sodomizing two nine year old boys. It was further
learned that Knohls raped a young girl last year, and the
girl's mother is now Knohls' housekeeper.

08-09-76 It was also learned that Carrafa rented a flatbed truck on
07-21-76, capable of hauling three cars, for a trip to Chicago.

Al Cooley's, NFI