JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 10/6/201
Agency Information
AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: 180-10106-10011
RECORD SERIES: NUMBERED FILES
AGENCY FILENUMBER: 014138
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: HSCA
FROM: STEELE, CHARLES
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 04/13/1978
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS:
OSWALD, LEE, POST RUSSIAN PERIOD, POLITICAL AND
SUBVERSIVE
ACTIVITIES
DOCUMENT TYPE: SUMMARY
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/31/1996
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: Box 251.

Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#: NW
88326 Date: 2025

NW 88326 DocId:32261442 Page 1

014138

INVESTIGATION INTERVIEW SCHEDULE

1. Identifying Information:
Name Charles Steele
Address 2119 Selma St.
City/State New Orleans, LA
Date of Birth 11-5-43
Social Security 438-60-8716

Date 4-13-78
Place Residence
M or S M
Spouse
Children

2. Physical Description:
Height
Weight
Ethnic Group

Color Eyes
Hair
Special Characteristics

3. Personal History:
a. Present Employment: IBEW Local #130
Address 1806 Canal St - New Orleans, LA
Telephone

b. Criminal Record
1. Arrests
2. Convictions

4. Additional Personal Information:
a. Relative(s): Name
Address
b. Area frequented:
c. Remarks:

Investigator William Brown, JFK
Date 4/19/78

NW 88326 DocId:32261442 Page 2
Form #4-B

KENNEDY
SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS
NAME Charles Steele, Jr.
Date 4-13-78 Time 7 p.m.
Address 2119 Selma St.
Place Residence
New Orleans, LA
Interview: (Synopsis)

Charles Steele passed out Pro-Cuba leaflets with
LHO. Subject refused to answer questions concerning his
knowledge of LHO prior to passing out leaflets on Canal
St. He states he was inside of unemployment office on
Canal Street when he was approached by LHO and was
offered $5.00 to pass out leaflets. He accepted the
offer and after passing out the first batch, read the
leaflets, stopped, collected his money and left. The subject
said he didn't know the second male who was assisting,
describes him as, white male, 20, light brown hair, medium
height and build, and brown eyes. The subject refuses to
answer when asked if he saw LHO again.

Subject states he was not a member of any organiza-
tion during this period. He identified photos #5, Clay Shaw
and #57, LHO. The photo book supplied by the committee
is numbered in sequential order from 1-110 with #72/73
missing.

Subject requests copy of his Warren Commission
testimony.

Interviewer
(Signature)
William Brown
(Name)
Date Transcribed 4/21/78 by cs
(Initials)

NW 88326 DocId:32261442 Page 3
