Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10444
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995
Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 5

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 2

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).
Case#:NW 88326 Date: 2025

--- Page 2 ---

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

Date: 08/20/93
Page: 1

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10444
RECORDS SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA
FROM :
TO :

TITLE :

DATE : 09/19/77
PAGES : 5

SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
HORNBECK, JOHN

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/04/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :
Box 2.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

--- Page 3 ---

OFFICE OF THE CLERK
U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
PERSONAL LEAVE RECORD
1978
YEAR

Name of Employee: HORNBECK, John
Position Number:
Address:
Phone Number:
Position Title: Staff Counsel
Date of Appointment: 9-19-77
Prior Federal Service:
Years: Months:

CATEGORY | BALANCE BROUGHT FORWARD FROM PRECEDING YEAR | ACCRUED THIS MONTH | AVAILABLE THIS MONTH | USED THIS MONTH | BALANCE AT CLOSE OF MONTH
---|---|---|---|---|---
Annual Leave |  |  |  |  |
Sick Leave |  |  |  |  |

| JAN | FEB | MAR | APR | MAY | JUN | JUL | AUG | SEP | OCT | NOV | DEC | STEP
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---
DAY OF MONTH | 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 | EMPLOYEE INITIALS
Annual Leave |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
Sick Leave |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |

CERTIFIED CORRECT:
* 0.5 day annual leave
or
* 1.0 day annual leave
* 0.5 day sick leave
or
* 1.0 day sick leave
* 0.5 day administrative leave
or
* 1.0 day administrative leave
* 0.5 day unauthorized absence
or
* 1.0 day unauthorized absence
* 0.5 day leave without pay
or
* 1.0 day leave without pay

Employee's Signature:
Date:
Chief's Signature:
Date:
(if employee refuses to sign, state reason below.)

Approved:
Clerk of the House
Date:

This record will be forwarded to the Clerk of the House at the end of each calendar year, or in case of termination, along with the request for termination. Upon approval, the record will be filed in the employee's official personnel folder.

EXHIBIT

--- Page 4 ---

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter
or Ballpoint Pen)
U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last): John W. Hornbeck
Employee Social Security Number: 194-30-5931
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee: Assassinations

Effective Date: 7/11/78
Type of Action:
[ ] Appointment
[ ] Salary Adjustment
[ ] Title Change
[ ] Termination (At close of business on effective date)
[ ] Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending close of business) Specify Date:

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title:
Gross Annual Salary*:

* If employee is a civil service, annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. [ ] Standing Committee: Staff - [ ] Clerical or [ ] Professional.
2. [ ] Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. of 95th Congress.
3. [ ] Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number:
If applicable, Level:
Step:

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date: July 7, 1978
Signature of Authorizing Official:
(If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member)
LOUIS STOKES, CHAIRMAN
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
(Title If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:
Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code:
Monthly Annuity $: .00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee
Benefits
Payroll
(Revised: August 1, 1977)

--- Page 5 ---

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter
or Ballpoint Pen)
U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, DC 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official )

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action.

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last): John W. Hornbeck
Employee Social Security Number: 194 30 5931
Employing Office or Committee: Assassinations

Effective Date: 9/19/77
Type of Action:
[X] Appointment
[ ] Salary Adjustment
[ ] Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information)

Position Title: Staff Counsel
Gross Annual Salary: $34,000

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below)

1. [ ] Standing Committee: Staff-[ ] Clerical or [ ] Professional
2. [X] Special or Select Committee. Authority-H Res. 465 of 95th Congress.
3. [ ] Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below)

Position Number:
If applicable, Level:
Step:

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 USC 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date: September 19, 1977
Signature of Authorizing Official:
Louis Stokes
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
Chairman
(Title If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration

APPROVED:
Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code:
Monthly Annuity $: .00

via / Hambach
9/23

--- Page 6 ---

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF
RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the certification:

father nephew brother-in-law
mother niece sister-in-law
son husband stepfather
daughter wife stepmother
brother father-in-law stepbrother
sister mother-in-law stepsister
uncle son-in-law half-brother
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister

first cousin

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel file. If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget Office immediately of the change.

[X] I am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.
[ ] I am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.
(Please specify.)

Signature of Employee:
Date: 9-20-77

--- Page 7 ---

MEMORANDUM

TO: Thomas Howarth
Budget Officer

FROM: Charlie Mathews
Special Counsel

DATE: September 19, 1977

RE: John Hornbeck
194-30-5931

This is to advise you that John Hornbeck has accepted a position on the John F. Kennedy Task Force, effective September 19, 1977, at an annual salary of $34,000.

Please extend every possible assistance to Mr. Hornbeck.

Staff Counsel / JFK
