| + SR ee
180-10145-10285 - 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
TRANSMITTAL AND DOCUMENT RECEIPT - June 5, 1978 HSCA

FROM: Office of Legislative Counsel
TO: Mr. Robert Morrison
House Select Committee on Assassinations
3381 House Annex #2
Central Intelligence Agency Box 54
Room 7D35
Washington, D.C. 20505 Folder

THE DOCUMENTS LISTED HEREON ARE FORWARDED FOR:
INFORMATION
ACTION
RETENTION
LOAN

CONTROL NUMBER | DOC. DATE | SUBJECT (Unclassified preferred) | CLASS.
- | - | - | -
Sanitized Notes - Leslie Wiselman 3/13/78 of William Alexander Morgan S
Sanitized Notes - Beth Lichtenfels 5/12/78 of DeMohrenschildt S
Sanitized Notes - Bob Genxman 5/24/78 of Daniel A. Parsons S
Sanitized Notes - Leslie Wizelman of Herman Greenspun and Gordon McLendon S
Sanitized Notes of Jim Wolf of Deryabin file S
Sanitized Notes & Patricia Orr of David W. Ferrie S

THIS COPY IS NOT FOR RELEASE.

RECEIPT
SIGNATURE (acknowledging receipt of above documents)
DATE OF RECEIPT

FORM 3772B
10-76
RETURN TO OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
ROOM 7 D 35
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

1 - WHITE, RETURN COPY
2 - PINK, ADDRESSEE HOLD BACK
3 - CANARY, OLC HOLD BACK

10145-10285

---

SECRET
DDO
Leslie Wizelman
3/13/78

William Alexander Morgan

The Morgan File contains the following documents and information.
Information covering 1959-1973:

1- Cable dated March 24, 1959 stating that Morgan is staying at the Hotel Capri in Havana and is very close to Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo. Morgan hired Tony Beacon, Phila. Daily newsman, to handle publicity. POA request initiated, for Morgan, ay March.

2- Biographic Data Sheet: Alias "El Americano"
DOB: 4-19-28
POB: Cleveland.

3- Request for Cancellation of Approval - May 5, 1959
reason: Derogatory info. Cancelled May 6, 1959

Information Covering
J. Jan 1960 - 14 Aug 1974:

@ May 19, 1960 cable from the Director reporting that U.S. Army was in contact with BQS off March 18 re a plan. They're considering recruiting Morgan. U.S. Army inquired if CIA had any operational interest in Morgan and the group around him, mentioning Bob McCormack, Bob Brown, Tony Nichols, Morgan's bodyguards: Michael S. Colin, Jack Ossorio, Frank Emmick, Jerry Hemming, and June Cobb (Fidel's secretary). Hqs replied no operational interest. Cobb was from N.Y and working for Castro as a translator Since Sept, 1959.

@ 12 March 1960- Source stated that on 16 Feb 1960 he had Observed Morgan in Toledo, Ohio in company of Roberto Augustus Brown, Jr.; Toledo Police Dept

SECRET

---

Morgan
SECRET

@ March 22, 1960 cable reporting that they feel strongly that it would be a serious mistake for any U.S. govt agency to recruit Morgan for operational purposes. Morgan who reportedly under local cloud is perfectly capable of betraying U.S. or his own mother if it would advance his personal interests

G. memo, 29 March 1960 Subject: meeting with U.S. army officer to discuss Plan they are considering to recruit William Morgan. Army officer was told that the CIA had no operational interest in William Morgan and they had a bad impression of Morgan. The army officer felt that "successful recruitment of Morgan would be extremely worthwhile."

@ Oct 5, 1960 memo reporting that on 4 Oct 1960 Asst Chief Staff Intelligence (U.S. Army) FI staff member from the office of ACSI That major Carpenter was requesting a Secret writing system from SAB to be passed to Morgan. TSD was informed that WH/4 had made known objections to the ACSI on any use of Morgan approx. 6 Months ago and that the Branch position had not changed. "It was still felt that to have any dealings with Morgan was a mistake, and that ACSI was doing it over the strenuous objections of WH

SECRET

---

Morgan
SECRET

@ cable Oct 5, 1960 reporting that a secret writing system had been provided for Issuance to Morgan. "U.S. Army using Morgan inspite strenuous HQS recommendations to contrary."

> Background Info
Oct 21, 1960 - Morgan's arrest announced.

- Copy of the last Written statement made by William Alexander Morgan before his execution.

1) extract from a memo of conversation written by by the FI Departmental - Coordination Group re Discussion with Office of ACSI dated 9 May 1973.

Asst Chief Staff Intelligence (U.S. Army) said the OACSI files were incomplete as to the nature of Army contact / or use of Morgan. An ISR check confirmed that Morgan was not registered at any Ame but that he was connected in an undefined Manner to a registered Source of Army."

0- Info on Frank Emmick : Gus Kangos';

SECRET

---

Vol 3
D. Mohrenschildt
SECRET

disappeared on April 14, 1954, according to memo pres of Kardia of Salon, 4/10
J. Piperas Jaworked for him from Sept 6, 1953 - April 14, 1954. Left aboutati friend. Graydon Hartstice of Sallan Pemes Hereed -faction reporter friend - Elizabeth Cleveland, writes for

Marriage Recappersation says dob was May 5, 1914
Nardee 1914
alber Stillman. Personer for Finger Harris Co says files reveal
Maider JiB. May 5, 1919
was saleslady on #50.00 making a wick had been #300-600 a month as a designer Meubelly up. Millinery lept Hanger, Harson said m

sout her a Christmas and telling her they has a little hon on the side of a morint best and reward mail. He Amer Cimberry

SECRET

---

SECRET

Sund: - Rue Rrigeradaly Sam Siller, Igen Sachinin
Max E. Clark, Henry Rogaty
Col. Laurence Sulor (daughter of Cem's)
Lace McNaughtore

In the 1963 - Jim asked Judge Dunicel of be young man Caved help get his discharge changer - said he was from Sant world, had defected to Russia and had returned. Attempted but fould not reach Matter deapped.. Firing man. ? claims to have mit a high Russian official In Mexico City Ohikeyan?)

- Jim attempted to 400,000 from Raigaradsky to develop a camp which would develop commercial resources in Haiti

Rogerty claim Sm made to Mexico in early 1950's
Belonged to Petroleum Clin Salle
Gary Regin
sms de M&J to have been in at some time due to pictures he had seen
Yiys- savings account of Dallan 1280.60=1st Hat

SECRET

---

SECRET
agency
Bid 3/19/64, 3pages J. Gde my
Wood" Kahles - fred, puren Jovan

lems catered Haiti of tout card not passport mor Lift
LIED through Home Chito.
5. Baune
Interven if Bery Taylor
Jim came to have worked for State Dep in mid 1950's
Jole m
59-135
2.777

Mr. Im Bunce recalled conver w/ in which he stated he had been forced to Join the Communist party while using Cunna - alternative = death living Lov.

Mer Tom Sands. Manager of Bithin County Commis nover of Aspen Lumber and Supply is said there has never been ing organization known is Rengely Supply Co. at Rapen are at
Repost of James W. 3/14/64.

On 1/603. what Letter & aquainta he had been informed by FBI ther lite was hambers

interviuat au suit May the cuss of impresion Clane ha
SECRET

---

SECRET
princeps in Wilden Oil C. wj Ed. C had office in Republic Hat Back Blyk from Sept 3 154- May 28, 859
1639-40
Exily
"Children's Everine each found all by Sharple
Ms.

Source met HO in 1962. He had arrived at tim in middle of dinner but did not eat. After went to a hosese or showed a film covering nearly bildg Dallas entire trip thru Medici again.

did har tack le Lite or see Rim
Col. Oplos stated Sam Casually mix Some others acce trying to arrange a divorce for Maria mentioned Ret

Resume states he has special connections urses in Luba etc.
3d agency - FBI Report 30/44- Tatel-bim
7Bi fors dated 3/3/64
2/28/64
13-R
Juens's - Serge Obalovaly, restauranten in New Yank City
SECRET

---

SECRET
Russian Student Fund
314
006 - Sends of agency x 28/6/65- Philly
22/4/45- Phoen
Fol 4) 3rd- Ga 18/3/64 LA

# 100-17448 (freed) 100-32965
@brgdem 24/3/64 Philly
#105-146:105 - 10229 (field) Buissan Meani
#105-76 freed
100-329

26/3/44
100-32965. Bureau
# Phaenax 24/3/64
PX 100-2995 Вих
100-32965
New York 25/3/64 NY 100-10310,
New Orleans 25/3/64
105-21-o
105-2153f
100-32965- Bureau

@24/3/64 - DC-REN
Boston 24/3/64
105-11242
Віс
100-32965 Bic
State Doc. memo of Conver. Sub: Unet to by BM.
by BH.
Spate lista 21/61/6-4 18/41/64 from telegram
Part de
881- Phen
871

@ 9B1 doc 17/4/64 on CM 105-632 (field
100-32965-Buda
②AB/ de 21/4/64 Gd not
SECRET

---

SECRET
Export
731 (Jdm
731 NY 15/4/64 Card M. 100-10310 field 100, 32/6
7B1 Report - Philly 14/4/64 105-146105-102)
7B1 Report- Dallas 13/4/64 on dem 105-10766-fre
Видает
две
100-32965-Brin
931 Report by 2/4/14 B 100=10310 fixed-
Вид
100-32965 Bu

931. Report Chicago 1/4/6t Jilim 105-123 free
100-32965
13.
DC
1/4/64 cxg -10 #
ofter recited
Rem= tennis member of Petroville Dub-play
1963 - members of staff of ly business firm had attended a discussion gap in 1963 & CHI there, was day on Nov 4 1931 sentenced by tribune Correction at antwerp to 8 on preson in Chep of resistor a police officer - 8day or fine of 182 francs for Brunken driving for probation. alise of fasce

7B31 Rest 29/2/64- sem contact w/ Jedo Alekseevich parann - Somet Deplow Alekseevich member of Sout State Serving Force sence mid 1940's served in Cube
Marlyn Wilcox - Pan Am employeeed from Jean + Suga Sauel that 4M was a good friend of Loket McElharron top an

SECRET

---

SECRET
has made prior arrests for im at a Powers
call was made to Mrs Methac on the At 05307 may to confirm that Charles would be on DC duy in this meeting had been arranged cj On Mrs. Mather re - agency rep for 12 noon. tooted that B + I had called her that previo evening to conferm a 12:00 lunch bei. Mas Marlach was concerned that CIA appt w/ Army should not be working at cross purposes the had recieved authongation from ÁC BỈ 4 felt it would be impolite to a/draw. sencerey considered her the meet Charles at lunch pt of contactif Charles. wanted meeting Cate WH. desem then changed to afternoon Matlach believed that due to conflective instructions the has been placed in middle Matlack - Somestic Explortation Sc. Acsi Cary 4/4/77 Lace & - Dennes Berend planned to in Dallas re R₁) arch by J.E well get oct Evd office in other or later. Fallas. Jens was there at the time fixed ✓ try to make a connection. Sen just us and
Attachment from " Dallas Fo dated 4/4/77 from
SECRET

---

SECRET
Oakleaf a Salles subort reference the big 4/1/63- to by: Pholly - dans aat mention DC

lileg mention that Jom saw Jun by Times are 20/Dec/63 arrest of Russell McLarrez on chy of threatening JFL lived in Oakcliff" section Salloni

sprawling are where its lived. cript names. Sam Bielen thes meller you moest banker elle Russian wife interes Jos Bernard Jarrow. reference for JOH Som-employed by SEA for meesion to Yugosl Feb-1957-Dec 1957 signed marcon Anderson petition to have 7% of Comm. in for advancement of believed DC Asea on list. blacks. sm paid to have detailed photos of Harper defences at Corpus Christ.
1911-1920-45512
1920-1930- Poland
1930-1937 Belguim
1938 - USA
Rude de farin, Lizin - reledyday lived of som 314 Agrecy
I letters 1 from Jem to State 10/19/62 I to sim from State 10/22/62
7331 1941 42 44 45 47 48 fo 1957 Inst. Stole - 1757 Invest. Cunt Service
SECRET

---

SECRET

3rd Juney
Capy of 1942 CNI Invest. mis to exist.
mems to C from April 26 196
✓ 1943
Ser of Oper - Certicle writtin Le monteur 3/13/63 that sm was awarded $280,000 + a 10 yr option for concession on cl stating Dem claims be has done geolog work offshore and the Cratica for meek Comp. Pensula + mentioning this de m looked around the room

This shorelle Neve - Bayer to said M. Charles & said my connection wy this is, of course, confidential, worked the Men of Jerine Concexxcon дет шей aux love to develop a # of business interests ins in dem's bank which & would buy Haite meld. an office would enter into car financing сей some of the banks commercial paper. said M Charles made an unusual statement announcing that the 3rd partner in addition to Charles Sem. - a frenchman is alre on Monday in XY & a aak for sunday a meeting had been set up for to meet him on Monday. M.Charles banker to is hat said dem sought every availat handout in his effece
SECRET

---

SECRET
joint -
Col. Lawrence Inler (retired) in tending When Fed. application for employment 1- May 64 (?) emplayed by Sharmex SA Edificio Continental Mexico DF Mexico-ded work In Cuba.

On May 10 1964 Seven Bornfreed saw дает at Kyona Beach 35 miles outude of Pont au Prince
Who is Mrs. Finkelation? dispatch April 7 1969. dem phoned a cand from Pres. Francoes Auvali with which he said he could tramp anywhere wn the republic w/o prob.

April 21 1964- Letter to Mr. Le M. questioning whether we we (CA?) had hand in blackballing DCD documents
Memo Sub: - Sour report stating US wants; gout affecial w/o de M. Dource And apple to See UP Ja 20/ may 63 Sen Keding & Cong. Ragers according to "Mas
SECRET

---

Security
Алку 70
SECRET
Fle. Sem.
бери : 281947-
Mini Ludy - Bar Sevent
ру
Еу
били дотам. Курь
Grey CA co w/ Dem. - No
со
Ex 7:31 legent Co. Purner.
He's CA bahupetter
дет
have been Ce Connect
- desproved for 055 empl дису 8. 1967. Aug 13 1957. Contact
Дет Jeanne Sem
деали рем couns pray.
NCFE som bracker
from 1950-1951
Simitri S. Von M. Lepproved limited basis-hot a 11 1958 for explactation as contact for foreign intell do receive classified wits above confid. Tour of duty w/ 055 1942-45.
вам Аллаў by ты. 1941, 42, 45, 4157.
1940-42
Seeman considered to be prom suspected of expernage agent

mes - Leklumberger were Pribe незну кат name вилицу Стр. (Намет) дай унии
Oscar Castro, Mayaguen
UC Testimony - did not assoc w Lite after 4/19/63 when they left for NY Philly : SC.
SECRET

---

SECRET
made thru Anne Resor
DOD
Sale
Request for info on. Com my made by Allen
Interesting
- 1/21/ that Allenes externs in om carded w/ trep x info waved suggest the is pame - are portion of this possibly Allen & om were possibly.
vermimb in. De
im
? Strap Sept
urgram apris
NO A-153
12/22/63 Cont
эт
results of 2nd interview of Im also indicates es Mo lived of Millers in Jallas (anna Meller) Mr. Meller worked for Sangers Dept. Stone. ? Ruch Paire daughter of Com Avery Hyle, OSC-15745 леко шагн being considered for coverture. by Io sw. but did not receive security
16-8
message from [Port In Prince] Oct 19, 66 J + S left for Haiti aboard More One. S listed on crew as sailor wife as cash
Свеалал bed [[Haron officer]] 10 Oct plans. Con Sallows Left Harti of several months rent ed Chevalier Sands, Inc. 730 5th Cue by employ- Com an alleged nagé agent Baron Don Mayseri - head of facts + Films Motion souble aka Morgenskold
SECRET

---

SECRET
Memo 18/3/77 from Field O.
Sirkin meeting that a Cuban had reported Sirken ad- that he had met w/ a CIA agent named Maxres 505 N. Ervay Bldg approf Jurken said at ship & Lito in I month < JFK assass. common knowledge that the Clitt had offices there morris bik Bishop
aleas of Beigin m
DCO
SECRET

---

SECRET
314
3rd agency
20/12/23 Office of бес such. Os Antoon DM Dm Connections w/ CHO No A-406 11/4/603 from Port au Air Bin Haitian Staa Jugnam Sub. US Business man signs contract of Von't + Local Bank State Cungram State Airfram No G-22 2/2/4e1 from Cemilouben, alexandea no 119 27/1/61 from Alexana Sve from os dated 2/4/58, 4/8/58, 19/2/58 all rei Im. 761 do 30/11/63 info prov. by re: 40s x dem Florence McDon. State airgram A-295- 25/6/63 from Catonon: Sub: Egyptians reportedly mounting untill campaign Press Report 12/12/63 Stace For " in Black Africe 16/12/63 redem Curgram A-153 20/12/63 2nd interoren w/ J&G de M. FB) Doc 23/12/63 re J+G dem funther note arried dec 21 (no yo) Part 12th luggage not arried ( 1958 CIA mespected) this person stayed Kame at Calls The desired residence activity Jitizen-Makame hoyyid wont encourage speculation - ded not trust him. dem accrc w/ Mohammed peenes
SECRET

---

SECRET
DDO
Leslie Wizelman
Herman Greenspun.....
DUB-8127109
POB - Brooklyn, NY.
Third. Agency.
1- Justice Dept. report dated 9 June 1950. re Leland Robert Lervis / w/address et al. Neutrality Act
2- Navy Dept intel. Report dated 27 July 4tre Panama – Palistine Air Line, further information re

---

McLendon, Gordon
SECRET
1975 Review of file. McLendon classified as
LESILE
Doo-summary
Leslie Wizelman
5/8/78

---

5-12-78
Index - Star
IBM
-ref. #s - documents or feles
201 or operational actuities file
name grouping used for storage & retrieval
name grouping tables.
- alphabetical
- names from DPG correspondence according. criteria. terrorists, KGB, etc.
matringmic search
"Prend, - office assigns
manual file

---

David W. Ferrie File- DDO
201-835476
File opened 25 Jun 68
Contains 201 Personality Files Action Request form with band biographical data only!
Review of 201 on 5 Feb 75
notes: file opened "as part of.. Garrison case" monitored. because Garrison had been trying to implicate the agency.
DCD
# 191987
FOIA requests from Contains Bernard Tenstervald & Dan Rather.
Note from Day-

---

5/24/78 Memo Dec. 12, 1963
From: Deputy Director Plans
To: Duresta, FII; attention: Mr. S.J. Papich
Subject: Pater Deryalin's Comments in Kennely
Abenay Does not specifically inverse conclusions.
Did KGB and LHO.
thisi & LHO on hiscaninifiatic assassinate JFK?
(F) strengthens Debaulle's backerstrip.
WAS MOP low-level informer for 12613 after she met LHO inside Russia?
5 -party affiliation in Russia?
of Komsomol? - would they expl her if she tried to trand outside U.SS.R- fot noulled, KGB interfernted to bifer which offices was she
ofter musings. Did they try to disserank her from hers to many times did overlying freign?
Foreign Affairs ministry? for view who present at marriage. how registered who chose Minsk; what friends. invited to police stations?
- zun in U.S.S.R? Permission?
- Financial time?
- was ist held her in USSR. bug tiging there? way 2
SECRET

---

5/24/78
Memo 12/12/63.
Sby: Deryabin
72m: Deryabin File:
Questionnaire for Maurice Oswald?
CI/Holmes: cestay.
BEQ
Q: Why MOP not officially adopted by Medved?
Q: who made here to mothers! pet grandpaunts.
Q: W Steph
Q: What made more to desinga? Why quit job on one
Q: who cheese Minch? Why LHO's salary so high means outside I have - tok. Las so low?
Moscow Trip - July 16%.
- is the ?
Q: did she have permission- Fa trip? was, Taccomplished? What did they do?
Q: visit to U.S. Enalmasy was surralled. Which reprimands?
Klankow Trip full-st. Auto
1: how travelled
-must have known it
Did she see Mikhailoo there?
LHD ties to Burlow-untranchin Minsk whoty Prusakor.?".

---

1/24/78.
SECRET
- Domestic Contact Division unfounded allegations of terrinest schoolat Minsk. (cistence of school theright
A trial of Bandia - assassin in West bermany). dated 6/16/64. offermand a
Volume I
201-743808
File opened 1/27/64. [stepfath start
A.S. Medvedere is Biodata on FBI report JEH letter to DCIA nagm wrong ME]
4/7/51 suly: Vladimir Morkovin
Dec. 2, 1963 memo:
3 items; Dept. of State Report dated July 11, 1961.
SOONI Report dated Dec. 18, 1961.
Immigration File of MOP contains 12/2/63
* list of the itens
17
Born 1941; July married 30 April 1951
FBI report of Hosty 6/22/67 sibj = Lydia DymiTRUK.
W.C. Doc. #361 - Birnunghe well to publicados, Relatives

---

Certificate for people going abroad:
- why is family listed.
Liste of names of Assoicates

---

5/24/78
SECRET
Vol II
201-743508
FBI Report 2/17/64
dictated 2/18/64

DL 100-10461
Boguslan + Hatman; (+39 +-deg.)
FBI reports indexed under LHO.
Vol

---

10/24/78 Q's fu MOP.
SECRET
list of MOP's family.
Militay Service Booklet
no
по
assived August 59 in Minsk, why Lilet (MSB) until 22 Sept?
rogenny bilet until 28 Oct. Why does cooked not reflect Komsomol meluship?
§10 Why moved Aug4 from Frunzonsking Rayon to Aug 9 - Leninshy Rayon when planning to moved to U.S.A. ASAP. had started gething chruments for avisa?
Birth Certificate
how she in B.Canotanged copies. What happend to original
Work Bodl.
July 28, 1961 - reflects promotion at hospital. Why, if about plans ty). If she was being barrassed to leave USS.R.
Track Union Botht:
- she expected to elegant a wife. on non-phot Imigrand states.
Did she is ped to return La passpal valid 1/11/62 +01/11/64 w/in years?
-hore was she informed of permission to leave S.U.?
CISPET

---

SECRET
code usil professionally necessary but dangworks is
May 21,63 - sem dreps into Say M. Charles has returned to Haiti & in persorialy being considered as next president
FBI Mence from Hoover To Kaunte "Reference to you 8/23/64 Cutter dated 2/12/64 wheren you request a full-scale intell-type investig.. concerning Gigdem In de Ms. wew of the present resides of the their preveoses travels thre Haiti * mes - Central Amerce you may. the CIA ré - Date Reports prepared by IBI Report of W. James Wood J. Have McMenamin Jame S. Weir James 7. Morrissey Warren de Buey James C Kennedy Harry H Whidbee J. S. Weir J.K. Winebeng John McHugh Rob. Baker dim. 2/28/44 ✓ " 3/1/64 3/2/64 3/3/64 " desire to Office Dalles Server Houston ДС New Orleans San Antonio CA Houston Philly Jan Fran Fran зан. Дедо 3/4/64 L. Russell Hashman 3/6 Denver
SECRET

---

James Ferncy
Kot Maffat
3/12/
3/10
Walter Ragn
SECRET
Dew Har York
New Haven
Chicago
Heaney
2/28
лу
R. B Kellog
3/14
Meani
James wood
Dallas
丛
Cept # CS 3/449, 717 tips kept. Noform
шен
sub teel. Activ of al-Nasis Trading Co.
Jin July 1960- profits of Alwer being transferred to a special goat fund for financing clandestine operations
WAR Govt used company for "illegal" transactions to such as trade up France on base of commesse fee of 10%
SoCal. Mohammed Shania der ་། reported to have engaged cutzel der of Co ap previous assight as manager of Niel Com.. mems 7/30/42 from Exsign Horrigan to Com Vanderbilt office of strategie Senica met dim said he was rep an Irish felm es distribucting films taken under the auspices of test gaur during Span. Was His uncles place was raided shortly there after at suggestion of a friend of me Jorend many films of a pro nazi nature which are intended to show force effectiveness of German army.
SECRET

---

SECRET
26 1947
office of Strategic Services so is empass for us to their you definch deferat for another weer or 2. In the meantime, if you decide to accept the muf. offer, please adve w where joue сат Le reached"
Wm Vanderbilt
June 23, 1942- letter to land. Offering service w/ resume mention "new + enterprise in mer exciting rr business

resumé - Polish new Official Press age! Sout states he was foxcen & collaborated "Polish 141- Collab w Sept of Em Info + French Letter May 25, 1942 to Under. Stating Mor Kwarzewski Chy d'affaces of Poland in DC
wife on May 19 1942 - from Robert Alcorn to Vander.. "Here is anotheron-cetezer who looks like good material"
Note: Application-035
w. Carmichael
Charter ref-
Major Bishop
Mas Hulle
A. Parsandse
- 630 5 Cive NY
179 9.79ue st
RR
1148 See Que
2. Sutton P.
Helped french commence Info Service Demarks may go wy Cockiffelle Commn" wp
SECRET

---

SECRET
Voil Nukamad Faid
GAM was aytacy 1/12/611 соклесно represents Sen. Commerce present at Mtb and introduced lite to vent Jallas - 7B1 Gr de M. 1/3/67 Sallas He Ms case contact w/ Haiti in Wlodgi said to have connections of Castro сер fo Haveg. C of Kiwa to growes Balicki - polic commersent rep un (dem) has also been on clase terms w Haiti Jubject 3id agency. Le M 2/2/66 Hait азму Bde M. 2/2/66 Haiti Jel #IK27502207. mailing Cus
mes E. Melewak 232 Abercan Rd London Sw Eng. RM Aglehart 3824 Swern Bed Dallas
M/M G бжая.
M/M PO Box 96 ро
лиент luva wold 36 Badger K Medford kan
SECRET

---

4059 4272
SECRET
Ve Don Source ax жму 663. an had pile Convers is 14 Contas auj us 215 if suvalier learned дние. new of would cast his wife's life. виро reputure taken of •fer seg.. of HSCA invest. མ, Chan FAA charge made in WFAA WERA - T He was employed. by Cint in 1962. knew Life. B - WFAA TV-aduced that Cuban had reported that he has met of a at agent named Marris Deshop a in the 505 N. Erway Building approx a month before assor at that time the Cast agent had affered # to Cito to CA kier green said it was common knowledge that CIA had officia 505 N. Erway at time of ass Bechap Sealy = alan for used by service in Salas as avest employ in 1954 continuously repch-19-72-73. when served at DED Reedgts. couting Record Sheet - refers to Sem. former contact of the Fallas Office on whom there is a headgto. file. as a lity that NY office wanted Copy of security check in Dem.
SECRET

---

Sim had been in DC report stating. to Dem acknowledged to the WC that during with he worked to us on behalf by French relligencer а-даст which perhaps time of na known at the our contact by her in DC+NY. Obviously Im's acknowledgement of Ris appliation w/ Fench Intells his friend- thip w/ " of Haiti indicate the Recessity - for reviewing our friendship of them Shoals que meet w/ my of the request interview: What should we do. LLL shows up Couple? Please adus Company of Ides Could have made trip to DC Nov. 13-1927. J015- Erven Werner - Visiting m Harts C Miss Vera Somcott Byonge. Edwen Themilla Write for Millwriter Ma Refe Lat. Eve Part John Hall - Classmate of Gdem Der Pagan - Disited Hart w/ J. Hall-sem
SECRET

---

gid agency
SECRET
HBBI Report Serge E. Mulla
2-28-42 file 101-21
3-9-4