180-10144-10240

LOU CONIEN.
WERBEll
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

NOTES
Box 30
Flar 62
Doc. I
Don Newscui] interview
8/29 / 10:00
letter ✓
Charles R. Roistade (ps.)
present position: CI staff
C/aps cord
east Asia & franch

163. Việt nam dep cho
sp. ops. branch.
#Q-[N. UN/NI desk.
to
Да
на
27.03
CAMBODIA
[DCOS [ua] 68-70
70
13-5
(Thailand) DCG/ext, aps.
71-72 5 for narcotics
Art
+ dangerous drugs
then to "WARcog" HQ liaison

on dorings
7/83-7/75
→sensitive
19757 CI staff / SOB
CI MATTERS.
31pj
10144-10240

--- Page 2 ---

And
These
але
Dan Neiscuir's
initals
N
(2)
expertise in East Asian
expertise
inhouse investigations:
I never did
any of them.
did work on
an
"Oswald Task Force"
late 90 10/75.
FOIA.
20v 3 suits
info had to be
&
C/CIS, decided to have
processed
aps off do review.
03
DN one as well as a
primary contact @
2 investigators from ssc.
which
same was going on at
time
"much the same as Russ
Holmes is doing right now"
no research & analysis
that he was aware of
CI/SIG - heard of>
apparently component

--- Page 3 ---

3.
11
under angleton before
(N) 03 joined staff
never clear what did
held tightly
ampament"
compartmented
may have dealt is cooks
+
-
there is still
pher's
a "repidural branch "in
that
CISIG
"D"
was part of OR+A.
was (is) component
that deals @ NYA - all
matters
station "close support
"team" monitored commo
per
NSA
requirements
on
of had responsiblility
Agencies respond
to NSA requirments
seperate from CIS.
TSD⇒
support for tech.
ops also seperate.
i

--- Page 4 ---

4.
:
was not "Special Intelligence"
was "Investigations:
if SIG worked codes
would have had high
level liaison @D.
+31G
м
may
have been
tasked by D for things
that required Cl knowledge
pure supposition.
Ray Rocco or Russ Holmes
would know best about
SIG.
516
SIG would have opened
201 cause LHO defector.
only 2 peices of paper
Agency originated prior
ason.
a year to open? doesn't
musual he
know if
59 on first hearing. Could
phave been a soft file

--- Page 5 ---

IX3W
5.)
but never heard of
consolidation of files
when Rocky commission
looked into it
Micktenbaugh "hits a note"
but count recall.
cann't
Didn't know annie wrote
"History."
only photo he recalls
in file is mmm.
ID's CE237.
docan't recall series
Bustos doesn't ring a bell
Robert Wall
Bill Perkins
Os.
TASK
[Robert Litviak] (ph/FORCE.
03
about 15 on 20
гол
FOIA New worked on
FOIA sanitization
BREA (ph).
LEN
Tony Gelia (ph) Sileo
[KEN JASPER] 03
Paul Hartman - ROCCA's. "howcho" on
Investigation
3/12√

--- Page 6 ---

6.)
material wheld from
ssc
glout 10 document
but were shown to them
were glout
on specific request
never ds:
agents.
sources +
identity of
met Rocca twice - can't
RECAll when.
-
sat
IN ON
Abs Ċ seSSIONS @ him.
never have been able to
locate deliniation
has
тел
heard of it
af gree
but "from his lips."
Rocca's memos: interesting
theory in sense Castro
was trying to wandered
-
give us
But
why Rocca, waited tem
years to advance it.
Swenson: no Bells.
Piccolo - okay memory
sometimes fuzzy
