JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: 180-10093-10162
RECORD SERIES: NUMBERED FILES
AGENCY FILENUMBER: 001304

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA
FROM: MORIARTY, JACK
TO: FENTON, CLIFFORD
TITLE: PETER CARROLL GLYNN, JR.
DATE: 04/25/1977
PAGES: 14
SUBJECTS:
PRO-CASTRO CUBANS
GLYNN, PETER CARROLL
DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 1C
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/18/1997
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: Includes letter of transmittal. Box 27.

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#: NW 88326

v9.1

---

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN
RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C.
SAMUEL L. DEVINE, OHIO
JOHN B. ANDERSON, ILL.
STEWART B. MCKINNEY, CONN.
CHARLES THONE, NEBR.
ROBERT W. EDGAR, PA.
WALTER E. FAUNTROY, D.C.
YVONNE BRATHWAITE BURKE, CALIF.
CHRISTOPHER J. DODD, CONN.
HAROLD E. FORD, TENN.
FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND.

Select Committee on Assassinations
U.S. House of Representatives
3342 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
WASHINGTON. D.C. 20515
(202) 225-4624

MEMORANDUM

TO: Clifford A. Fenton, Jr.
FROM: Jack Moriarty
RE: Peter Carroll Glynn, Jr.
DATE: April 25, 1977

Pursuant to an earlier phone contact, I interviewed Mr. Glynn on his job at 4301 Suitland Road, Suitland, Maryland at 2:35 p.m. Friday, April 22, 1977. Subject is employed as an Intelligence Analyst by NOSIC (Naval Oceanic Surveillance Information Center) 763-2258 and resides at 107 Howard Street, Dumfries, Virginia, 221-8748.

He was serving with the U.S. Army on 11-22-63 assigned to Fort Walters, Mineral Wells, Texas as a radio technician and as such regularly monitored messages between Mexico and Cuba. As a result, he overheard comments in the sphere which were adverse to the newly assassinated President and were upsetting to him. Although he doesn't recall the exact dialogue, the gist concerned the humor found by the Cubans and Mexicans appraising this murder as being done by his own people and yet suspecting foreigners like themselves.

Consequently, it has occurred to Glynn that we may benefit by causing a thorough check to be made of the ASA (Army Security Agency) who Glynn believes recorded all such messages usually in tape form-and stored same. He also prepared dossier of which he gave me the original and one copy.

He goes on to say their mission at Fort Walters was labeled a training mission and, as such, was comprehensive enough to encompass the recording of all such collateral messages. Additionally, he recalls the Mexican sending station used the name of "Chihuahua."

JM/rlm
NO ARMY DECLASSIFICATION ACTIVITY
OBJECTION TO DECLASSIFICATION
REQUIRES CONCURRENCE OF

---

STATEMENT.

FROM: MR. PETER CARROLL GLYNN, JR.
107 HOWARD STREET
DUMFRIES, VIRGINIA 22026 TEL 703 221-8748

WORK: DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY (NOSIC)
4301 SUITLAND ROAD, SUITLAND, MARYLAND. 20390 TEL 202 763-2258 OR 59

SSN: 022-30-2275
SERVICE NUMBER RA 11 396 679

TO: MR. MORIARTY
INVESTIGATIVE REPRESENTATIVE
FOR ASSASSINATION COMMITTEE.

SUBJ: ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY.

ENCL: (1) DD398, DD FORM 1584, AND OPNAV FORM 5510-2.
(2) SPECIAL ORDERS NO 175 OF 22 AUG 1972.
(3) DD 214.

1. ENCLOSURES 1 THROUGH 3 IS FORWARDED HEREWITH TO VALIDATE MY WHEREABOUTS BEFORE, DURING, AND AFTER SUBJECT INCIDENT AND POSSIBLY SAVING THE ASSASSINATIONS INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE ADDITIONAL VALIDATION STEPS.

2. DURING SUBJECT INCIDENT I WAS STATIONED AT THE 330TH ASA COMPANY (A) OF THE 303RD ASA BN (CORPS) USASA, LOCATED AT FORT WALTERS, MINERAL WELLS, TEXAS. THE COMMANDING OFFICER AT THAT TIME WAS CHARLES R. GINN, CAPT, AIS.

OUR MISSION, IF I REMEMBER CORRECTLY, WAS LABELED AS A "TRAINING MISSION". I PERSONALLY BELIEVE THERE MAY BE A REMOTE POSSIBILITY DATA OBTAINED FROM THIS MISSION BEFORE, DURING, AND AFTER SUBJECT INCIDENT, MAY POSSIBLY BE OF VALUE TO THE INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE.

3. SUGGESTIONS:

A. I SUGGEST REPRESENTATIVES OF YOUR COMMITTEE CONTACT PERSONNEL CONCERNED, LOCATED AT "US ARMY SECURITY AGENCY (ASA)" HEADQUARTERS, ARLINGTON HALL STATION, ARLINGTON, VIRGINIA AS TO WHAT THIS MISSION WAS, ITS DATA STORAGE LOCATION (IF ANY), AND POSSIBLY DATA ANALYSIS EVALUATION RESULTS.

B. IF THIS DATA IS AVAILABLE I SUGGEST IT BE RESEARCHED BEFORE, DURING, AND AFTER SUBJECT INCIDENT BY YOUR INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE.

C. I ADDITIONALLY SUGGEST A SIMILAR INVESTIGATION BE CONDUCTED FOR DATA OBTAINED AT HOMESTEAD AIR FORCE BASE (FLORIDA) BEFORE, DURING, AND AFTER SUBJECT INCIDENT.

D. FINALLY, I SUGGEST SIMILAR INVESTIGATION(S) BE CONDUCTED FOR ANY OTHER KNOWN SITE BEFORE, DURING, AND AFTER SUBJECT INCIDENT.

4. I MUST APOLOGIZE FOR BEING EXTREMELY VAGUE IN REFERENCE TO MY WORK WITH THE ARMY SECURITY AGENCY, BUT I BELIEVE WHAT HAS BEEN SURFACED WITHIN THIS "STATEMENT" MAY POSSIBLY BRANCH YOUR INVESTIGATION INTO NEW AND HOPEFULLY MORE RESOURCEFUL AREAS.

IF I CAN BE OF ANY ADDITIONAL ASSISTANCE, PLEASE FEEL FREE TO CONTACT ME AT ANY TIME AT HOME OR AT WORK. I PRAY TO THE LORD THIS INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE UNVEILS ALL NECESSARY INFORMATION AND CLOSES THIS CASE AND SIMILAR CASES AS SOON AS POSSIBLE.

VERY RESP

22 APRIL 77

NO ARMY DECLASSIFICATION ACTIVITY
OBJECTION TO DECLASSIFICATION
REQUIRES CONCURRENCE OF

---

STATEMENT OF PERSONAL HISTORY

INSTRUCTIONS: Read the certification at the end of this questionnaire before entering the required data. Print or type all answers.
All questions and statements must be completed. If the answer is "none," so state. Do not misstate or omit material
fact since the statements made herein are subject to verification. If more space is needed, use the Remarks section, item 20, and
attach additional sheets if necessary. The information entered hereon is for official use only and will be maintained in confidence.

1. LAST NAME FIRST NAME MIDDLE NAME
Glynn, Peter Carroll, Jr.

2. ALIAS (S), NICKNAME(S), OR CHANGES IN NAME (Other than by marriage)
NONE

3. PERMANENT MAILING ADDRESS
107 Howard St., Dumfries, Va. 22026

4. DATE OF BIRTH (Day, month, year)
05 March 1940

5. PLACE OF BIRTH (City, County, State, and Country)
Fall River, Bristol, Mass. U.S.A.

6. HEIGHT
5 FT 8 IN

7. WEIGHT
184

8. COLOR OF EYES
Hazel

9. COLOR OF HAIR
Gray

10. PLACE CERTIFICATE RECORDED
Fall River, Massachusetts.

11. SCARS, PHYSICAL DEFECTS, DISTINGUISHING MARKS
Scar, left wrist, 3½ inches long

12. DO YOU HAVE A HISTORY OF MENTAL OR NERVOUS DISORDERS: ☐ YES ☒ NO ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN ADDICTED TO THE USE OF HABIT FORMING DRUGS SUCH AS
ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN A CHRONIC USER TO EXCESS OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES? ☐ YES ☐ NO
NARCOTICS OR BARBITURATES? ☐ YES ☐ NO
IF THE ANSWER TO ANY OF THE ABOVE IS "YES" EXPLAIN IN ITEM 20

13. U. S. CITIZEN
NATIVE ☒ YES ☐ NO ALIEN REGISTRATION NO. NATIVE COUNTRY DATE AND PORT OF ENTRY
IF NATURALIZED, CERTIFICATE NO.
IF DERIVED PARENTS CERTIFICATE NO(S). DATE PLACE, AND COURT

14. MILITARY SERVICE
ARE YOU PRESENTLY ON ACTIVE DUTY IN THE U. S. ARMED FORCES DRAWING FULL PAY ☐ YES ☐ NO IF "YES" COMPLETE THE FOLLOWING:
GRADE AND SERVICE NO. SERVICE AND COMPONENT ORGANIZATION AND STATION
DATE CURRENT ACTIVE
SERVICE STARTED

ARE YOU PRESENTLY A MEMBER OF A U. S. RESERVE OR NATIONAL GUARD ORGANIZATION? ☐ YES ☐ NO IF "YES" COMPLETE THE FOLLOWING:
ORGANIZATION AND STATION OR UNIT AND LOCATION GRADE AND SERVICE NO. SERVICE AND COMPONENT

HAVE YOU PREVIOUSLY SERVED TOURS OF EXTENDED ACTIVE DUTY, DRAWING FULL PAY, FROM WHICH YOU WERE DISCHARGED OR SEPARATED TO CIVILIAN STATUS: ☐ YES ☐ NO
COMPLETE THE FOLLOWING:
TYPE DISCHARGES OR SEPARATIONS-GRADE AND SERVICE NO.
COUNTRY SERVICE COMPONENT FROM (Date) TO (Date)

15. EDUCATION (Account for all civilian schools and military academies. Do not include service schools)
NAME AND LOCATION OF SCHOOL GRADUATE DEGREE
TD- AGATH AND YEAR
N/C N/C N/C

16. FAMILY (List in order given, parents, spouse, guardians, stepparents, foster parents, parents-in-law, former spouse(s) (if divorced give date
and place), children, brothers and sisters, even though deceased. Include any others you resided with or with whom a close relationship
existed or exists. If the person is not a U. S. citizen by birth, give date and port of entry, alien registration number, naturalization certificate
number and place of issuance.)
RELATION AND NAME DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH PRESENT ADDRESS IF LIVING U.S. CITIZEN
FATHER Peter Carroll Glynn N/C N/C ☐
MOTHER Margaret Mary McMahon N/C N/C ☐
(maiden name)
WIFE Betty Marie Glynn 23 December 1943 107 Howard St. ☒
Hubbard, Texas. Dumfries, Virginia 22191
SON Jana Michael Glynn 14 January 1938 505 Hillsboro Drive ☒
Carolyn L. Cashenan Silver Spring, MI. Falls Church, Virginia.
DAUGHTER Christine Marie Glynn 21 October 1966 107 Howard St. ☒
Falls Church, Virginia. Dumfries, Virginia 22191
SISTER Betty Harle Speer 107 Howard St. ☒
(wife's step-brother) 20 January 1970 Dumfries, Virginia 22191
MOTHER-IN-LAW Lin Speer N/C N/C ☐

DD FORM 398
REPLACES EDITION OF
1 MAY 53 WHICH MAY BE USED.

Exception to Standard Form 86
Approved by Bureau of the Budget 1060

---

OTHER RELATIVES AND ALIEN FRIENDS LIVING IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES (List grandparents, first cousins, aunts, uncles,
brothers and sisters-in-law, and other persons with whom a close relationship existed or exists)
RELATIONSHIP AND NAME DATES AGE OCCUPATION ADDRESS CITIZENSHIP
TO-
N/C

FOREIGN TRAVEL (Other than as a direct result of United States military duties)
COUNTRY VISITED PURPOSE OF TRAVEL
N/C

EMPLOYMENT (Show every employment you have had and all periods of unemployment)
MONTH AND YEAR NAME AND ADDRESS OF EMPLOYER NAME OF IMMEDIATE REASON FOR LEAVES.
FROM TO SUPERVISOR
30SEPT70 CURRENT (NOSIC) NAVAL OCEAN SURV INFO CENTER Mr Donald Noble
4301 SUITLAND RD.,SUITLAND.MD.20390
JULY 1965 30SEP70 (NIPSSA) "B" BLDG RM 50, ARLINGTON Mr Donald Noble MASS TRANSFER
HALL, STA, ARLINGTON, VA. NIPSSA TO NOSIC

(((((SEE SUPPLEMENT)))))

DID ANY OF THE ABOVE EMPLOYMENTS REQUIRE A SECURITY CLEARANCE? ☒ YES ☐ NO DO YOU HAVE
ANY FOREIGN PROPERTY OR BUSINESS CONNECTIONS, OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN EMPLOYED BY A FOREIGN
GOVERNMENT, FIRM, OR AGENCY? ☐ YES ☒ NO HAVE YOU EVER BEEN REFUSED BOND? ☐ YES ☒ NO
IF THE ANSWER TO ANY OF THE ABOVE IS "YES," EXPLAIN IN ITEM 20.

SOCIAL SECURITY NO.
022-30-2275

CREDIT AND CHARACTER REFERENCES (Do not include relatives, former employers, or persons living outside the
United States or its Territories.
NAME YEARS STREET AND NUMBER CITY STATE OR
(Business address preferred) KNOWN TERRITORY
Virginia Investment Co Inc 74-74 4600 Lee Hwy Arlington Va 22207
John Hancock Life Ins Co. 50-75 PO BOX 236 (ATTN MR MARGULIES) Falls Church Va 22046
Virginia National Bank 71-74 PO BOX 1359. Norfolk Va 23501
Mr&Mrs Lawson Pilkinton 71-79 107 Howard Street Dumfries Va 22026
Mr&Mrs Robert Lutes 71-79 15110 Concord Drive (DaleCity) Woodbridge Va 22191
Mr&Mrs Carl Haller 69-75 3921 North Forestdale (DaleCity) Woodbridge Va 22191
Mr&Mrs Kenneth Malzi 69-74 4517 Weyburn Drive Annandale Va 22003
Mr. Sidney 64-74 801 Karon Ct NO 102 Laurel 20810

---

STATEMENT OF PERSONAL HISTORY

INSTRUCTIONS: Read the certification at the end of this questionnaire before entering the required data. Print or type all answers.
All questions and statements must be completed. If the answer is "None," so state. Do not misstate or omit material
fact since the statements made herein are subject to verification. If more space is needed, use the Remarks section, item 20, and
attach additional sheets if necessary. The information entered hereon is for official use only and will be maintained in confidence.

11. RESIDENCES FROM 18TH BIRTHDAY
STREET AND NUMBER CITY STATE COUNTRY
APRIL 74 PRESENT 107 Howard Street Dumfries Virginia 22026
MAY 69 APRIL 74 3922 North Forestdale Avenue (Dale City) Woodbridge Virginia 22191

(((((SEE SUPPLEMENT)))))

15. PAST AND/OR PRESENT MEMBERSHIP ORGANIZATIONS
NAME AND ADDRESS TYPE MEMBERSHIP OFFICE HELD
(Social, fraternal, professional, etc.)
American Legion, POST 139 SOCIAL MEMBER
Wilson Blvd, Arlington, Va. Jan 1959 Dec 74
American Legion, POST 162 SOCIAL MEMBER
Lorton, Virginia (STREET UNK) Dec 1974 PRESENT

17. ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN A MEMBER OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY U. S. A., OR ANY COMMUNIST ORGANIZATION ANYWHERE? ☐ YES ☒ NO
ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN A MEMBER OF A FASCIST ORGANIZATION? ☐ YES ☒ NO

ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN A MEMBER OF ANY ORGANIZATION, ASSOCIATION, MOVEMENT, GROUP OR COMBINATION OF PERSONS WHICH ADVOCATES THE
OVERTHROW OF OUR CONSTITUTIONAL FORM OF GOVERNMENT, OR WHICH HAS ADOPTED THE POLICY OF ADVOCATING OR APPROVING THE COMMISSION OF ACTS OF FORCE
OR VIOLENCE TO DENY OTHER PERSONS THEIR RIGHTS UNDER THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES, OR WHICH SEEKS TO ALTER THE FORM OF GOVERNMENT OF
THE UNITED STATES BY UNCONSTITUTIONAL MEANS? ☐ YES ☒ NO

ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN AFFILIATED OR ASSOCIATED WITH ANY ORGANIZATION OF THE TYPE DESCRIBED ABOVE AS AN AGENT OFFICIAL OR EMPLOYEE? ☐ YES ☒ NO
ARE YOU NOW ASSOCIATING WITH, OR HAVE YOU ASSOCIATED WITH ANY INDIVIDUALS, INCLUDING RELATIVES, WHO YOU KNOW OR HAVE REASON TO BELIEVE ARE OR
HAVE BEEN MEMBERS OF ANY OF THE ORGANIZATIONS IDENTIFIED ABOVE? ☐ YES ☒ NO

HAVE YOU EVER ENGAGED IN ANY OF THE FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES OF ANY ORGANIZATION OF THE TYPE DESCRIBED ABOVE: CONTRIBUTION(S) TO, ATTENDANCE AT OR
PARTICIPATION IN ANY ORGANIZATIONAL, SOCIAL, OR OTHER ACTIVITIES OF SAID ORGANIZATIONS OR OF ANY PROJECTS SPONSORED BY THEM; THE SALE, GIFT, OR DIS-
TRIBUTION OF ANY WRITTEN, PRINTED, OR OTHER MATTER, PREPARED, REPRODUCED, OR PUBLISHED, BY THEM OR ANY OF THEIR AGENTS OR INSTRUMENTALITIES? ☐ YES ☒ NO
IF YES, DESCRIBE THE CIRCUMSTANCES. ATTACH ADDITIONAL SHEETS FOR A FULL DETAILED STATEMENT. IF ASSOCIATED WITH ANY OF THE ABOVE ORGANIZATIONS, SPECIFY NATURE
AND EXTENT OF ASSOCIATION WITH EACH, INCLUDING OFFICE OR POSITION HELD, ALSO INCLUDE DATES, PLACES, AND CREDENTIALS NOW OR FORMERLY HELD. IF ASSOCIATIONS HAVE
BEEN WITH INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE MEMBERS OF THE ABOVE ORGANIZATIONS, THEN LIST THE INDIVIDUALS AND THE ORGANIZATIONS WITH WHICH THEY WERE OR ARE AFFILIATED.
NONE

18. HAVE YOU EVER BEEN DETAINED, HELD, ARRESTED, INDICTED OR SUED INTO COURT AS A DEFENDANT IN A CRIMINAL PROCEEDING OR CONVICTED, FINED, OR PRISONED OR
PLACED ON PROBATION, OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN ORDERED TO DEPOSIT BAIL OR COLLATERAL FOR THE VIOLATION OF ANY LAW, POLICE REGULATION OR ORDINANCE (including
minor traffic violations for which a fine or forfeiture of $35, or less was imposed): INCLUDE ALL COURT MARTIALS WHILE IN MILITARY SERVICE. ☐ YES ☒ NO
IF YES, GIVE THE DATE, THE NATURE OF THE OFFENSE OR VIOLATION, THE NAME AND LOCATION OF THE COURT OR PLACE OF HEARING, AND THE PENALTY IMPOSED OR OTHER
DISPOSITION OF EACH CASE.

---

19. ARE THERE ANY INCIDENTS IN YOUR LIFE NOT MENTIONED HEREIN WHICH MAY REFLECT UPON YOUR LOYALTY TO THE UNITED STATES OR UPON YOUR SUITABILITY TO PERFORM
THE DUTIES WHICH YOU MAY BE CALLED UPON TO TAKE OR WHICH MIGHT REQUIRE FURTHER EXPLANATION? ☐ YES ☒ NO
NONE

20. REMARKS
ITEM #13 "SECURITY CLEARANCES HELD"
ORGANIZATION: DEPT: CLEARANCE: DATE COMPLETED: FILE #
U.S. ARMY ARMY T.S. CRYPTO APPROX MARCH 1962 1313-1C
DIO NDW CIC 05 MARCH 1965
NIPSSA NAVY T.S. S.I. BELIEVED TO BE N.I.S. APPROX JUNE 1965
NIPSSA/NOSIC NAVY T.S. S.I. BELIEVED TO BE N.I.S. APPROX JUNE 1970
(UPDATE).

ITEM #10 (wife's step-brother)
NAME DOB/POB PRESENT ADDRESS U.S. CITIZEN
Thomas Howard Speer 25 October 1933 403 Hornel Avenue "YES"
Omaha, Texas. Baltimore, 24, Maryland. 21224

ITEM #14 "CREDIT REFERENCES"
VIRGINIA MORTGAGE AND INVESTMENT CO INC... .ACCOUNT NUMBER 0143270
VIRGINIA NATIONAL BANK.. .ACCOUNT NUMBER 1001578

I CERTIFY THAT THE ENTRIES MADE BY ME ABOVE ARE TRUE COMPLETE AND CORRECT TO THE BEST OF MY KNOWLEDGE AND BELIEF AND ARE MADE IN
GOOD FAITH. I UNDERSTAND THAT A KNOWING AND WILLFUL FALSE STATEMENT ON THIS FORM CAN BE PUNISHED BY FINE OR IMPRISONMENT OR BOTH
(SU. S. Code, title 10, section 1001)

DATE SIGNATURE OF PERSON COMPLETING FORM
15 APRIL 1975

21. TYPED NAME AND ADDRESS
MR DONALD W. NOBLE
5314 FENWOOD AVE.OXON HILL, MD. 20022

SIGNATURE OF WITNESS

THIS SECTION TO BE COMPLETED BY AUTHORITY REQUESTING INVESTIGATION
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DUTY ASSIGNMENT AND DEGREE OF CLASSIFIED MATTER (top secret, secret, etc.) TO WHICH APPLICANT WILL REQUIRE ACCESS
RECORD OF PRIOR CLEARANCES
CODE
CLEARANCE
DATE THAT CON-

---

FINGERPRINT CARD OPNAV FORM-5510-2 (REV. 9-66) (Supersedes OPNAV-32-327 (6-59))
APPLICANT LEAVE THIS SPACE BLANK
GLYNN PETER CARROLL JR.
LAST NAME FIRST NAME MIDDLE NAME

SIGNATURE OF PERSON FINGERPRINTED
RESIDENCE OF PERSON FINGERPRINTED
107 HOWARD ST, DUMFRIES, VA 22026

SIGNATURE OF OFFICIAL TAKING FINGERPRINTS

CONTRIBUTOR & ADDRESS COMPANY & ADDRESS LEAVE THIS SPACE BLANK
DOD NAC CENTER COMMANDER
Post Office Box 4 NAVAL INTELLIGENCE
Fort Holabird, Md. 21219 COMMAND, 2461
EISENHOWER AVENUE
ALEXANDRIA, VA.22331

TYPE OR PRINT ALL REQUESTED DATA DATE OF BIRTH
(SEE REVERSE SIDE FOR FURTHER INSTRUCTIONS) 05 MARCH 1940

DATE FINGERPRINTED PLACE OF BIRTH HAIR EYES
15 APR 1975 FALL RIVER, MASS. GRAY HAZEL

CITIZENSHIP RACE HT. (IN.) WT. CLASS. REF.
U.S. 68 184

1. RIGHT THUMB 2. RIGHT INDEX 3. RIGHT MIDDLE 4. RIGHT RING 5. RIGHT LITTLE

6. LEFT THUMB 7. LEFT INDEX 8. LEFT MIDDLE 9. RIGHT RING 10. LEFT LITTLE

TAKEN SIMULTANEOUSLY TAKEN SIMULTANEOUSLY
RIGHT FOUR FINGERS LEFT FOUR FINGERS

---

FINGERPRINT CARD OPNAV FORM-5510-2 (REV. 9-65) (Supersedes OPNAV-32-327 (6-50))
APPLICANT LEAVE THIS SPACE BLANK
GLYNN PETER CARROLL JR.
LAST NAME FIRST NAME MIDDLE NAME

SIGNATURE OF PERSON FINGERPRINTED
RESIDENCE OF PERSON FINGERPRINTED
107 HOWARD ST, DUMFRIES, VA 22026.

SIGNATURE OF OFFICIAL TAKING FINGERPRINTS

CONTRIBUTOR & ADDRESS COMPANY & ADDRESS LEAVE THIS SPACE BLANK
DOD NAC CENTER COMMANDER
Post Office Box 4 NAVAL INTELLIGENCE
Fort Holabird, Md. 21219 COMMAND, 2461
EISENHOWER AVENUE
ALEXANDRIA, VA. 22331

TYPE OR PRINT ALL REQUESTED DATA DATE OF BIRTH
(SEE REVERSE SIDE FOR FURTHER INSTRUCTIONS) 05 MARCH 1940

DATE FINGERPRINTED PLACE OF BIRTH HAIR EYES
15 APR 1975 FALL RIVER, MASS. GRAY HAZEL

CITIZENSHIP RACE HT. (IN.) WT. CLASS. REF.
US 68 184

1. RIGHT THUMB 2. RIGHT INDEX 3. RIGHT MIDDLE 4. RIGHT RING 5. RIGHT LITTLE

6. LEFT THUMB 7. LEFT INDEX 8. LEFT MIDDLE 9. RIGHT RING 10. LEFT LITTLE

TAKEN SIMULTANEOUSLY TAKEN SIMULTANEOUSLY
RIGHT FOUR FINGERS LEFT FOUR FINGERS

---

HEADQUARTERS
UNITED STATES ARMY SECURITY AGENCY TRAINING CENTER & SCHOOL
Fort Devens, Massachusetts

SPECIAL ORDERS EXTRACT
NUMBER 175 27 Aug 1962

15 TC 221. Fol reassignment dir. TDN. WP: 4 Sep 62 2132010 01-1361
-1363 P1513 599-999.

FRISBY, CLARENCE R RA15658275 PFC E3 058.10 Co A USASATR (9322) this sta.
Asg to: 303rd USASA Bn, Camp Wolters, Texas.
Rept Date: 7 Sep 62 PPSC: B
PCS (MDC): AD Nr Depn: 1
ADC: 3 yrs Last FST & Tvl Sta: Z
BFED: 11 Dec 61 DROS: NONE
ETS: Dec 64 DMOS: 058.10
Lv Data: DDALVAHP-NONE FSAC: 6
EDCSA: 11 Sep 62 Auth: Aloc CUSASA, Aug D101-10
Sety Clnc: Interim TS & Crypto Grad date: 22 Aug 64
Sp Instr: To will detm & furn nec TR & AMT fr this sta to Camp Wolters, Texas only.
Govt tvl fr N Sta to S Sta or Logan Airport Boston, Mass is auth.

GINCLEY, KENNETH E RA13750222 PVT E2 058.10 Co B USASATR (9312) this sta.
Asg to: 303rd USASA Bn, Camp Wolters,
Rept Date: 7 Sep 62 PPSC: A
PCS (MDC); AD Nr Depn: 1
ADC: 3 yrs Last FST & Tvl Sta: Z
BPED: 22 Dec 61 DROS: NONE
ETS: Dec 64 DMOS: 058.10
Lv Data: DDALVAHP- NONE FSAC: 6
EDCSA: 11 Sep 62 Auth: Aloc CUSASA, Aug D101-10
Sety Clnc: Final TS & Crypto Grad date: 22 Aug 62.
Sp Instr: TO will detm & furn nec TR & MT fr this sta to Camp Wolters, Texas only.
Govt Tvl fr N Sta to S Sta or Login Airport Boston, Mass is auth.

GLYNN, PETER JR RA11396679 PFC E3 038.10 Co E USASATR (9322) this sta.
Asg to: 303rd USASA Bn, Camp Wolters, Texas.
Rept Date: 7 Sep 62 PPSC: A
PCS (MDC): AD Nr Depn:
ADC: 3 yrs Last FST & Tvl Sta
BPED: 18Sep61 DROS: NONE
ETS: Sep 64 DMOS: 058.10
Lv Data: DDALVAHP- NONE FSAC: N
EDCSA: 11 Sep 62 Auth: Aloc CUSASA (Aug D101-10
Sety Clnc: Final TS & Crypto Grad date: 22 Aug 62
Sp Instr: TO will detm & furn nec TR AMT fr this sta to Camp Wolters, Texas only.
Govt Tvl fr N Ste to S Sta or Lan Airport Boston, Mass is auth.

ENCLOSURE (2)

---

EXTRACT: SC175 HQ, U.S. ASA THG CEN & SCH FT DEVENS, MASS. 27 AUG 62
16. TC 221. Foi reassignment dir. TDN. WP: 7 Sep 62 2132010 01-1361-
1363 P1513 899-999.

HOLBROOKS, JAMES R RA13752318 PVT E2 058.10 Co E USASATR (9322) this sta.
Asg to: 303rd USASA Bn, Camp Wolters, Tex. PPSC: A
Rept Date: 7 Sep 62 Nr Depn: 0
PCS (MDC): AD Last FST & Tvl Sta: Z
ADC: 3 yrs DROS: NONE
BPED: 18 Dec 61 DMOS: 059.10
ETS: Dec 64 Lv Data: DDALVAHP-NONE. FSAC: 6
EDCSA: 11 Sep 62 Auth: Aloc CUSASA, Aug 101-10
Sety clnc: Interim TS & Crypto Grad date: 22 Aug 62
Sp instr: To will detm & furn nec TR & AMT fr this sta to Camp Wolters, Texas only.
Govt Tv fr N Sta to S Sta or Logan Airport Boston, Mass is auth.

HOLLIS, CALVIN V III RA13750110 PFC E3 Co A USASATR (9322) this sta.
Asg to: 303rd USASA En, Camp Wolters, Tex. PPSC: A
Rept Date: Sep 62 Nr Depn: 0
PCS (MDC): AD Last FST & Tvl Sta: Z
ADC: 3 yrs DROS: NONE
BFED: 12 Dec 61 DMOS: 058.10
ETS: Dec 64 Lv Data: DRALVAHP-NONE FSAC: 6
EDCSA: 11 Sep 62 Auth: Aloc CUSASA, Aug D101-10
Sety cinc: Interim TS & Crypto Grad date: 22 Aug 62.
Sp instr: 10 will detm & furn nec TR AMT fr this sta to Camp Wolters, Texas only.
Govt Tyl fr N Sta to S Sta or Logan Airport Boston, Mass is auth.

FOR THE COMMANDER:

GEORGE E FIGEL
Major, AS (Inf)
Adjutant

OFFICIAL: T. S. BELL
Capt AGC
Asst Adj

DISTRIBUTION: C & L
plus CUSASA ATTN: JAAG-AS AHS Arl 12, Va. (2 cys)
CO 303rd USASA Bn, Camp Wolters, Texas. (5 cys)

ENCLOSURE (2)

---

DD Form 214
AUTHENTICATION COPY
SERVICE DATA
RE-1
PERSONAL DATA

LEGEND: Insert N/A to the items below which are not applicable

1. LAST NAME FIRST NAME MIDDLE NAME 2. SERVICE NUMBER
GLYNN, PETER CARROLL, JR. RA 11 396 679

3a. GRADE, RATE OR RANK 3b. DATE OF RANK (Day, Month,
SP4 E-4 (P) Year)
6 Dec 62

4. U.S. CITIZEN 5. PLACE OF BIRTH (City and State or Country
☑ YES ☐ NO Fall River, Massachusetts.

6a. DATE OF BIRTH 6b. SEX 7a. RACE 7b. COLOR HAIR 7c. COLOR EYES 8a. HEIGHT 8b. WEIGHT 9. MARITAL STATUS
DAY MONTH YEAR Male Gray Brown 67 172 Single
5 Mar 40

10a. HIGHEST CIVILIAN EDUCATION LEVEL 10b. MAJOR COURSE OR FIELD
ATTAINED Academic
12 Years

11a. TYPE OF TRANSFER OR DISCHARGE 11b. STATION OR INSTALLATION AT WHICH EFFECTED
Transferred to USAR (See Item 18) FORT WOLTERS, MINERAL WELLS, TEXAS

11c. REASON AND AUTHORITY 11d. EFFECTIVE
AR 635-200 SPN 201 Expiration of Term of Service DAY MONTH YEAR
DATE
17 Sep 64

12. LAST DUTY ASSIGNMENT AND MAJOR COMMAND 13a. CHARACTER OF SERVICE 13b. TYPE OF CERTIFICATE
330th ASA Co (A) 303D ASA Bn (Corps) USASA HONORABLE ISSUED
None

14. SELECTIVE SERVICE NUMBER 15. SELECTIVE SERVICE LOCAL BOARD NUMBER, CITY, COUNTY AND STATE
Local Board #3
Newport, Rhode Island

17. DISTRICT OR AREA COMMAND TO WHICH RESERVIST TRANSFERRED 18. TERMINAL DATE OF
Transferred to USAR Control Group (Reinforcements) XIII U. S. Army Corps RESERVE OBLIGATION
DAY MONTH YEAR
17 Sep 67

19. CURRENT ACTIVE SERVICE OTHER THAN BY INDUCTION 20. PRIOR REGULAR ENLISTMENTS
a. SOURCE OF ENTRY None
☐ ENLISTED(First Enlistment) ☐ ENLISTED (Prior Service) ☐ REENLISTED
☐ OTHER: b. TERM OF
SERVICE
(Years) DAY MONTH YEAR
N/A

21. GRADE, RATE OR RANK AT TIME OF 22. PLACE OF ENTRY INTO CURRENT ACTIVE SERVICE (City and State)
ENTRY INTO CURRENT ACTIVE SERVICE Providence, Rhode Island
PVT E-1 (F)

23. HOME OF RECORD AT TIME OF ENTRY INTO ACTIVE SERVICE
(Street, City, County and State)
50 Hobson Avenue
Tiverton (Newport) Rhode Island

24. STATEMENT OF SERVICE 25a. SPECIALTY NUMBER AND 25b. RELATED CIVILIAN OCCUPATION
YEARS MONTHS DAYS DESIGNATION AND D.O.T NUMBER
a. NET SERVICE THIS PERIOD Radio Operator.
3 0 0 058T10 0-61
b. OTHER SERVICE Morse Intercept
PURPOSES c. TOTAL (line (1) + line (2))
3 0 0

b. TOTAL ACTIVE SERVICE
3 0 0
c. FOREIGN AND/OR SEA SERVICE
0 0 0

26. DECORATIONS, MEDALS, BADGES, COMMENDATIONS, CITATIONS AND CAMPAIGN RIBBONS AWARDED OR AUTHORIZED
Marksman Badge (Rifle M-1)
Good Conduct Medal

27. WOUNDS RECEIVED AS A RESULT OF ACTION WITH ENEMY FORCES (Place and date, if known)
None

28. SERVICE SCHOOLS OR COLLEGES, COLLEGE TRAINING COURSES AND/OR POST GRADUATE COURSES SUCCESSFULLY COMPLETED
SCHOOL OR COURSE DATES: (From-to MAJOR COURSES
USASATC&S 26 Weeks 1962 T/T Intercept

29. OTHER SERVICE TRAINING
COURSES SUCCESSFULLY
COMPLETED
CER Training
Battle Indoc
Military Justice
Code of Conduct
Non-Jud Pun
Geneva Convention

30. GOVERNMENT LIFE INSURANCE IN FORCE 31. VA BENEFITS PREVIOUSLY APPLIED FOR (Specify type).
☐ YES ☐ NO None

32. REMARKS
Blood Group: O
SSAN: 022-30-2275
Lump sum payment made for 15 days accrued leave.
Entitled to reenlistment bonus No. 1 in pay grade E-4 UP Chap 9 AR 37-104.
Accumulative amount of bonuses and allowances paid subsequent to 1 Oct 49: None

33. ADDRESS FOR MAILING