180-10144-10130

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET 8/1/78

Orlando Bosch Avila - DDO - Six Volumes. #201-299-292

* Volume I
* Undated report
* Third agency material in sealed envelopes, all FBI

Dr. Orlando Bosch Avila CampiTTO/23/

DPOB: 18 Aug 1926, Santa Clara, Cuba

Bosch was one of many critical of CIA policy & personnel following Bay of Pigs.

However, in March 1962, WAVE requested a POA on Bosch advising he was "Cooperative and secure." To be utilized as General Coordinator of Evelio Duque group, POA granted on 6 March 1962.

Seven Jolysgrapher in May 1962 + Came out clean. His clearance was cancelled in Nov. 1962.

Bouch aligns himself with individuals and organizations that are currently involved in operations against Cuba, usually serving as General Coordinator & takes responsibility for securing financial backing.

③7 June 1965

Biographical Data Report - Orlando Bosch Avila

Personal Data: Bosch is shrewd, cunning, devious & deceptive. He is primarily an adventurer & probably an anarchist rather than a true revolutionary. He is probably a paranoid psychopath. He is a good doctor but neglects his job to devote time to raiding activities. He is a notorious and has several times announced raids over Cuba which never occurred.

10144-10130

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

Galmer
8/1/78
Bosch
SECRET

Volume II - no. notes 1965-68.
Third agency deletions - all FBI

Volume III 1968-1974
3rd agency deletions. No. notes.

Volume II 1975-1978
Third agency deletions
1.6 sealed envelopes - all FBI

23 pealed envelopes.

@ DoD document - Intelligence Report atd 9 June 1976.

Subject: Cuban Exile Terrorist group

SS Cable 21 Feb. 1976. San Jose 105
Subject: Re Arrest of Juan Bosch at this Location

@ of envelopes SS documents re, visit of Henry Kissinger to Caracas, Feb. 1976.

& Remainder - FBI USAF Cable from ICS
• Jan 1978
file # MSGNO 46 (MIIR) Subject; Venezuelan Aircraft Security Threat Expanded

Palmer
SECRET
8/1/78
Bosch

② State Cables - Nov. Dec. 1977 - Visas for wife & child of Orlando Bosch

State Cables bombings - July 12-13, 1976.

Remainder sealed envelopes - FBI documents

-12 Feb. 1976 Cable IN 824723.

CITE: Caracas 29063
To: Priority director, Santiago Buenos Aires LA/Mia

[LUK'S CARLET-3] (former unilateral asset.) advises he is investigating bombing Cuban ambassador Caracas + is travelling during week of 15 Feb 76-23 to Santiago, Buenos Aires + Miami.

Cuban Ambassador Norberto Hernandez Curbelo reported receiving bomb in large manila envelope. hearing return address of Dr. Gustavs A. Vollmer

[WK. Scarlet/1], former [WK Scarlet] chief, is security Consultant & Vollmer & has retained W/ Scarlet/3] who is operating a commercial investigations service & determine who used Vollmer's name.

[LUK Scarlet/3] maintains contacts with Orlando Bosch.

18 Feb. 1976 Cable IN 830506 nephew.

CITE: [Caracas] 29129

③ Frank Castro had knowledge of attempt & assassinate wysuw off allende a told [WK Scarlet / 3]. In order to use information, agency afraid they will compromise [WK Scarlet / 3].

Palm 8/1/78
Orlando Bosch

Volume I - August 1976
Third Agency Deletions no. notes.

Volume II - October 1976
- 10 Sealed envelopes, State & FBI
Third Agency deletions.
4 FRI
- 6 sealed envelopes.
2 State - det. 1976.

1:12 nov. 1976
1. Cable 943114
To: Priority [Santiago] Info [San Jose] [Caracas]

Morales was source of numerous secret service reports during Kissinger visit to Caracas in Feb. 1976 on reported attempt by Bosch to kill Kissinger. One SS report indicated Morales had provided Caracas legal attache with reliable info in the past

Dispatch 15 nov 1976
& Chief: LA. Division
From Chef of station, [points]

[Noe Byson W. gutract] met [WK Scarlet /3] in 1964 when both were enrolled in OCS at M. Benning, Ga

Loose Documents .
Palmer
8/1/78.
SECRET
Bosch

One sealed envelope- F-B.I documents deleted
Bosch, Orlando.
C 97563

One sealed envelope - Office of Security Information

SECRET
- 8/7/78
Orlando Bosch Avila - Office of Security 257 971
1. Volume
Dates 1962-78
Deletions - / sealed envelope.

①. 5 March 1977
Cable IN 207098
To: Director.
Response to
CITE [Corsian]

a 4. March news article in "El mundo" Caracas named CIA topics as Orlando Bosch, Ricardo Morales Navarrete Orlando Garcia Vasquez, Luis Posada Carriles - etc.

Cable states, "fortunately, none are currently active assets" group.

8 April 1977, memo, Chief: Security Analysis
From: John F Sullivan Jr./Michael W. Renick
Subject: El mundo exposure

Office of Security indices Check on names (some of which outlined in #1 above).

"In those cases above where a security file exists, there is no evidence that any of the individuals are current, active assets."
