```markdown
180-10147-10176- 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Box 61
F414

The CIA has publicly stated that it never interviewed Lee Harvey Oswald. Numerous allegations have arisen over the years since President Kennedy's assassination that Oswald either had been or should have been debriefed by the CIA upon his return from the Soviet Union since he appeared to be in a position to provide useful information due to the length and duration of his stay and employment there. The claim that no records exist which indicate a debriefing of Oswald has stimulated speculation that Oswald may have had some type of agency relationship either because the contact was not reported through normal channels or because the CIA communicated with Oswald in circumstances which obviated the necessity for a routine debriefing.

The HSCA attempted to determine: 1) whether Oswald was, in fact, interviewed by the CIA upon his return from the Soviet Union; 2) whether there is an official report of the interview if one was conducted; and 3) the reasons why Oswald would not have been interviewed if not.

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce
10147-10174

In response to the Warren Commission's request, John A. McCone, Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, submitted an affidavit stating that the CIA had had no relationship of any kind with Lee Harvey Oswald. The affidavit, dated 18 May 1964, specifies that "the Agency never contacted him, interviewed him, talked with him, received or solicited any reports or information from him, or communicated with him, directly or indirectly, in any other manner." McCone's testimony before the Warren Commission on May 14, 1964 gave the same assertion as to the agency's lack of contact with Oswald. Specifically, when McCone was asked whether the CIA had had any contact with Oswald during his stay in the Soviet Union, McCone replied, "No, not to my knowledge, nor to the knowledge of those who would have been in a position to have made such contact... or seeking to any sort we have also responded negatively to the question of whether the CIA had any personal contact with Oswald subsequent to his return to the United States." (Warren Commission, Hearing Vol. XI, p. 123).

McCone's affidavit was reportedly instigated by the appearance of an article on 28 February 1964 in the Northern Virginia Sun which made the following allegation: "State Department records show that Oswald had several meetings with the CIA representative in the U.S. Embassy in Moscow. During this period, the assassin was seeking to renounce his citizenship. One State Department cable, No. 234, dated November 2, 1959, reports that Oswald was interviewed by the CIA and other embassy officials (CIA FOIA Document #609-786)."

The CIA memorandum disputing this allegation, both internally and to the Warren Commission, advises that this allegation is totally unfounded. (Ibid. and CIA FOIA Document #610-263). The memorandum explains that the reference to the State Department "cable" is erroneous and that the document to which the article was referring is undoubtedly a State Department "despatch" No. 234, which was dated 2 November 1959 from the U.S. Embassy in Moscow.

According to the internal memorandum, the despatch contained no statement in reference to a CIA connection. Richard E. Snyder, who was the Second Secretary of the U.S. Embassy in Moscow, is the only person mentioned by name in the dispatch.

However, the memorandum acknowledged that both Snyder and Edward A. Freers, the State Department official who signed the despatch, had had some past connection with the Agency. Snyder had been employed by the CIA for less than one year in 1950 when he resigned in order to assume a position with the State Department. Although the CIA's records indicate the possibility of a history of agency interest in Freers, he was never actually employed by the CIA.

The record of the Central Intelligence Agency throughout the years is consistent with its position they stated to the Warren Commission that the CIA never interviewed Lee Harvey Oswald. In a February 1972 letter from Bernard Fensterwald to the Assistant Director of the CIA requests any records pertaining to a debriefing of Oswald on behalf of the CIA following his return from the Soviet Union. This request for information contrary to the Agency's previously stated position appears to be generated by a statement made by Richard Helms on 14 April 1971 before the American Society of Newspaper Editors that "... if there is a case that if a private citizen travelling abroad has acquired foreign information that can be useful to the American policymaker we are certainly going to try to interview him." (CIA FOIA file #961-927-A6). Fensterwald cites Oswald as being such a person.

There then follows an exchange of letters between Fensterwald and Angus M. Thuermer who was the Assistant to the Director of the CIA in which Thuermer refers Fensterwald to the testimony of McCone and Helms before the Warren Commission. Thurmer states that the testimony is still valid; therefore the information you request does not exist. When Fensterwald responds to this answer with a request for Thuermer's own position with respect to the records rather than "conclusory statements of persons other than yourself" Thurmer ends the exchange by stating that his previous response was "a simple declarative statement in the most possible extremity that the Agency never had any contact with Oswald and that, therefore, the information sought by you in your letter of February 9th does not exist and never did exist." (CIA FOIA file #976-427-AP.).

In April of 1978, the HSCA requested that the CIA provide a statement as to whether Lee Harvey Oswald was ever contacted, spoken to or interviewed by any one directly or indirectly representing the CIA. The Agency responded in the same manner it had used in responding to similar requests from other sources, by way of referring the committee to the testimony of Helms and McCone before the Warren Commission and to McCone's affidavit denying any agency contact with Oswald.

A 25 November 1963 CIA Memorandum is the only documented evidence of any CIA interest in interviewing Oswald. The author of the memorandum, Thomas B. Casasin, stated: "As soon as I had heard Oswald's name, I recalled that sometime in the Summer of the then 1960 - with the then Chief and Deputy Chief of the 6 Branch I had discussed the laying on of interviewers through embassy or other suitable channels at the moment I don't recall if this was discussed while Oswald and his family were in route to this country or if it was after their arrival." (CIA FUIA document #435-173-A).

(Casasin) was interviewed by the HSCA staff on August 17, 1978. In this interview, he stated that he worked as Chief of the 6 Branch from September 1960 until his reassignment in September 1962. (Best Interview of CIA Employee, 5/17/78, p.1). He advised that the function of the 6 Branch was to amass information from defectors concerning details about Soviet life which would then be used to assist persons working inside the Soviet Union (Ibid.).

The 6 Branch also relied upon the CIA's Contacts Division and the FBI as sources of this type of information, as well as collecting information from the State Department and the press concerning events in the Soviet Union (Ibid., p.4).

During this interview (Casasin's) recollection of the discussion mentioned in the 25 November 1963 memo was that it took place during the early days of his tenure with the 6 Branch. This would have placed the discussion sometime in July 1962. He stated that the date cited for the discussion in the memo must have been erroneous as he was traveling with his family between assignments in the Summer of 1960 and did not begin his assignment with the 6 Branch until September of that year (Ibid., pp. 4-5).

(Casasin) stated that at the time the Oswald case was discussed, he assumed that Oswald must have been sent out of the Soviet Union by the KGB. Therefore, exercising caution, he did not attempt to debrief Oswald but suggested that Oswald be debriefed by (Tim) which represented the Office of Operations, an office which debriefed persons through its Contacts Division or "other suitable channels" which he meant the FBI or the Immigration and Naturalization Service. He did not believe that this had been done at that time because any such type of information would have been routinely passed on to the CIA and to his section if such a debriefing had occurred. All other information he had on Oswald at the time was in the form of State Department dispatches. (Ibid.)

In the memorandum (Casasin) states that he told his subordinates something to the effect of "Don't push too hard to get the information we need, because this individual looks odd." (CIA FOIA Document # 435-173-A). He explained in the interview that this statement reflected the CIA's assessment of Oswald based on the unusual facts that Oswald was permitted by the Soviets to remain in the USSR and was further permitted to marry a Soviet citizen (HSCA Staff Interview of CIA Employee, 5/17/78, p.5).

(Casasin) stated that his interest in Oswald as expressed in the memorandum was just a lead and that it was not unusual that there had been no follow-up regarding a debriefing of Oswald. He wrote the memo at the time of the discussion as it was not customary to write regarding leads that were deserved and subsequently dismissed as being quite unimportant. (Ibid.)

Walter P. Haltigan, the person to whom the 25 November 1963 letter was written, was then employed by the CIA in the Soviet section of the (Paris station). (HSCA Staff Interview of CIA Employee, 6/13/78, p.1.) (Haltigan's recollection comes from his position in the Soviet state of Paris station). Interviews with HSCA staff mention that because of the nature of (Casasin's) position under (non-official) cover, (Casasin) frequently wrote informal memos such as the one in FOIA #435-173-A which were then passed on through the use of cut-outs to the (Paris station). These memoranda would then be forwarded to CIA Headquarters, generally by (Haltigan). However, in this particular instance, Robert H. Chumney who served under (Haltigan) received and forwarded the memorandum to Headquarters (not Haltigan). (Haltigan) expressed the general agency opinion that had the CIA wished to contact a returning defector, it would have done so through the Contacts Division of the Office of Operations but that it was not standard operating procedure to interview returning defectors because this job fell within the FBI's jurisdiction. (Ibid., p.2).

(Casasin) also told the HSCA that the CIA had a specific interest in Minsk as it was known that the city contained some type of special design plants but may have involved aviation, nuclear energy or bacteriological warfare. (HSCA Identification of CIA Employee, pp.5-6). Consequently, although he did not know that Oswald was working in any type of security facility paying, he believed that anyone working in the area of those plants would have ideas of interest to the Agency (Ibid., p.6). However, even with the presence of the design plants, Minsk was not identified as a security or military priority. (Ibid.)

(Casasin) believed that the CIA maintained a large volume of information on the Minsk radio factory in which Oswald worked. This information was stored in the Office of Research and Reporting. This fact was corroborated by another former CIA employee, Donald Deneselya, who worked in the Foreign Documents Division in the Soviet Branch of the Office of Intelligence in 1962.

(Deneselya) told the HSCA that he specifically recalled selecting intelligence regarding the Minsk Radio Plant. (HSCA Interview of CIA Employee). (Deneselya) claims that, in fact, early in the Summer of 1962, he reviewed a contact report from representatives of the CIA's New York field office who interviewed a former Marine who had worked at the Minsk Radio Plant following his defection to the USSR (Ibid.). This person, who Deneselya believes may have been Oswald, had lived in Minsk with his family. (Ibid.) (Deneselya) advised the committee that the contact report was filed in a volume containing the Minsk Radio Plant which should be retrievable from the Industrial Registry Branch, which was the component of the Office of Central Reference.

The HSCA requested that the CIA provide the committee both the above-described contact report and the volume of materials concerning the Minsk Radio Plant. CIA staff reviewed the documents in the volumes in the Minsk Radio Plant and advised that no such contact report existed in that file.

The file review did indicate that in 1975, Daniel Simon had made a similar request and was informed by the CIA that no such report existed.

The Select Committee on Assassinations requested that the Central Intelligence Agency provide a written statement indicating whether, from 1958-1963, it interviewed or debriefed returning American defectors to the Soviet Union as a matter of standard operating procedure. The Agency was also requested to indicate the circumstances under which an interview would be initiated if such interviews were not conducted as standard operating procedure.

The agency's response indicated that the Counterintelligence Staff reviewed the files of 117 persons who had "defected" to the USSR between 1958 and 1963 and who had subsequently returned to the United States. This review revealed that only ten of the 117 individuals had been contacted by any component within the CIA and that the CIA had no procedure for the systematic debriefing of such persons; instead, the contacts that were initiated appeared to be based on "opportunity and circumstance."

Another memorandum explained that the CIA had no standard operating procedure with respect to debriefing returning American defectors as the agency relied upon the FBI for reporting the results of interviews they may have conducted in connection with the responsibility for internal security matters. The Agency further stated that there were no manuals or regulations for the period of 1958-1963 which specifically address the subject of American defectors.

In fact, the ten persons with whom the CIA admitted having contact did not strictly meet the specific requirements as requested in the H.SCA's request. Seven of the ten individuals had not actively defected to the USSR during the period 1958-1963, but had resided there for at least three years prior to 1958. Three of the ten individuals returned to the United States and were subsequently debriefed after 1963. The CIA employee who conducted the research in preparation for the Agency's response told the HSCA that the requirements he had utilized in arriving at his conclusions had been somewhat broader than severely requested in order to include all those persons regarded as defectors who were residing in the Soviet Union during the time period in question, rather than just those who actually defected at that time.

The House Select Committee on Assassinations conducted a review of defectors' files in order to determine whether defectors other than Oswald were routinely debriefed upon their return to the United States. The committee requested that the CIA provide a list of persons travelling to the Soviet Union during the period from 1958 to 1963, including both visitors and those persons considered by the Agency to be "defectors."

In response, the CIA provided a computer listing of 350 individuals entitled "U.S. Persons Who Have or May Have Defected to the USSR Between 1956-1963." The Agency stated that this listing represented individuals, including U.S. citizens, who owed some measure of allegiance to the United States, and either defected or shown some intention of defecting to the USSR within the requested time period.

As this list was compiled from a more detailed computer program on American defectors, a more detailed description concerning these individuals was requested and provided in an expanded version of the original list. This machine listing included the following information where available for each individual: name, date and place of birth, 201 file number, arrival in Soviet Union, departure from Soviet Union, employment in Soviet Union, most current address, and other miscellaneous information compiled from the individuals' 201 file and /or third agency documents regarding this individual.

The Committee compiled a list of persons who appeared from the information available in the Agency's expended list, to be U.S. citizens born in the United States, who defected or attempted to defect to the Soviet Union between the years of 1958 and 1963 and who returned to the United States within the same period of time. In addition, the Committee included individuals from an October 1960 State Department index request for information from the CIA regarding persons whom they considered to be defectors to the Soviet Union or Soviet bloc countries.

The H.SCA requested files on twenty-nine individuals who fit the above described criteria and the CIA provided files on twenty-eight individuals on whom they maintained records. Both 201 files were reviewed as well as any existing Domestic Contact Division files regarding these persons.

The HSCA file review revealed that, in the case of six of the individuals, there is no indication that they ever returned to the United States. In some of these cases, the files contained a report from a source who interviewed or spoke with the subject and then reported the contact to the CIA, but there is no indication of direct contact with any of these persons on the part of the CIA.

In regard to the other twenty-two defectors, the file review shows that there is no record of CIA contact with eighteen of them. Again, four of these files contain a report by sources who advised the Agency of their contact. One file regarding a former military person contains a report of a debriefing conducted by military intelligence.

The circumstances of the CIA's contact with the four remaining defectors differed in each case. The file of one individual reflects that he had actually lived in the USSR since 1933 and returned to the United States in 1962. He was debriefed by a CIA officer using (Department of Defense) cover after applying for employment in response to a newspaper advertisement. Another returning defector, Harold W. Gathright, was unwittingly interviewed by a CIA officer in the American Embassy in Copenhagen upon his departure from the Soviet Union en route to the United States. While Gathright's file indicates that the agency considered it desirable that a full and controlled debriefing by the CIA and FBI be conducted and Regerston wrote to the FBI suggesting a joint debriefing, there is no evidence in Gathright's 201 file nor in any DCD documents which suggest further action on the part of the CIA.

More extensive debriefings were conducted of the other two defectors. Robert E. Webster, a plastics expert with the Reed Development Corporation whose defection to the Soviet Union in 1959 was widely publicized, returned to the United States in June of 1962. (Webster had been employed in the Soviet Union at the Leningrad Scientific Institute of Mytilu Plastics).

Shortly after his return to the United States, Webster was located in this country by representatives from the CIA's Office of Operations and in conjunction with representatives from the FBI. It was decided that a more extensive debriefing was in order and Webster was subsequently brought to the Washington, D. C. area where he was debriefed for a period of two weeks. The debriefing reports include a chronology of Webster's life and the CIA's assessment of him as well as a large body of information regarding life in the Soviet Union, Webster's work there and biographical information on persons whom he met during his residence there.

Likewise, Shivers Recordeilli who had lived in the Soviet Union for nearly four years, was contacted for purposes of debriefing after his return to the United States, in late June of 1963. His initial debriefing included such subjects as his motivation to defect to the USSR as well as activities engaged in during his stay, relocation from Moscow to Kiev and general aspects of life such as inside controls and costs. While the CIA felt it was unfeasible to debrief Recordeilli thoroughly due to his current status of attempting to regain U.S. citizenship, the agency expressed an interest in soliciting more information on such topics as cost of living, medical care, consumer goods, highways, transportation and restrictions upon travel within Kiev.

It becomes clear from the review of files on these defectors that debriefing by the CIA of defectors was, in fact, somewhat of a random occurrence. However, in the instances in which the agency did choose to debrief returning defectors, the agency appeared to be interested in topics of general interest regarding life in certain areas of the Soviet Union. In this regard, the persons who were debriefed were similar to Oswald in that they defected and returned within the same general time period and had spent time in the Soviet Union in areas of interest to the CIA.

It appears, from an examination of all available materials, that Lee Harvey Oswald was not interviewed by the CIA following his return to the United States from the Soviet Union although persons in a branch of the Soviet Russia Division expressed an interest in interviewing Oswald, they never followed up on this interest. There is also no indication that the Collections Division of the Office of Operations interviewed Oswald.

While the CIA did conduct interviews of some tourists who visited the Soviet Union during this period 1959-1963 as well as some American citizens who defected to the Soviet Union and then returned to the United States, there was no standard policy to interview all persons in either category. Thus, the fact that Oswald was not interviewed was more the rule than the exception according to procedures followed by the CIA at that point in time.
