# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM IDENTIFICATION FORM

## AGENCY INFORMATION

**AGENCY:** INSCOM/CSF
**RECORD NUMBER:** 194-10012-10030
**RECORDS SERIES:** DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
**AGENCY FILE NUMBER:** AC643360W PAGES 15-16

## DOCUMENT INFORMATION

**ORIGINATOR:** USA
**FROM:** CIA
**TO:**
**TITLE:** CIA INFORMATION REPORT
**DATE:** 01/04/63
**PAGES:** 2
**SUBJECTS:** PFUNTNER, JORDAN J. UNDIMINISHED PRESTIGE OF FIDEL CASTRO IN LATIN AMERICA
**DOCUMENT TYPE:** PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
**CLASSIFICATION:** UNCLASSIFIED
**RESTRICTIONS:** 1C RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
**DATE OF LAST REVIEW:** 09/22/97
**OPENING CRITERIA:** COMPLETION OF REVIEW BY CIA.
**COMMENTS:** COORDINATION WITH CIA HAS BEEN COMPLETED AND DETERMINED TO BE RELEASABLE, PER LTR DTD 23 SEP 97.

---

TELEGRAM / INFORMATION REPORT / TELEGRAM
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS (When Filled In)

**COUNTRY:** CUBA/LATIN AMERICA
**SUBJECT:** UNDIMINISHED PRESTIGE OF FIDEL CASTRO IN LATIN AMERICA
**DATE DISTR.:** 4 JANUARY 1963
**PRECEDENCE:** ROUTINE
**REFERENCES:** RD-W-2107

**REPORT NO.:** TDCS -3/532,860
**DATE OF INFO.:** DECEMBER 1962
**PLACE:** ENGLAND, LONDON (3 JANUARY 1963)
**DATE ACQ.:**
**APPRAISAL:** 3
**FIELD REPORT NO.:** OEL-34,413

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

**SOURCE:** AN OFFICIAL BRITISH SERVICE FROM "A REGULAR SOURCE, QUOTING A YUGOSLAV JOURNALIST WHO RECENTLY TOURED LATIN AMERICA."

1.  FIDEL CASTRO HAS LOST LITTLE PRESTIGE AMONG HIS SUPPORTERS IN LATIN AMERICA AS RESULT RECENT CRISIS. IN EYES OF HIS DISCIPLES, THE UNITED STATES FAILED TO EXPLOIT AN OPPORTUNITY TO UNSEAT HIM, AND CASTRO REMAINED IN POWER.

2.  LATIN AMERICAN COMMUNIST PARTIES HAVE BECOME INCREASINGLY DIVIDED BETWEEN VIOLENT AND NON-VIOLENT FACTIONS. THIS CONTROVERSY IS LIKELY TO RESULT IN INDIVIDUAL COMMUNIST PARTIES ADOPTING MORE INDEPENDENT AND FELXIBLE POLICIES. THERE IS A GENERAL TREND AGAINST POLICIES "DICTATED FROM OUTSIDE."

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC USIA OCI ONE OCR ORR OCI INS FBI EXO

DA IN 4722
FORM 5-63 1K OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

---

CLASSIFICATION-DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

IN 44195
TDCS -3/532,860
PAGE 2

3. BRITISH COMMENTS.

    A.  THE IMPRESSION DESCRIBED IN PARA 1 DOES NOT AGREE ENTIRELY WITH INFORMATION FROM OTHER SOURCES BUT IT IS AN INTERESTING POINT OF VIEW.

    B.  SOURCE SAYS THAT CUBAN EXILES IN VENEZUELA ARE "DISILLUSIONED" OVER THE OUTCOME OF THE CUBAN CRISIS BUT THAT THE DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL (DRE, REVOLUTIONARY STUDENT DIRECTORATE) AND ALPHA 66 INTEND TO CONTINUE PROMOTING SMALL-SCALE ATTACKS ON CUBA.

4. FIELD DISSEM: STATE, CINCLANT, CINCARIB.

END OF MESSAGE

**ACTION:** ACSI, NAVY, AF, JCS, OSD
**INFO:** DCSOP

DA IN 4722

CLASSIFICATION-DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
