Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#: NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date: 03/07/96
Page: 1

AGENCY: INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER: 194-10007-10424
RECORDS SERIES: DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: X1332650W - PAGE 502

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: USA
FROM: [RESTRICTED]
TITLE: AGENT REPORT
DATE: 02/25/70
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS: NAGELL, RICHARD C.
TRINKALA, VICTOR L.
CHARACTER REFERENCE
SWORN STATEMENT
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/09/95
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: SWORN STATEMENT INDEXED SEPARATELY.

NW 88613 DocId: 34529655 Page 1

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT
AGENT REPORT
(AR 381-130; FM 30-17)
2. DATE SUBMITTED
25 February 1970
3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER
9321 6006

TRINKALA, Victor Lee
DPOB: 28 November 1950; Rochester, Pa.
PVT 185 42 1155

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS
(SUBJECT INTERVIEW) On 19 February 1970, Victor Lee TRINKALA,
Unemployed, address of residence, 127 West 3d Street, Room 301, Manhattan,
New York 10036, was interviewed under oath at Region I, 108th Military In-
telligence Group, Room 1332, 26 Federal Plaza, New York, New York 10007,
concerning HIS character, suitability, and unswerving loyalty to the United
States. TRINKALA, after indicating HIS complete and full understanding of
the purpose and necessity of the interview, consented to be interviewed, al-
lowed the interview to be tape recorded, and was duly sworn. TRINKALA
furnished a Sworn Statement (DA Form 2823), a copy of which is attached he-
reto as EXHIBIT containing the information disclosed by HIM during
the interview of which HE signed on 24 February 1970 at 206 West 43d Street,
Manhattan, New York 10036. SUBJECT requested and receipted for a copy of
HIS Sworn Statement, copy of Receipt of Statement attached hereto as
EXHIBIT.
AGENT'S NOTES: SUBJECT was reluctant to answer questions. It
is the opinion of the undersigned Agent that TRINKALA was evasive through-
out the interview. Special Agent James H. Raymond, Region I, 108th Military
Intelligence Group, was present throughout the interview and concurs with
the above remarks.

5. TYPE ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT
CPH 108th MI Gp (I-CIB)

6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT
Mark D.

NW 88613 DocId: 34529655 Page 2
