Date : 08/24/98
Page : 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CSF/INSCOM
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10006-10178
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PAGES 635-636

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM : DIETRICH, DAN H JR
TO : CG, USA INTEL CMD
TITLE : [ RESTRICTED ]
DATE : 10/05/66
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS : SCHEER, ROBERT

REQUESTED ACTION
CLEARANCE AND/OR ACCESS
LATEST INVESTIGATION/CLEARANCE
TYPE OF INVESTIGATION
RESULTS OF PERSONNEL SECURITY ACTION
REQUEST FOR AND RESULT OF PERSONNEL SECURITY ACTION
DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95

OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :

NW 88613 DocId:34530123 Page 1

REQUEST FOR AND RESULT OF PERSONNEL SECURITY ACTION
(AR 381-130)

FROM: (Requesting Agency)
CG, USA Intelligence Cmd
ATTN: ACofS, CONOPS
PO Box 398
Fort Holabird, Md 21219

TO: (Control Office)
CO, AFEES
1515 Clay Street
Oakland, California

THRU:
CG, USAREC
ATTN: Security Officer
Fort Monroe, Va 23351

(Enter name and address of the ACTION AGENCY to which results are to be sent, if known by requester)

CONTROL OFFICE USE ONLY
REQUIREMENT REQUEST NO.

CHIEF, USAPSG
ATTN: Adjudication Branch
Fort Holabird, Md 21219

DOSSIER NO.
OPENING DATE

REMARKS

1. SUBJECT (Last name in capitals, first and middle names)
SCHEER, Robert (NMN)

2. ALIAS(ES)
None

3. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.
112-28-1134

4. DATE OF BIRTH (Day, Month, Year)
4 April 1936

5. PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State and country)
Bronx, New York, New York, USA

6. GRADE AND POSITION
N/A

7. REQUESTED ACTION
8. TYPE OF INVESTIGATION:
☐ NACI ☐ NAC ☑ INVESTIGATION VALIDATION ☐ OTHER (Explain in Item 15)

9. a. FOR CLEARANCE AND/OR ACCESS TO:
☐ TOP SECRET ☐ SECRET ☐ CONFIDENTIAL

b. ☐ FOR LIMITED ACCESS AUTHORIZATION

c. ☐ INTERIM CLEARANCE DESIRED

10. TO DETERMINE SUITABILITY FOR:
Induction
RECORDS CHECK

11. JUSTIFICATION
PAR 18, AR 604-10

d. ☑ OTHER (Explain in Item 15)

12. REVIEW OF FILES REQUIRED BY PARAGRAPH AR 604-5, COMPLETED ON REVEALED:
☐ NO UNFAVORABLE INFORMATION ☐ UNFAVORABLE INFORMATION DETERMINED NOT TO BE A BAR TO ACTION CONTEMPLATED
☐ INFORMATION SUMMARIZED IN ITEM 15

13. LATEST INVESTIGATION/CLEARANCE (Type, when, by whom)
N/A

14. NO BREAK IN FEDERAL SERVICE EXCEEDING SIX MONTHS SINCE

15. REMARKS (If unfavorable information entered, transmit in sealed envelope thru intelligence channels.).
Request investigation of registrant in view of remarks made by registrant in remarks section of DD Form 98 and DD Form 398.

16. ☐ NEW FINGERPRINT CARD REQUIRED
☐ ITEMS ON SPH (PSQ) REQUIRE CORRECTION AND/OR COMPLETION.
☐ INTERIM REPORT FORWARDED. REQUEST REPORT OF ACTION TAKEN AND RETURN OF INCLOSURES UPON COMPLETION.

INCLS
TYPED NAME AND TITLE
MYRON K. HAYASHIDA
1LT, AGC

SIGNATURE
DATE

SECTION II - CONTROL OFFICE TO REQUESTER

NW 88613 DocId:34530123 Page 2
For Official Use Only

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SECTION III - REQUESTER TO CONTROL OFFICE

17. REPORT OF ACTION
☐ INFORMATION NOTED ☐ SUBJECT REASSIGNED TO NON-SENSITIVE DUTIES, INVESTIGATION MAY BE CANCELED. ☐ INFORMATION CONSIDERED NO BAR TO CLEARANCE. REQUEST COMPLETION OF INVESTIGATION.

18. SUBJECT WAS TRANSFERRED TO HEADQUARTERS PER DATED

19. REMARKS (If returning corrected forms, state here)
INCLS TYPED NAME AND TITLE SIGNATURE DATE

SECTION IV - CONTROL OFFICE TO ACTION AGENCY

20. RESULTS OF PERSONNEL SECURITY ACTION
☐ NO RECORD ☐ FAVORABLE ☐ MINOR UNFAVORABLE INFORMATION RECORDED IN ITEM 21
☐ PRIOR INVESTIGATION INSUFFICIENT FOR ACTION CONTEMPLATED ☐ FORWARDED FOR SECURITY DETERMINATION BY CLEARING AUTHORITY
IF NEEDED, INITIATE REQUEST FOR INVESTIGATION.

21. REMARKS
a. TYPE OF INVESTIGATION
☐ NACI ☐ NAC ☑ OTHER
COMPLETED BY USAINIC DATE 16 Feb 67
DOSSIER NUMBER HI 01 69 40

THIS FORM, TOGETHER WITH ANY INCLOSURES, REPORT OF ACTION TAKEN AND USACRF COPY OF DA FORM 873 (if appropriate) WILL BE RETURNED TO THE CONTROL OFFICE WITHIN DAYS AFTER RECEIPT.

b. IN THE EVENT SUBJECT HAS BEEN TRANSFERRED FROM YOUR COMMAND, THIS FORM AND INCLOSURES WILL BE RETURNED IMMEDIATELY WITH ITEM 23 COMPLETED.

c. ATTENTION IS INVITED TO: PARAGRAPHS AR 604-5; PARAGRAPH AR 604-11; PARAGRAPH AR 640-98; AND PARAGRAPH AR 381-130, AS APPLICABLE.

INCLS
TYPED NAME AND TITLE
DAN H. DIETRICH, Jr.
Col, AIS, Chief, Ops III

SIGNATURE
DATE

SECTION V - ACTION AGENCY TO CONTROL OFFICE

22. REPORT OF ACTION
☐ FAVORABLE DETERMINATION, USACRF COPY DA FORM 873 ATTACHED ☐ UNFAVORABLE DETERMINATION, RECOMMENDED ACTION IN ITEM 24 ☐ REQUEST ADDITIONAL INVESTIGATION AS INDICATED IN ITEM 24

23. SUBJECT WAS TRANSFERRED TO HEADQUARTERS PER DATED

24. REMARKS

INCLS
TYPED NAME AND TITLE
SIGNATURE
DATE

NW 88613 DocId:34530123 Page 3
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
