JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

**AGENCY INFORMATION**

Date: 01/13/98
Page: 1
AGENCY: INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER: 194-10004-10138
RECORDS SERIES: DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: PAGES 27-27A

**DOCUMENT INFORMATION**

ORIGINATOR: USA
FROM: DIETRICH, DAN H. JR
TO: USA PERSONNEL SECURITY GROUP
TITLE: [RESTRICTED]
DATE: 06/13/67
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS: FROMER, DAVID REED, LOCAL FBI (S) FILE CHECK
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS 03/07/95
DATE OF LAST REVIEW:
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: INCLOSURES NOT INCLUDED. RECORD REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED ON 2 SEP 94

SECTION III - REQUESTER TO CONTROL OFFICE

17. REPORT OF ACTION
INFORMATION NOTED SUBJECT REASSIGNED TO NON-SENSITIVE DUTIES, INVESTIGATION CLEARANCE. REQUEST COMPLETION
INFORMATION CONSIDERED NO BAR TO
MAY BE CANCELED. OF INVESTIGATION.

18. SUBJECT WAS TRANSFERRED
TO HEADQUARTERS PER DATED

19. REMARKS (If returning corrected forms, state here)
INCLS. TYPED NAME AND TITLE SIGNATURE

SECTION IV - CONTROL OFFICE TO ACTION AGENCY

20. RESULTS OF PERSONNEL SECURITY ACTION
[ ] NO RECORD [ ] FAVORABLE [ ] MINOR UNFAVORABLE INFORMATION RECORDED IN ITEM 21
[ ] PRIOR INVESTIGATION INSUFFICIENT FOR ACTION CONTEMPLATED FORWARDED FOR SECURITY DETERMINATION BY CLEARING AUTHORITY
IF NEEDED, INITIATE REQUEST FOR INVESTIGATION.

TYPE OF INVESTIGATION DATE DOSSIER NUMBER
[ ] NAC [ ] NACI [X] OTHER 13 Jun 67 564 58 8137

21. REMARKS
COMPLETED BY USAINTC
a. THIS FORM, TOGETHER WITH ANY INCLOSURES, REPORT OF ACTION TAKEN AND USACRF COPY OF DA FORM 873 (if appropriate) WILL BE RETURNED TO THE CONTROL OFFICE WITHIN DAYS AFTER RECEIPT.
b. IN THE EVENT SUBJECT HAS BEEN TRANSFERRED FROM YOUR COMMAND, THIS FORM AND INCLOSURES WILL BE RETURNED IMMEDIATELY WITH ITEM 23 COMPLETED.
c. ATTENTION IS INVITED TO: PARAGRAPHS AR 604-5; PARAGRAPH AR 604-11; PARAGRAPH AR 640-98; AND PARAGRAPH AR 381-130, AS APPLICABLE.

INCLS n/c
TYPED NAME AND TITLE SIGNATURE
DAN H. DIETRICH, JR.
ITC, AIS, CHIEF, JCOP-III

SECTION V - ACTION AGENCY TO CONTROL OFFICE

22. REPORT OF ACTION
[ ] FAVORABLE DETERMINATION, USACRF [ ] UNFAVORABLE DETERMINATION, RESCINDED PER DA MESSAGE
COPY DA FORM 873 ATTACHED RECOMMENDED ACTION IN ITEM 24 DA 765975; DATED 10 MAY 60

23. SUBJECT WAS TRANSFERRED
TO HEADQUARTERS PER DATED

24. REMARKS Regraded Unclassified When Separated From Classified Inclosures BY CDRO
and Marked AUTH Para 1-010 DOD 5200.1R
"FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY - This Protective
Marking is Excluded From Automatic Termination"

INCLS TYPED NAME AND TITLE SIGNATURE
REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED
ON 2 Sep 94

REQUEST FOR AND RESULTS OF PERSONNEL SECURITY ACTION
(AR 381-130)

TO: (Control Office) THRU: DATE 5 May 1967
DCS-OPS
USAINTC USAPSG
ATTN: OPS III (Mr. Burwasser) Fort Holabird, Md.

FROM: (Requesting Agency)
(Enter name and address of the ACTION AGENCY to which results are to be sent, if known by requester)

CONTROL OFFICE USE ONLY
REQUIREMENT REQUEST NO.
U.S. Army Personnel Security Group
Fort Holabird, Maryland 21219
ATTN: Adjudications Division

DOSSIER NO.
OPENING DATE
REMARKS
REC'D 7129 ICOP III

SECTION I - REQUESTER TO CONTROL OFFICE

1. SUBJECT (Last name in capitals, first and middle names) 2. ALIAS(ES), MAIDEN NAME 3. SERVICE/SOCIAL SECURITY NO.
FROMER, David Reed None 564-58-8137

4. DATE OF BIRTH 5. PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State and country) 6. GRADE AND POSITION
(Day, Month, Year) Chicago, Illinois Registrant
21 July 1942

7. REQUESTED ACTION 8. TYPE OF INVESTIGATION: 9. FOR CLEARANCE AND/OR ACCESS TO:
[X] INVESTIGATION [ ] NAC [ ] NACI [X] OTHER [ ] TOP SECRET [ ] SECRET [ ] CONFIDENTIAL
[ ] VALIDATION RECORDS CHECK

10. TO DETERMINE SUITABILITY FOR: b. [ ] FOR LIMITED ACCESS AUTHORIZATION
11. JUSTIFICATION c. [ ] INTERIM CLEARANCE DESIRED
d. [X] OTHER (Explain in Item 15)
12. REVIEW OF FILES REQUIRED BY PARAGRAPH AR 604-5, COMPLETED ON REVEALED:
[ ] NO UNFAVORABLE INFORMATION [ ] UNFAVORABLE INFORMATION DETERMINED NOT TO BE A BAR TO ACTION CONTEMPLATED
[ ] INFORMATION SUMMARIZED IN ITEM 15

13. LATEST INVESTIGATION/CLEARANCE (Type, when, by whom)
14. NO BREAK IN FEDERAL SERVICE EXCEEDING SIX MONTHS SINCE

15. REMARKS (If unfavorable information entered, transmit in sealed envelope thru intelligence channels.)
Request that Headquarters and Local FBI (S) file checks be conducted on SUBJECT's parents.
"Request this investigation be expedited as determination under AR 604-10 is being delayed at Department of the Army pending results".

INCLS TYPED NAME AND TITLE SIGNATURE DATE
Dossier 564588137 J B FINNEGAN
re SUBJECT COL AIS
REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED
ON 2 Sep 94

SECTION II - CONTROL OFFICE TO REQUESTER
1.6. [ ] NEW FINGERPRINT CARD REQUIRED
INCLS [ ] ITEMS ON SPH (PSQ) REQUIRE CORRECTION AND/OR COMPLETION.
n/c [ ] INTERIM REPORT FORWARDED. REQUEST REPORT OF ACTION TAKEN AND RETURN OF INCLOSURES UPON COMPLETION.
TYPED NAME AND TITLE SIGNATURE
DA FORM 2784
APR 64
