Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#: NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

Date: 07/19/96
Page: 1

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER: 194-10012-10400
RECORDS SERIES: DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: ZF000003W - PAGES 785-787

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: USA
FROM: DCSI USCOB BERLIN
TO: OPSI USAREUR HEIDELBERG
TITLE: MESSAGE
DATE: 12/02/67
PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS: SLOVODA, VLADIMIR
POSSIBLE US ARMY DESERTERS
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/20/95
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: PAGES 785-787 WERE REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED ON 22 SEP 94.

NW 88613 DocId:34531087 Page 1

CONFIDENTIAL
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
NATIONAL MILITARY COMMAND CENTER
MESSAGE CENTER

465341 54525
B041N JCS 738/5 CALL 53337
VZ CZ CTEA 358 67339 FOR NMCC/MC
PP RUEPJS 07853 2316 SERVICE
DE RUFPBK 039 3390945
ZNY CCCCC L05-18 162
P 05 0945Z DEC 67
FM USCINCEUR
INFO DIA DIACI WASH DC
P 021230Z DEC 67 GP 4
FM DCSI USCOB BERLIN GER.
TO DPSI USAREUR HEIDELBERG GER
SGD CARPENTER 110-303-67 FROM: DCSI, USCOB

SUBJECT: POSSIBLE US DESERTERS (U)

1. (C) ON 28 NOVEMBER 1967, WEST BERLIN POLICE ADVISED
THAT THE FOLLOWING PERSONS, DESERTERS FROM THE AMERICAN
ARMY, WERE POSSIBLY IN WEST BERLIN:

PETER SIMONS
BORN 5 MAY 1943 IN GERMANY

ROMAN ARNOLD
BORN 6 JANUARY 1945, PRESUMABLY IN GERMANY

2. (C) THIS INFORMATION WAS RECEIVED FROM THE DUS-
SELDORF POLICE, WHO REQUESTED THAT THE INDIVIDUALS BE
TAKEN INTO CUSTODY AND TURNED OVER TO THE AMERICAN MILITARY
POLICE. DURING A VISIT IN DUESSELDORF IN LATE OCTOBER, THE
TWO MENTIONED THAT THEY WANTED TO GO TO BERLIN TO AN
UNIDENTIFIED STUDENT ORGANIZATION. THEY FURTHER STATED
THAT THEY DID NOT WANT TO GO TO VIETNAM.

3. (C) THIS SAME MESSAGE WAS SENT TO THE FRANKFURT /
MAIN POLICE, INASMUCH AS SIMONS HAS A GIRL FRIEND THERE,
AND HIS FATHER ALSO RESIDES IN THAT CITY. INSTRUCTIONS TO THE
FRANKFURT POLICE WERE THE SAME.

4. (C) ON 1 DECEMBER 1967, THE WEST BERLIN POLICE REPORTED
THAT THE TWO MEN HAD BEEN REGISTERED IN THE FRENCH SECTOR SINCE
27 SEPTEMBER 1967 AT FALKENTHALER STEIG 140, C/O DECH, BERLIN-
HERMSFDORF. POLICE ARE DEFERRING ANY ACTION IN THAT MATTER.

5. (C) CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES HAVE VERIFIED THAT THE TWO MEN
HAVE BEEN IN WEST BERLIN ON SEVERAL OCCASIONS IN OCTOBER AND

ACTION: DIA-15
INFO: CJCS-1 DJS-3 J1-2 SDEF-7 ASD/ISA-9 ASD/MPR-1 ST-1 CIA-4
CSA-1 CNO-2 CSAF-1 CMC-7 FILE-1(55) ETO/RA

DA IN 465341 PAGE 1 OF 3

NW 88613 DocId:34531087 Page 2

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
NATIONAL MILITARY COMMAND CENTER
MESSAGE CENTER

NOVEMBER, WITH THEIR EXACT WHERE ABOUTS UNKNOWN. THEY HAVE RETAINED
ATTORNEY HORST MAHLER TO REPRESENT THEIR INTERESTS. IT APPEARS
THAT ARNOLD IS TRYING TO OBTAIN YUGOSLAVIAN CITIZENSHIP. THE
STUDENT ORGANIZATION HAS BEEN IDENTIFIED AS THE FREE UNIVERSITY
ASTA, OR GENERAL STUDENTS COMMITTEE, THE STUDENT BODY ORGANIZATION.
STUDENTS HAVE BEEN IDENTIFIED AS ACTIVE IN THE AREA OF OFFERING
TO ASSIST LOCAL MILITARY PERSONNEL WHO WISH TO AVOID SERVICE IN
VIETNAM BY GOING TO A NEUTRAL COUNTRY.

6. (U) INFORMATION ON DD FORM 553 RECEIVED BY TELEPHONE FROM
POLICE DUSSELDORF INDICATES FOLLOWING DATA:

ARNOLD, ROMAN, SP4 E4
RA 16 838 163
SSN: 355-36-1583
SPECIAL PROCESSING DET, HQ USAG TROOPS
FT HOOD, TEXAS
DATE AND LOCATION OF ENTRY INTO ACTIVE DUTY: 15 OCT 67,
AF EES, CHICAGO, ILL.
ABSENT AS OF: 21 SEP 67, 0515 HRS
CARRIED AS DESERTER AS OF: 10 OCT 67
MOS: 36C 20
DOB: 6 JAN 45, POB: GERMANY

SIMONS, PETER K., SP4 E4
RA 19 841 799
SSN: 550-66-6254
SAME UNIT
DATE AND LOCATION OF ENTRY INTO ACTIVE DUTY: 28 APR 65,
US ARMY RMS, LOS ANGELES, CA
ABSENT AS OF: 21 SEP 67, 0515 HRS
CARRIED AS DESERTER AS OF: 10 OCT 67
MOS: 31M 20 (RADIO RELAY OPERATOR)
DOB: 5 MAY 43, POB: COTTBUS, GERMANY

7. (C) ATTEMPTS BEING MADE TO ASCERTAIN IF SIMONS AND ARNOLD
ARE IN BERLIN AND TO DEVELOP INFORMATION ON THE PERSONS AND
ORGANIZATIONS RENDERING ASSISTANCE TO THESE US ARMY DESERTERS. IT
IS NOT KNOWN AT THIS TIME WHETHER SUBJECTS ARE US CITIZENS OR

DA IN 465341 PAGE 2 OF 3

NW 88613 DocId:34531087 Page 3

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
NATIONAL MILITARY COMMAND CENTER
MESSAGE CENTER

GERMAN NATIONALS. WEST BERLIN POLICE RECORDS INDICATE SIMONS IN
POSSESSION OF FRG PASSPORT NR 2616712 AND THAT ARNOLD WAS UNABLE TO
PRODUCE ANY IDENTITY DOCUMENTS. GP-4

8. (C) ADVERSE PUBLICITY AND STUDENT DEMONSTRATIONS MAY RESULT
WHEN SUBJECTS ARE APPREHENDED. THERE ARE NO LEGAL PROBLEMS SEEN
EITHER BY THE SJA, USCOB OR BY USBER. MINISTER HAS BEEN BRIEFED
AND USBER IS PROVIDING DETAILS TO U. S. EMBASSY, BONN.

9. (C) UNLESS OTHERWISE DIRECTED BY USAREUR OR US EMBASSY BONN
THE FOLLOWING ACTIONS WILL BE TAKEN IF SUBJECTS ARE DETERMINED TO
BE IN BERLIN.

A. WEST BERLIN POLICE WILL BE ASKED TO APPREHEND
SUBJECTS. US MILITARY POLICE WILL ACCOMPANY THE WEST BERLIN
POLICE.

B. SUBJECTS WILL BE APPREHENDED AS QUIETLY AS POS-
SIBLE AND TAKEN TO BERLIN BRIGADE STOCKADE AND PLACED IN
SEPARATE ROOMS.

C. SPECIAL ARRANGEMENTS HAVE BEEN COORDINATED
FOR C47 AIRCRAFT STATIONED AT EMPLEHOF TO FLY SUBJECTS
TO RHEIN MAIN IMMEDIATELY AFTER APPREHENSION DUE TO
POSSIBLE ADVERSE PUBLICITY AND STUDENT REACTIONS.

10. (C) DIRECT COORDINATION WITH MILITARY POLICE AT RHEIN
MAIN WILL BE ACCOMPLISHED BY PM BERLIN BRIGADE. HOWEVER, RECOM-
MEND USAREUR COORDINATE ARRANGEMENTS FOR ONWARD MOVEMENT FROM
RHEIN MAIN. GP-4

NNNN

PAGE 3 OF 3
ACTION: DIA (ARMY ACSI)

DA IN 465341 PAGE 3

NW 88613 DocId:34531087 Page 4
