```markdown
Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#: NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: INSCOM/CSF
Date: 01/20/98
Page: 1

RECORD NUMBER: 194-10002-10091
RECORDS SERIES: DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: PAGES 274-370

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: [ RESTRICTED ]
TO: [ RESTRICTED ]
TITLE:
DATE: 05/31/67
PAGES: 97
SUBJECTS:
FROMER, DAVID R.
FROMER, IRVING RHODES
COMMUNIST PARTY ACTIVITIES
AMERICAN-RUSSIAN INSTITUTE OF SAN FRANCISCO
CITIZENS COMMITTEE FOR CONSTITUTIONAL LIBERTIES
FLYNN, ELIZABETH GURLEY
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA COMMITTEE FOR THE PROTECTION OF THE
FOREIGN BORN
SAN FRANCISCO CITIZENS COMMITTEE TO PRESERVE AMERICAN
FREEDOMS
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
COMPLETION OF REVIEW BY FBI
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/12/97
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: COORDINATION WITH FBI HAS BEEN COMPLETED AND
DETERMINED TO BE RELEASABLE, PER MEMO DTD 17 OCT 1997.

---

AGENT REPORT
(FM 30-17)

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT:
FROMER, David Reed
SSvc Registrant
DPOB: 21 July 1942, Chicago, Illinois

2. DATE SUBMITTED: 31 May 1967
3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER:
7129-6003
564-58-8137

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

(U) (LOCAL AGENCY-SUBJECT'S FATHER) On 23 May 1967, files of the San
Francisco Office (SFO), Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), 450 Golden
Gate Avenue, San Francisco, California, were examined regarding Irving Fromer
for any information subsequent to 1 February 1962 by a representative of
Source who furnished the following:

(C) The representative furnished a copy of a report, SFO FBI, dated 27
March 1962, Field Office File No: 100-33836, Title: Irving Rhodes Fromer,
classified CONFIDENTIAL, which is attached as EXHIBIT VII. This report
contains information regarding Fromer's communist activities.

(C) The representative furnished a copy of a report, SFO FBI, dated 29
March 1963, Field Office File No: 100-33836, Title: Irving Rhodes Fromer,
classified CONFIDENTIAL, which is attached as EXHIBIT VIII. This report
contains information regarding Fromer's communist activities.

(C) The representative furnished a copy of a report, SFO FBI, dated 30
March 1964, Field Office File No: 100-33836, Title: Irving Rhodes Fromer,
classified CONFIDENTIAL, which is attached as EXHIBIT IX. This report
contains information regarding Fromer's communist activities.

(C) The representative furnished a copy of a report, SFO FBI, dated 30
March 1965, Field Office File No: 100-33836, Title: Irving Rhodes Fromer,
classified CONFIDENTIAL, which is attached as EXHIBIT X. This report
contains information regarding Fromer's communist activities.

(C) The representative furnished a copy of a report, SFO FBI, dated 14
March 1966, Field Office File No: 100-33836, Title: Irving Rhodes Fromer,
classified CONFIDENTIAL, which is attached as EXHIBIT XI. This report
contains information regarding Fromer's communist activities.

(C) The representative furnished a copy of a report, SFO FBI, dated 28
March 1967, Field Office File No: 100-33836, Title: Irving Rhodes Fromer,
classified CONFIDENTIAL, which is attached as EXHIBIT XII. This report
contains information regarding Fromer's communist activities.

AGENT'S NOTE: Exhibits are attached to the original only of this report.

5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT:
EUGENE J. POWER, 115th MI Group (I)

6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT:

DECLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD KSR
ON 4-19-96 (JFK).

FORM
1 APR 52
341
REPLACES WD AGO FORM 341, 1 JUN 47, WHICH MAY BE USED.
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1962.OF-656148

---

Exhibit Number: VII
SUBJECT:
EXHIBIT COVER SHEET
File Number:
FROMER, David Reed
SSvc Registrant
DPOB: 21 July 1942, Chicago, Illinois
7129-6003
564-58-8137
Preparing Unit: 115th MI Group ( I )
Agent Report Dated: 31 May 1967
Description:
Report, SFO FBI dated 27 March 62 re SUBJECT'S father

REVIEWED BY FBI/JFK TASK FORCE
ON 10/15/91

RELEASE IN FULL
RELEASE IN PART
TOTAL DENIAL

DECLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD KSR
ON 4-19-96 (JFK).

Classification
ICGP-F Form, 2-25
(Rev 25 Mar 66)

---

FD-204 (Rev. 3-3-59)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

Report of: SA FRANCIS T. DAVIS
Date: 3/27/62
Office: SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA

Field Office File No.: Bureau File No.:
San Francisco 100-33836 100-365779

Title: IRVING RHODES FROMER
Character: INTERNAL SECURITY - C

Synopsis:

Subject resides 881 Clayton Street, San Francisco, and is employed
as an architectural draftsman through American Institute of
Architects, 47 Kearny Street, San Francisco. Subject reported to
be member Lincoln Club, SFCCP and reported in attendance at
SFCCPAF, CCCL and ARI meetings.

REVIEWED BY FBI/JFK TASK FORCE
ON 10/15/91

RELEASE IN FULL
RELEASE IN PART
TOTAL DENIAL

DECLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD KSR
ON 4-19-96 (JFK).

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and
its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

---

SF 100-33836
FTD/rew

DETAILS:
I. BACKGROUND

Residence

The Subject resides at 881 Clayton Street, San
Francisco.

Mr. E. A. PAULSEN
879 Clayton Street
San Francisco on
3/15/62.

Employment

The Subject is employed as an architectural draftsman
for various architects and construction projects in the San
Francisco area obtaining his employment through the placement
service of the American Institute of Architects, 47 Kearny
Street, San Francisco.

Mrs. ETHEL SMITH
Executive Director,
AIA, on 3/21/62

II. COMMUNIST PARTY (CP) AND RELATED ACTIVITIES

San Francisco County Communist Party (SFCCP)

The Subject is a member of the Lincoln Club, SFCCP,
and although he has recently moved into the area which
encompasses the members of the Sunset Club, SFCCP, he has not
as yet effected a transfer into the Sunset Club.

SF T-1 - 3/15/62

American-Russian Institute of San Francisco (ARI)

The ARI has been designated by the Attorney
General of the United States pursuant to
Executive Order 10450.

The Subject attended the 30th Anniversary celebration
of the ARI, which was held at 150 Golden Gate Avenue, San
Francisco, on November 19, 1961. The purpose of this meeting
was also to celebrate the 44th anniversary of the Russian

---

SF 100-33836
FTD/rew

revolution and the 75th birthday of the Secretary of the ARI.
One of the speakers at this meeting told of his trip to New
Delhi and the Soviet Union. He said the Soviet Union, Cuba,
and China have been accused of suppressing rights, freedom,
religion and speech. He said that this was not true. These
countries do not want soap box criticisms but they respect the
broader right of the majority and sometimes individual rights
have to give way to the rights of the majority.

The guest speaker at this meeting was DMITRY MURAYEV,
who was introduced as a Cultural Attache with the Soviet
Embassy. He presented the Secretary of the ARI with a gold
watch and read a prepared speech. He said Russia wants peace
and that the U.S. and Russia fought together during the war
and still can be friends but Nazi elements in Germany are
being supported by the U.S. Government. He said Russia would
disarm if disarmament could be agreed upon but now the U.S.
has rearmed Germany and they have the second largest army in
Europe with rockets, tanks, and atomic weapons. He said the
Russians are ready to defend their homeland against the Germans
and felt that they had to do something to dramatize their
readiness to defend themselves so they resumed atomic testing.

SF T-2 - 11/20/61

The Subject attended a reception sponsored by the
ARI and held at the Sheraton-Palace Hotel in San Francisco, on
January 20, 1962. This reception honored a group of visitors
from the Soviet Union.

HOLLAND ROBERTS, President of the ARI, and M. N.
DONKACHEV, a member of the Board of the Institute of Soviet-
American Relations, gave speeches which stressed cultural
exchange and friendship.

SF T-3 - 1/22/62

Citizens Committee for Constitutional Liberties (CCCL)

See Appendix Page.

The Subject attended a meeting sponsored by the CCCL
held at 150 Golden Gate Avenue on December 15, 1961. At this
meeting a monologue was presented entitled "Are You Now Or Have
You Ever Been A Horse Thief?", which was a satire on the
McCarran Act.

---

SF 100-33836
FTD/rew

A skit was then presented to represent the petition
of the Communist Party before the Supreme Court in regard to
the registration provisions of the McCarran Act. After the
skit, MICKEY LIMA was introduced as Chairman of the Northern
California District of the CP, who would present his views on
the registration. LIMA read a statement in which he said that
the CP in good conscience could not and would not register
because to do so would violate the law of self-incrimination.
If the CP registered, they would admit to being spies,
saboteurs, and agents of a foreign power.

LIMA said that the CP is leading the fight for
freedom. If the present trend continues, the Government can
later attack the labor unions and the National Association
for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP). The ruling
party in the Government will be able to get any group they
wish to register.

SF 7-2 - 12/10/61

Subject attended a meeting sponsored by the CCCL
held at 150 Golden Gate Avenue, San Francisco, on January 24,
1962. The Chairman of the meeting gave an opening statement
of the purpose of the CCCL and the purpose of the meeting.
He mentioned that the Bill of Rights is under attack and that
the military forces are controlling the Government and the
press and that civil rights are being repressed. He said that
these things are of concern to the Committee and they have
asked GUS HALL to present his views of the current situation.

HALL then spoke and said that he is presently on a
lecture tour all over the country presenting the views of the
CP. He mentioned that he had requests to speak at schools all
over the United States. He said that the CP is being prevented
by law and by control of the press from expressing their views
and that they only want the right of free speech which is being
denied them.

HALL said that at a recent press conference he was
asked to give his position in the Party both now and prior to
June 6, 1961. He told the press at that time that he could be
referred to as an authoritative spokesman for communism.

HALL said that the people don't really know what
the McCarran law means. When the law went into effect he was

---

SF 100-33836
FTD/rew

supposed to register. He has been indicted already and is
under possible sentence of 500 years in jail and $1,000,000
fine. HALL went on to say that he went to jail under the
Smith Act and that for thirty years the Government has tried
to prove that the CP has been advocating the violent
overthrow of the Government and that all communists are agents
of a foreign power and are espionage agents etc. but has failed
to do so.

According to HALL, the McCarran Act came into
being during the McCarthy era when the Administration was
being pressured to prosecute communists. The Attorney General
said the Government couldn't prosecute them as they did not
have the necessary evidence. Congress decided to get around
the courts by legislative enactment. They appointed a political
committee and presented a lot of illegal and unconstitutional
evidence and came up with a finding that the communists are
agents of a foreign power and spies and saboteurs.

HALL said that, according to the Attorney General,
the present Act is simply a registration statute similar to
registrations of foreigners, voters, dealers in securities, etc.
However, a recent decision of the Supreme Court held that it
is not necessary to be a card carrying member of the CP or do
an act which is generally attributed to communists but it is
only necessary to have a state of mind and be in sympathy
with any of the objectives of communism and you could be
prosecuted under the law.

HALL said assuming he did register, he would have
to register each official and member of the Party and if he
didn't, they would be required to register or be liable to
$10,000 fine and ten years imprisonment for each day they
failed to register. He would also be required to register any
communist organization or any association or organization that
has affiliation with the CP. He must also list every typewriter,
mimeograph machine, photostat machine, and printing press by
serial number. HALL said that you can begin to see the
diabolical threat of fascism which is beginning to become real.
He said that in addition to these penalties, he can receive
the death penalty in Texas, a life sentence in other states
and sentences of 20 to 50 years in other states. He is also
prohibited from obtaining Veterans or Government housing,
employment in the teaching profession, from making movies in

---

SF 100-33836
FTD/rew

Hollywood, or plays on Broadway under this Act. He said
that communists can't even work in Government atomic plants.

HALL said that California has more native right-wing
support than any other state and it is the idea of certain
right-wingers to unite these organizations under one group.
He said that is how Nazism came about and they won't stop with
the CP. HALL said that the reason the right-wing is making
such an onslaught is because a different Social system
is overtaking capitalism and many of the older people find
it difficult to accept the new philosophy of life and they oppose
it.

SP T-2 - 1/25/62

San Francisco Citizens Committee to Preserve American Freedoms
(SFCCPAF)

See Appendix Page.

The Subject attended a fund raising party sponsored
by the SFCCPAF for FRANK WILKINSON held at 959 Ashbury Street,
San Francisco, on February 17, 1962.

WILKINSON gave a speech in which he denounced the
Government and the Supreme Court for the decisions they have
handed down outlawing the CP. He predicted that an irate
populace would soon force the Supreme Court to change its
position on these issues.

He spoke of his jail experiences and condemned the
Government for segregating the staffs of the Federal prisons.

SF T-4 - 2/20/62

In an article in the "San Francisco Examiner"
newspaper of March 20, 1961, it was noted that WILKINSON was
convicted of contempt of Congress for refusing to state before
the House Committee on Un-American Activities whether he had
ever been a member of the CP. His sentence of one year in
Jail was upheld by the United States Supreme Court.

"People's World" (PW)

The PW is a west coast communist newspaper
published in San Francisco.

---

SP 100-33836
FTD/rew

The Subject attended a PW bazaar through the period
December 8 - 10, 1961.

SD T- 12/11/61

---

SF 100-33836
FTD/rew

CITIZENS COMMITTEE TO PRESERVE AMERICAN FREEDOMS

A source advised on May 4, 1960, that the
Citizens Committee to Preserve American Freedoms (CCPAF) was
organized in Los Angeles, California, in January, 1952,
for the announced purpose of supporting a number of
individuals from the medical and legal professions who had
been subpoenaed to appear before the House Committee on
Un-American Activities.

Since its establishment, the CCPAF, in extending
its scope, has worked for the abolition of all Congressional,
State, and local committees investigating subversive
activities and in the latter part of 1954 became very active
in opposition to State and Federal legislation directed
at the Communist movement.

FRANK WILKINSON, Executive Secretary of the
CCPAF, is described by the source as the "brains and energy"
behind the organization.

Another source advised on September 17, 1952,
that FRANK WILKINSON was a Communist Party member as of
September, 1952.

APPENDIX PAGE

---

SF 100-33836
FTD/rew

SAN FRANCISCO CITIZENS COMMITTEE
TO PRESERVE AMERICAN FREEDOMS (SFCCPAF)

A source advised on April 7, 1960, that a San
Francisco affiliate of the Citizens Committee to Preserve
American Freedoms (CCPAF) had been established at a meeting
held in San Francisco on April 4, 1960. The source advised
that the San Francisco affiliate, to be known as the San
Francisco CCPAF, would carry out in Northern California,
the program of the CCPAF.

Source advised on May 15, 1961, that the San
Francisco CCPAF is active.

APPONEIX PAGE

---

SF 100-33836
FTDrew

CITIZENS COMMITTEE FOR CONSTITUTIONAL
LIBERTIES (NORTHERN CALIFORNIA)

A source advised on June 19, 1961, that MICKEY
LIMA, Chairman, Northern California District, Communist
Party (CP), reported on June 15, 1961, that the CP, USA,
in response to the Supreme Court decision of June 5, 1961,
relating to the Internal Security Act of 1950 (ISA-50) had
decided to create a committee known as Citizens Committee
for Constitutional Liberties (CCCL), 22 East 17th Street,
New York City, and that a local committee would be
organized for Northern California.

This source advised on June 26, 1961, that a
meeting was held on June 18, 1961, at the home of ROSCOE
PROCTOR, member of the National Committee, CP, USA, for the
purpose of formulating the CCCL for Northern California.

A second source advised on September 14, 1961, that
the CCCL had opened an office at 942 Market Street, Room 401,
San Francisco, California, and that some of the furniture for
this office had come from the CP office on the same floor.

A third source advised on September 25, 1961,
that MICKEY LIMA (Supra) had indicated no further organizational
efforts would be expended on the CCCL in Northern California
until the local CP resolves its policy with regard to this
committee.

APPENDIX PAGE

---

SF 100-33836
FTD/rew

CITIZENS COMMITTEE FOR CONSTITUTIONAL
LIBERTIES

A source advised on June 11, 1961, that a meeting
of the National Executive Committee (NEC), Communist Party,
USA (CFUSA), was held on June 10, 1961, at CP headquarters,
23 West 26th Street, New York, New York. According to the
source, the main topic of discussion at this meeting was
the CP's plans in regard to combating the June 5, 1961,
decision of the United States Supreme Court, requiring the
CP to register with the Attorney General of the United States
as a communist-action organization pursuant to the provisions
of the Subversive Activities Control Act of 1950 and the
Court's decision of the same date upholding the April 21,
1955, conviction of Junius Scales under the Smith Act
provision covering membership in the CP. This source further
advised that during this discussion a special CP defense
committee was formed and it was decided that this committee
would have an office, which would be managed by Miriam Fried-
lander who, according to the source, is a member of the CPUSA
National Committee.

Another source advised on June 14, 1961, that at a
meeting of the CPUSA National Board and invited guests held on
that date at CP headquarters, New York City, it was announced
that the CP defense committee would have an office at 22 East
17th Street, New York, New York, under the name of the
Citizens Committee for Constitutional Liberties (CCCL).

A third source advised on July 20, 1961, that at a
meeting of the CP defense committee held on that date at CP
headquarters, New York City, the purpose and scope of the CCCL
was discussed. It was stated that this committee has been set
up to serve as a national coordinator and service center for
every effort being made by whatever source to repeal the
McCarran and Smith Acts. In addition, it has been set up to
reverse the Supreme Court's decision of June 5, 1961, or secure
an indefinite stay of any enforcement of the law by the Department
of Justice.

It is to engage in generating a popular defense move-
ment to mobilize legal assistance of any organization or
individual whose "democratic rights are infringed upon by
these laws." This committee wants to encourage the creation of
local organizations or groups to work in support of any one of
the above-stated objectives. The committee will also serve as
an exchange center of material and provide speakers for any
local organization.

---

FD-323 (3-28-60)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
San Francisco, California
March 27, 1962

In Reply, Please Refer to
File No.

Title IRVING RHODES FROMER
Character INTERNAL SECURITY - C
Reference Report of Special Agent FRANCIS T.
DAVIS dated and captioned as above at San Francisco.

All sources (except any listed below) used in referenced
communication have furnished reliable information in the past.

FTD/rew

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property
of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside
your agency.

---

Exhibit Number: VIII
SUBJECT:
EXHIBIT COVER SHEET
File Number:
FROMER, David Reed
SSvc Registrant
DOB: 21 July 1942, Chicago, Illinois
7129-6003
564-58-8137
Preparing Unit: 115th MI Group ( I )
Agent Report Dated: 31 May 1967
Description:
Report, SFO FBI dated 29 March 63 re SUBJECT'S father

REVIEWED BY FBI/JFK TASK FORCE
ON 10/15/92

RELEASE IN FULL
RELEASE IN PART
TOTAL DENIAL

DECLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD IKER
ON 4-19-96 (JFK).

Classification
ICGP-F Form 2-25
(Rev 25 Mar 66)

---

FD-204 (Rev. 3-3-59)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

Report of: SA FRANCIS T. DAVIS
Date: 3/29/53
Office: SAN FRANCISCO

Field Office File #: Bureau File #:
100-33836 100-305779

Title: IRVING RHODES FROMER
Character: SECURITY MATTER - C

Synopsis:

Subject resides 881 Clayton Street, San Francisco,
and is employed as an architectural draftsman through
American Institute of Architects, 47 Kearney Street,
San Francisco. Subject reported to be a member of
Lincoln Club, SFCCP and in attendance at public
meetings sponsored by PCCP, NCCFFB, SPCCPAF, ARI,
PW, FPCC, and NG.

DECLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD/KSR
ON 4-19-96 (JFK)

BACKGROUND

A. Residence

The Subject resides at 881 Clayton Street, San
Francisco, California.

REVIEWED BY FBI/JFK TASK FORCE
ON 10.12.97

RELEASE IN FULL
RELEASE IN PART
TOTAL DENIAL

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to
your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

---

SP 100-33836
FTD/1r

B. Employment

The Subject is employed as an Architectural Draftsman
for various architects and construction projects in the
San Francisco area, obtaining employment through the Placement
Service of the American Institute of Architects, 47 Kearney
Street, San Francisco.

(Mrs. ETHEL SMITH,
Executive Director,
AIA, 3/15/63)

II. COMMUNIST PARTY (CP) AND RELATED ACTIVITIES

A. San Francisco County CP (SFCCP)

SF T-2, a self-admitted former member of the CP in
the San Francisco area during the period from 1952 to 1957,
advised on November 5, 1962, that she knows IRVING FROMER
and his wife as members of the CP in San Francisco during
that period.

At a meeting of the Sunset Club, SFCCP, which was
held at 1235 42nd Avenue, San Francisco, on May 10, 1962, a
discussion was held regarding IRVING FROMER and his wife.
It was noted that the FROMERS had recently moved to the area
covered by the Sunset Club. HERB NUGENT, Chairman of the
SFCCP and a member of the Sunset Club, remarked that the
FROMERS are in the Lincoln Club, SFCCP, and that they are needed
in the Lincoln Club. He said, however, that the FROMERS do
not contribute much to Club life and this is one of the
problems of the Lincoln Club. He said that the Lincoln Club
had agreed to meet at the FROMERS house, and the FROMERS
didn't even arrive to attend meetings held at their own home.
NUGENT said that both of the FROMERS are active in other
mass organizations.

(SF T-3, 5/10/62)

IRVING FROMER is a member of the Lincoln Club, SFCCP.

(SF T-3, 3/1/63)

---

SF 100-33836
FTD/Ir

The Subject attended a May Day meeting held at 150
Golden Gate Avenue, San Francisco, on May 1, 1962, sponsored
by the San Francisco Free Speech Forum. The Free Speech Forum
was set up by the SFCCP to hold public meetings.

WALTER STACK, a member of the SFCCP, was chairman
of this meeting and spoke on the meeting of May Day as a labor
holiday.

ARCHIE BROWN, a member of the SFCCP, discussed his
conviction under the Landrum-Griffith Act. He said it is a test
case to see if the act is constitutional. They noted that he
was elected to the Executive Board of Local 10, International
Longshoremen's and Warehousemen's Union (ILWU), by members of
the local and it would make no difference if he resigned from
the CP because the Landrum-Griffith Act says a person must not
have been a member in the past five years.

RALPH IZARD, a member of the SFCCP, gave a speech
on the subject of government and monopolies. He said the
government should spend money on the unemployed, the sick,
and the ill-housed instead of spending money trying to dominate
former colonial countries trying to establish independence.

ELIZABETH GURLEY FLYNN, Chairman, CP of the United
States of America (CPUSA), was the featured speaker. She
said that things were different today for Communists under
indictment than when she was indicted under the Smith Act.
She said at that time all doors were shut to them, but now
all doors are open. She said that GUS HALL and BEN DAVIS,
Communist functionaries, have been speaking to students all
over the country. She said that the government knows
that she is the Chairman of the CPUSA but so far has not been
able to prove that she is a member of the CP. She said that
the State Department is trying to take away her passport under
the McCarran Act.

She also said that she had visited the Soviet Union
as a fraternal delegate to the Congress of the U.S.S.R. and
gave the Russians the greetings of the American people. She
also visited some of the Social Democracies and found no
unemployment there.

---

SF 100-33836
FTD/1r

She said that capitalism cannot solve the problems of
the people but the development of Socialism can.

(SP T-3, 5/11/52)

Subject's attendance at this meeting was verified.

(SF T-4, 5/2/32
SP T-5, 5/3/62
SF T-6, 5/8/52)

The Subject attended a public meeting sponsored by
the CP held at 150 Golden Gate Avenue on December 5, 1952.
MICKEY LIMA, Chairman of the Northern District of California
CP, was Master of Ceremonies at this meeting. He said that
he need not be introduced as everyone knew what his political
views were. He introduced JOHN APT, Legal Council for the CP
and Defense Attorney for CP members victimized by the McCarran
Committee.

JOHN APT spoke of the complexities of the McCarran
Act and how it had been used before in an attempt to convict
MICKEY LIMA and others, and he told how the government had
reversed the conviction on LIMA and the others because they
lacked evidence to prove their charges. Now, the government
is trying to get these people to confess to something that they
had failed to prove the first time.

APT stated that President TRUMAN vetoed the McCarran
Act on the grounds that it would put the government in the roll
of a dictator.

He also spoke of the concentration camps scattered
throughout the country and noted that anyone could be placed
in them if the government felt they were a danger to the
national war crisis.

He spoke of the flexibility of the McCarran Act,
which he said could be used against any citizen for any given
reason and at any given time.

---

SF 100-33836
FTD/1r

ELIZABETH GURLEY FLYNN also spoke and said she felt
slighted because she was not indicted for failure to register
along with GUS HALL and BEN DAVIS, however, she had some
satisfaction in that the government was trying to take her
passport from her.

(SF T-7, 12/5/62)

B. Northern California Committee for the Protection of the
Foreign Born (NCCPPB), and Committee for Constitutional
Liberties (CCL) (See Appendix Pages)

The Subject attended a conference sponsored by the
NCCPPE and CCL held at 739 Page Street, San Francisco, on
September 23, 1962. JEAN KRAMER, Chairman of the conference,
opened the meeting by stating that its purpose was to discuss
the WALTER MCCARRAN Act and the California "Little McCarran
Act" (Proposition 24 on the California Ballot)

KRAMER read a written speech which had been prepared
by LLOYD MC MURRAY Civil Liberties Attorney, who had planned
to attend the meeting but was unable to make it. MC MURRAY'S
speech dealt with the Chinese Confession Program which was
set up to give Chinese who were illegally in the country
protection if they came forth and told their real identity.
The main gist of the speech was condemning the Immigration
Service because of their policy of sending illegal
immigrants back to China.

The "San Francisco Call Bulletin" issue of
November 18, 1957, carried an article which stated that
JEAN KRAMER had been ordered deported as an alien who
belonged to the CP. The article stated that she came
to the United States in 1933 and was a CP member from
1933 to 1948.

LLOYD MC MURRAY was an active member of the CP
in San Francisco from 1946 to 1950.

(SF T-8, 6/23/55)

---

SF 100-33836
FTD/1r

LAURENT FRANTZ, introduced as an expert in
constitutional law and a writer and publisher, spoke on the
Walter McCarran Act and said that the security of the nation
is hampered by this act.

The "New York Guild Lawyer", volume 20, March and
April, 1962, a self-described publication of the National
Lawyers Guild, lists LAURENT FRANTZ as a member at large
of the National Executive Board, National Lawyers Guild
(NLG). (See appendix Page for NLG).

ROSE CHERNIN, introduced as the Executive Director
of the Committee for the Protection of the Foreign Born from
Los Angeles, said that the committee is fighting the Walter
McCarran Act and will not register as a communist front group.

Other speakers who spoke in favor of a repeal of
the McCarran Act included ROSCOE PROCTOR, HERBERT PHILLIPS,
and FRANK WILKINSON.

WILKINSON also urged for the abolishment of the
House Committee on Un-American