Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#: NW 88613
Date: 03-18-2025

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION

Date: 12/10/97
Page: 1

AGENCY: CSF/INSCOM
RECORD NUMBER: 194-10006-10300
RECORDS SERIES: DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: AC640653W-PAGES 12-14

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: USA
FROM: CO, 66TH MI GP
TO: DCSI, USAREUR
TITLE: MESSAGE
DATE: 03/20/72
PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS: KAMINSKI, HANS D
CI INTEREST
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED ON 2 SEP 94. DUPLICATE OF PAGES 7-9.

NW 88613 DocId:34530593 Page 1

PRIORITY
CC NR
NDA 011
PTTCZYUW UUFTD0298 0801431-CCCC--UUFTB.
ZNY
ICN ONLY
P 201400Z MAR 72

FM CO 66TH MI GP MUNICH FRG //AEUTMI-OP-CE//
TO DCSI USAREUR HEIDELBERG FRG//AEAGB-CI (SO)//
BT

THE FOLLOWING MESSAGE IS RETRANSMITTED FOR YOUR INFORMATION:
0 091100Z FEB 72

FM CO 165TH MI CO FRANKFURT FRG //AEUTMI-F-CI//
TO CO 66TH MI GP MUNICH FRG //AEUTMI-CE//
BT

AEUTMI-F-CE

SUBJECT: INCIDENT OF POSSIBLE CI INTEREST

1. AT 1100 HOURS, 1 FEB 72, LT HAYGOOD, HQ, 66TH USA ARTILLERY
DETACHMENT, SOEST (MC 3813), FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY (FRG),
CONTACTED THE DUESSELDORF FIELD OFFICE TO REPORT AN INCIDENT OF
AN UNIDENTIFIED PERSON ATTEMPTING TO ELLICIT OFFICIAL INFORMATION
FROM A MEMBER OF C TEAM, 66TH USA ARTILLERY DETACHMENT, DATELN
(CLC 8424), FRG.

2. LT KULESZA, COMMANDING OFFICER, C TEAM, 66TH USA ARTILLERY
DETACHMENT, STATED THAT HE WAS INFORMED BY A MEMBER OF HIS UNIT
THAT AN ATTEMPT TO OBTAIN OFFICIAL INFORMATION HAD TAKEN PLACE
IN DATELN ON 31 JAN 72. KULESZA WAS ABLE TO DETERMINE THAT
THREE OTHER MEMBERS OF HIS UNIT HAD BEEN CONTACTED BY THE SAME
PERSON IN THE AREA IN AN ATTEMPT TO OBTAIN INFORMATION.

3. THE FOLLOWING LISTED INDIVIDUALS OF C TEAM, 66TH USA ARTILLERY

NW 88613 DocId:34530593 Page 2

PAGE 2 UUFTF1334

DETACHMENT WERE APPROACHED BY THE UNKNOWN INDIVIDUAL:

A. PETER D. HERPS, PFC, 475-54-6972
B. PHILLIP W. MAY, PFC, 544-48-5481, CUSTODIAL AGENT.
C. STEPHEN R. WILSON, SP4, 167-40-2332, CLERK.
D. ROBERT M. CREED, SP4, 514-54-4745, GUARD.

4. ALL LISTED MEMBERS OF C TEAM HAVE BEEN INTERVIEWED BY SA'S
OF DUESSELDORF FIELD OFFICE.

5. A DESCRIPTION OF THE INDIVIDUAL SOLICITING THE INFORMATION IS
AS FOLLOWS:

A. NAME: "JOHN THE DEE JAY" AKA: JOHN DEE JAY AKA: HOHN
B. OCCUPATION: DISC JOCKEY AT THE LORD NELSON BAR, DATELN
C. HEIGHT: SIX FEET
D. WEIGHT: 190 POUNDS
E. BUILD: SLIGHT
F. HAIR: BLACK WITH LONG SIDEBURNS
G. DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS: NONE

6. ATTEMPTS ARE CURRENTLY BEING MADE THROUGH GERMAN CHANNELS TO
OBTAIN POSITIVE IDENTIFICATION OF JOHN DEE JAY.

7. JOHN DEE JAY SPEAKS RUSSIAN GERMAN SPANISH AND ENGLISH. HE HAS
EXPRESSED PROTEST SENTIMENTS AND HAS SAID HE HAD BEEN TO

NW 88613 DocId:34530593 Page 3

REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED
ON 2 Sep 94
BY CDR USAINSCOM F01/PO
AUTH Para 1-603 DOD 5200.1R

PAGE 3 UUFTE1334

MOSCOW, USSR, WHERE HE LEARNED TO SPEAK ENGLISH. HE CLAIMED TO
HAVE A COUSIN OR NEPHEW WHO IS A MAJOR IN THE GERMAN DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC (GDR) ARMY. HE ALLEGEDLY TRAVELS FREQUENTLY TO THE GDR
AND HAS EXPRESSED A DESIRE TO RETURN THERE TO LIVE BECAUSE
HE HATED THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY. HE IS EXTREMELY KNOW-
LEDGABLE ABOUT THINGS PERTAINING TO THE MILITARY. HE KNEW THE
EXACT DEPARTURE TIME, LOCATION, INTERMEDIATE STOPS, AND FINAL
DESTINATION OF A RECENT CONVOY WHOSE MISSION WAS TO EXCHANGE
WARHEADS AT SASCOM UNITS. JOHN DEE JAY ASKED ROBERT M. CREED,
IDENTIFIED IN PARA 4 TO BRING HIM SOME WAR AND ARMY BOOKS. ALL
HE, JOHN, WANTED WERE SOME WAR STORIES, NOTHING ABOUT NORAD OR
SANRAS (SPECIAL AMMUNITIONS RECOGNITION AND AUTHENTICATION
SYSTEM).

8. JOHN DEE JAY MENTIONED AN ASSOCIATION (NOT FURTHER IDENTIFIED)
WITH SSG (USAF) FNU ALEXANDER, SECTION NCOIC, HOPSTEN (NCA), FRG,
WHO WORKS AS A SECURITY SERGEANT AT THE USAF ESR SITE THERE.

9. THE S-2, SASCOM HEADQUARTERS, FRANKFURT GER AND THE OSI
WERE BRIEFED ON 8 FEB 72.

10. INVESTIGATIVE ACTION WILL CONTINUE AT THIS COMPANY AND
RESULTS WILL BE FORWARDED UPON RECEIPT. GP-3

BT

REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED
ON 2 Sep 94
BY CDR USAINSCOM F01/PO
AUTH Para 1-603 DOD 5200.1R
DOWNGRADED AT 12 YEAR INTERVALS;
NOT AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED
DOD DIR 5200.10
NNNN

NW 88613 DocId:34530593 Page 4
