JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

Date: 01/13/98
Page: 1

AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY: INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER: 194-10004-10135
RECORDS SERIES: DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: PAGES 14-14A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR: USA
FROM: USAPSG
TO: DCS-OPS USAINTC
TITLE: [RESTRICTED]
DATE: 05/05/67
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS: FROMER, DAVID REED
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: RECORD REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED ON 2 SEP 94.

NW 88613 DocId:34528544 Page 1

REQUEST FOR AND RESULTS OF PERSONNEL SECURITY ACTION (AR 381-130)
DATE: 5 May 1967

THRU:
TO: (Control Office)
DCS-OPS
USAINTC
ATTN: OPS III (Mr. Burwasser)
Fort Holabird, Md.

FROM: (Requesting Agency)
USAPSG
U.S. Army Personnel Security Group
Fort Holabird, Maryland 21239
ATTN: Adjudications Division

(Enter name and address of the ACTION AGENCY to which results are to be sent, if known by requester)

CONTROL OFFICE USE ONLY
REQUIREMENT REQUEST NO.
DOSSIER NO.
OPENING DATE
REMARKS

SECTION I - REQUESTER TO CONTROL OFFICE

1. SUBJECT (Last name in capitals, first and middle names)
FROMER, David Reed

2. ALIAS(ES), MAIDEN NAME
None

3. SERVICE/SOCIAL SECURITY NO.
564-58-8137

4. DATE OF BIRTH (Day, Month, Year)
21 July 1942

5. PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State and country)
Chicago, Illinois

6. GRADE AND POSITION
Registrant

7. REQUESTED ACTION
INVESTIGATION VALIDATION RECORDS CHECK OTHER (Explain in Item 15)

8. TYPE OF INVESTIGATION:
NAC NACI OTHER

9. a. FOR CLEARANCE AND/OR ACCESS TO:
TOP SECRET SECRET CONFIDENTIAL

b. FOR LIMITED ACCESS AUTHORIZATION
c. INTERIM CLEARANCE DESIRED
d. OTHER (Explain in Item 15)

10. TO DETERMINE SUITABILITY FOR:
11. JUSTIFICATION

12. REVIEW OF FILES REQUIRED BY PARAGRAPH AR 604-5, COMPLETED ON REVEALED:
NO UNFAVORABLE INFORMATION UNFAVORABLE INFORMATION DETERMINED NOT TO BE A BAR TO ACTION CONTEMPLATED
INFORMATION SUMMARIZED IN ITEM 15

13. LATEST INVESTIGATION/CLEARANCE (Type, when, by whom)
14. NO BREAK IN FEDERAL SERVICE EXCEEDING SIX MONTHS SINCE

15. REMARKS (If unfavorable information entered, transmit in sealed envelope thru intelligence channels.)
Request that Headquarters and Local FBI (S) file checks be conducted on SUBJECT's parents.

"Request this investigation be expedited as determination under AR 604-10 is being delayed at Department of the Army pending results".

TYPED NAME AND TITLE
JB FINNEGAN
COL
AIS

SIGNATURE

DATE

Dossier 564588137
re SUBJECT

SECTION II - CONTROL OFFICE TO REQUESTER

16. NEW FINGERPRINT CARD REQUIRED
ITEMS ON SPH (PSQ) REQUIRE CORRECTION AND/OR COMPLETION.
INTERIM REPORT FORWARDED.. REQUEST REPORT OF ACTION TAKEN AND RETURN OF INCLOSURES UPON COMPLETION.

INCLS
DA FORM 2784

TYPED NAME AND TITLE
Regraded UNCLASSIFIED
ON 2 Sep 94
BY CDR
SIGNATURE

DATE
when separated from classified inclosures

NW 88613 DocId:34528544 Page 2

SECTION III - REQUESTER TO CONTROL OFFICE

17. REPORT OF ACTION
INFORMATION NOTED
SUBJECT REASSIGNED TO NON-SENSITIVE DUTIES, INVESTIGATION MAY BE CANCELED.

18. SUBJECT WAS TRANSFERRED
TO HEADQUARTERS

19. REMARKS (If returning corrected forms, state here)

INFORMATION CONSIDERED NO BAR TO CLEARANCE. REQUEST COMPLETION OF INVESTIGATION.

TYPED NAME AND TITLE
SIGNATURE
DATE

SECTION IV - CONTROL OFFICE TO ACTION AGENCY

20. RESULTS OF PERSONNEL SECURITY ACTION
NO RECORD FAVORABLE MINOR UNFAVORABLE INFORMATION RECORDED IN ITEM 21
PRIOR INVESTIGATION INSUFFICIENT FOR ACTION CONTEMPLATED FORWARDED FOR SECURITY DETERMINATION BY CLEARING AUTHORITY

TYPE OF INVESTIGATION
NAC NACI OTHER

COMPLETED BY
DATE
DOSSIER NUMBER

21. REMARKS
a. THIS FORM, TOGETHER WITH ANY INCLOSURES, REPORT OF ACTION TAKEN AND USACRF COPY OF DA FORM 873 (if appropriate) WILL BE RETURNED TO THE CONTROL OFFICE WITHIN DAYS AFTER RECEIPT.
b. IN THE EVENT SUBJECT HAS BEEN TRANSFERRED FROM YOUR COMMAND, THIS FORM AND INCLOSURES WILL BE RETURNED IMMEDIATELY WITH ITEM 23 COMPLETED.
c. ATTENTION IS INVITED TO: PARAGRAPHS AR 604-5; PARAGRAPH AR 604-11; PARAGRAPH AR 640-98; AND PARAGRAPH AR 381-130, AS APPLICABLE.

TYPED NAME AND TITLE
SIGNATURE
DATE

SECTION V - ACTION AGENCY TO CONTROL OFFICE

22. REPORT OF ACTION
FAVORABLE DETERMINATION, USACRF COPY DA FORM 873 ATTACHED
UNFAVORABLE DETERMINATION, REQUEST ADDITIONAL INVESTIGATION AS INDICATED IN ITEM 24

23. SUBJECT WAS TRANSFERRED
TO HEADQUARTERS

24. REMARKS

TYPED NAME AND TITLE
SIGNATURE
DATE

NW 88613 DocId:34528544 Page 3
