AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: CSF/INSCOM
RECORD NUMBER: 194-10006-10196
RECORDS SERIES: DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: PAGES 752-753

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: USA
FROM: TADICH, DMITRI J
TO: TJAG
TITLE: [RESTRICTED]
DATE: 05/23/67
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS: SCHEER, ROBERT
RECOMMENDATION
VIETNAM DAY COMMITTEE
COMMUNIST PARTY
SOCIALIST WORKERS PARTY
PROGRESSIVE LABOR PARTY
BERKELEY CHAPTER OF THE W.E.B. DUBOIS CLUBS OF AMERICA
DISPOSITION FORM
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED ON 19 SEP 94

NW 88613 Docld:34530142 Page 1

DISPOSITION FORM
(AR 340-15)

REFERENCE OR OFFICE SYMBOL: USAPSG
SUBJECT: SCHEER, Robert - SSN: 112-28-1134 (U)
DPOB: 4 April 1936; Bronx, New York
TO: TJAG
FROM: ACSI
DATE: 23 MAY 1967
M.C. Sneeringer/trt/6139

1. (U) Forwarded under the provisions of paragraph 29a (1), AR 604-10.

2. (U) Inclosed case file has been reviewed, and it is recommended that SUBJECT be rejected for service in any capacity.

3. (U) Following credible derogatory information is furnished as a basis for this recommendation:

a. During 1965 and 1966 SUBJECT was an active member and leader of the Vietnam Day Committee (VDC). The VDC was a radical leftist group which was heavily infiltrated by confirmed Communists and Marxists. The VDC solicited and received financial support and/or assistance from the Communist Party (CP), Socialist Workers Party (SWP), Progressive Labor Party (PLP), and the Berkeley Chapter of the W.E.B. DuBois Clubs of America (DCA). The CP and the SWP have been cited by the Attorney General of the United States; the PLP is organized, controlled, and dominated by a factionalist group of dissident Communists who broke away from the CP because they did not believe it was moving fast enough in accomplishing its revolutionary goals; and the DCA is supported, controlled and dominated by the CP. (Tabs B, pp3, 4 and 5; C; D; E; F; G; H; I, ppIV, 32, 41; J and K)

b. In 1966 HE was associated with the United Committee Against the War which is dominated by the SWP and the Young Socialist Alliance, the youth group of the SWP. (Tabs Q; R and S)

c. In 1964 HE was an associate and instructor of the San Francisco New School (SFNS). The SFNS was formulated by a radical group to criticize existing structures and policies and was the forerunner in the west coast area of the Students for a Democratic Society, a militant youth group that has received support from the CP. (Tabs A; C, pp 21 and 22; L; M; N)

d. On 5 October 1966 SUBJECT refused to complete DD Form 98 (Armed Forces Security Questionnaire). (Tab O)

e. On 5 October 1966 SUBJECT refused to complete DD Form 398 (Statement of Personal History) in its entirety. (Tab P)

4. (U) FBI check for any reports subsequent to those contained in the file and for any objections to further processing of this case is being made this date. Results thereof will be forwarded for inclusion in case file.

USAPSG S 151-7

REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED
ON 19 SEP 1994
BY CDR USAINSCOM FOI/PO
AUTH PARA 1-603 DoD 5200.1-R

REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED WHEN SEPARATED FROM CLASSIFIED INCLOSURES.
DOD DIR 5200.10 DOES NOT APPLY

DA FORM 2496, 1 FEB 62 REPLACES DD FORM 96, EXISTING SUPPLIES OF WHICH WILL BE ISSUED AND USED UNTIL 1 FEB 63 UNLESS SOONER EXHAUSTED.

US GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1983 0-210-011

NW 88613 Docld:34530142 Page 2

USAPSG 23 MAY 1967

SUBJECT: SCHEER, Robert

5. (U) Request that file be returned through the Director of Security, OACSI, to the Chief, USAPSG, Fort Holabird, Maryland 21219, upon completion of your action.

FOR THE ASSISTANT CHIEF OF STAFF FOR INTELLIGENCE

1 Incl
Dossier 112 28 11 34 (SECRET
re SUBJ-VOLS 1,2,3-4 of 4 VOLS
DMITRI J. TADICH
Colonel, GS
Chief, Personnel Security Division

REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED
ON 19 SEP 1994
BY CDR USAINSCOM FOI/PO
AUTH PARA 1-603 DOD 5200.1-R

REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED WHEN SEPARATED FROM CLASSIFIED INCLOSURES.
DOD DIR 5200.10 DOES NOT APPLY

NW 88613 Docld:34530142 Page 3
