Date : 01/20/98
Page : 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10004-10141
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PAGES 378-381

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA.
FROM : HAYASHIDA, MYRON K.
TO :
TITLE : [ RESTRICTED ]
DATE : 11/26/66
PAGES : 4
SUBJECTS : FROMER, DAVID R.

LEGAL ADVICE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :

NW 88613 DocId:34528582 Page 1

STATEMENT OF PERSONAL HISTORY

INSTRUCTIONS: Read the certification at the end of this questionnaire before entering the required data. Print or type all
answers. All questions and statements must be completed. If the answer is "None," so state. Do not misstate or omit material
fact since the statements made herein are subject to verification. If more space is needed, use the Remarks section, item 20, and
attach additional sheets if necessary. The information entered hereon is for official use only and will be maintained in confidence.

1. (Print) FIRST NAME—MIDDLE NAME--MAIDEN NAME (If any)—LAST NAME

DAVID REED FROMER

2. STATUS

CIVILIAN
MILITARY ON ACTIVE DUTY

3. ALIAS(ES), NICKNAME(S), OR CHANGES IN NAME (Other than by marriage)

None

4. PERMANENT MAILING ADDRESS

13 Rhonda Way, Mill Valley, Calif.

5. DATE OF BIRTH (Day, month, year) PLACE OF BIRTH (City, County, State, and Country) PLACE CERTIFICATE RECORDED
21 July 1942 Chicago, Cook, Illinois, USA

HEIGHT WEIGHT COLOR OF EYES COLOR OF HAIR SCARS, PHYSICAL DEFECTS, DISTINGUISHING MARKS
6'7" 170 Brown Brown Scar above left eye

6. DO YOU HAVE A HISTORY OF MENTAL OR NERVOUS DISORDERS? [ ] YES [X] NO ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN ADDICTED TO THE USE OF HABIT FORMING DRUGS SUCH AS
NARCOTICS OR BARBITURATES? [ ] YES [X] NO ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN A CHRONIC USER TO EXCESS OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES? [ ] YES [X] NO IF THE
ANSWER TO ANY OF THE ABOVE IS "YES," EXPLAIN IN ITEM 20.

7. U.S. CITIZEN
[X] YES [ ] NO
ALIEN
NATIVE IF NATURALIZED, CERTIFICATE NO. IF DERIVED, PARENTS: CERTIFICATE NO(S), DATE, PLACE, AND COURT

REGISTRATION NO. NATIVE COUNTRY DATE AND PORT OF ENTRY DO YOU INTEND TO BECOME
A U. S. CITIZEN?

8. MILITARY SERVICE

ARE YOU PRESENTLY ON ACTIVE DUTY IN THE U. S. ARMED FORCES DRAWING FULL PAY? [ ] YES [X] NO IF "YES," COMPLETE THE FOLLOWING:

GRADE AND SERVICE NO. SERVICE AND COMPONENT ORGANIZATION AND STATION DATE CURRENT ACTIVE
SERVICE STARTED

ARE YOU PRESENTLY A MEMBER OF A U.S. RESERVE OR NATIONAL GUARD ORGANIZATION? [ ] YES [X] NO IF "YES," COMPLETE THE FOLLOWING:
GRADE AND SERVICE NO. SERVICE AND COMPONENT ORGANIZATION AND STATION OR UNIT AND LOCATION

HAVE YOU PREVIOUSLY SERVED TOURS OF EXTENDED ACTIVE DUTY, DRAWING FULL PAY, FROM WHICH YOU WERE DISCHARGED OR SEPARATED TO CIVILIAN STATUS? [ ] YES [X] NO
IF "YES," COMPLETE THE FOLLOWING:
SERVICE COMPONENT FROM (Date) TO (Date) TYPE DISCHARGES OR SEPARATIONS—GRADE AND SERVICE NO.

9. EDUCATION (Account for all civilian schools and military academies. Do not include service schools)

NAME AND LOCATION OF SCHOOL FROM-TO MONTH AND YEAR GRADUATE DEGREE

Nettelhorst Elem. School, Chicago, Illinois 1947 1949 [X]
La Casita Elem. School, Clovis, New Mexico 1949 1950 [X]
Argonne Elem. School, S.F., Calif. 1950 1954 [X]
Presidio Of.High, S.F., Calif. 1954 1957 [X]
Geo. Washington High School, S.F., Calif. 1957 1960 [X]

10. FAMILY (List in order given, parents, spouse, guardians, stepparents, foster parents, parents-in-law, former spouse(s) (if divorced give date
and place), children, brothers and sisters, even though deceased. Include any others you resided with or with whom a close relationship
existed or exists. If the person is not a U.S. citizen by birth, give date and port of entry, alien registration number, naturalization certificate
number and place of issuance.)

RELATION AND NAME DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH U. S. CITIZEN PRESENT ADDRESS, IF LIVING

FATHER 12 July 1913 [X] 13 Rhonda Way
IRVING FROMER Cincinnati, Ohio Mill Valley, Calif.

MOTHER (Maiden name) 31 Dec 1909 [X] 13 Rhonda Way
Katherine Rhodes Estherville, Iowa Mill Valley, Calif.

SPOUSE (Maiden name)
None

OTHER (Specify) Brother 11 May 1946 [X] 881 Clayton St.
Jon Fromer Chicago, Illinois San Francisco, Calif.

Sister 15 Aug 1939 [X] 881 Clayton St.
Ann Spake San Francisco, Calif. San Francisco, Calif.

NW 88613 DocId:34528582 Page 2

11. OTHER RELATIVES AND ALIEN FRIENDS LIVING IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES (List grandparents, first cousins, aunts, uncles,
brothers- and sisters-in-law, and other persons with whom a close relationship existed or exists)

RELATIONSHIP AND NAME AGE OCCUPATION ADDRESS CITIZENSHIP
None

12. FOREIGN TRAVEL (Other than as a direct result of United States military duties)

COUNTRY VISITED PURPOSE OF TRAVEL DATES
FROM-TO
None

13. EMPLOYMENT (Show every employment you have had and all periods of unemployment)

NAME AND ADDRESS OF EMPLOYER MONTH AND YEAR NAME OF IMMEDIATE REASON FOR LEAVING
SUPERVISOR
Paul Elder Bookstore Dec 59 Paul Elder End of holiday
Sutter & Stockton Sts., S.F., Cal. season
San Francisco Council Camp Fire Summer 60 End of summer
Girls, S.F., Calif. Camp
Fairmont Hotel 1960 Part-time Unknown
San Francisco, Calif. job
Foster's Restaurant 1961 Part-time Unknown
San Francisco, Calif. job
S. F. Boys' Chorus Summer 1961 Madi Bacon End of summer
San Francisco, Calif. camp
Self-employed musicians in 1962 & 1963 Bob George end of school
folk trio year
1718 Wells St., Chicago, Illinois
Madison Board of Education Rec. Fall 1962
Madison, Wisconsin
Clark Service Station Oct 65 Ed Cutter Conflict with
Atwood Ave., Madison, Wisconsin studies
Cooks Cupboard Jun 66 Return to
S.F.

SOCIAL SECURITY NO.
564-58-8137

DID ANY OF THE ABOVE EMPLOYMENTS REQUIRE A SECURITY CLEARANCE? [ ] YES [X] NO DO YOU HAVE
ANY FOREIGN PROPERTY OR BUSINESS CONNECTIONS, OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN EMPLOYED BY A FOREIGN
GOVERNMENT, FIRM, OR AGENCY? [ ] YES [X] NO HAVE YOU EVER BEEN REFUSED BOND? [ ] YES [X] NO
IF THE ANSWER TO ANY OF THE ABOVE IS "YES," EXPLAIN IN ITEM 20.

14. CREDIT AND CHARACTER REFERENCES (Do not include relatives, former employers, or persons living outside the
United States or its Territories.

NAME YEARS STREET AND NUMBER CITY STATE OR
(List 3 credit and 5 character) KNOWN (Business address preferred) TERRITORY
CREDIT
None
CHARACTER
Malvina Reynolds 10 2027 Parker Street Berkeley Calif.
Stephan Negoesco 10 Sonora Way San Francisco Calif.
Madi Bacon 4 1120 Keith Avenue San Francisco Calif.
Richard Correll 18 7827 Corte Madera Calif.
Archie Brown 799 Clayton Street Berkeley Calif.

NW 88613 DocId:34528582 Page 3

15. LIST ALL RESIDENCES FROM 1 JANUARY 1937

STREET AND NUMBER FROM-TO MONTH AND YEAR CITY STATE OR COUNTRY

2817 Pine Grove Street 1942 1949 Chicago Illinois
Edwards Street 1949 1950 Clovis New Mexico
1932 Cabrille Street 1950 1960 San Francisco California
881 Clayton Street 1960 1961 San Francisco California
2850 Bancroft Way 1961 1962 Berkeley California
219 N. Basset 1962 1963 Madison Wisconsin
215 Lake Lawn Avenue 1963 1964 Madison Wisconsin
1427 University Avenue 1964 1965 Madison Wisconsin
881 Clayton Street 1965 1966 San Francisco California
435 W. North Avenue 1966 1966 Chicago Illinois
13 Rhonda Way 1966 1966 Mill Valley California
140 Langdon Street 1966 Present Madison Wisconsin

16. PAST AND/OR PRESENT MEMBERSHIP IN ORGANIZATIONS

NAME AND ADDRESS TYPE MEMBERSHIP OFFICE HELD FROM-TO
(Social, fraternal, professional, etc.)

17. ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN A MEMBER OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY U. S. A., OR ANY COMMUNIST ORGANIZATIONS ANYWHERE?
ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN A MEMBER OF A FASCIST ORGANIZATION?
ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN A MEMBER OF ANY ORGANIZATION, ASSOCIATION, MOVEMENT, GROUP OR COMBINATION OF PERSONS WHICH ADVOCATES THE
OVERTHROW OF OUR CONSTITUTIONAL FORM OF GOVERNMENT, OR WHICH HAS ADOPTED THE POLICY OF ADVOCATING OR APPROVING THE COMMISSION OF ACTS OF FORCE
OR VIOLENCE TO DENY OTHER PERSONS THEIR RIGHTS UNDER THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES, OR WHICH SEEKS TO ALTER THE FORM OF GOVERNMENT OF
THE UNITED STATES BY UNCONSTITUTIONAL MEANS?

ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN AFFILIATED OR ASSOCIATED WITH ANY ORGANIZATION OF THE TYPE DESCRIBED ABOVE AS AN AGENT, OFFICIAL, OR EMPLOYEE?

ARE YOU NOW ASSOCIATING WITH, OR HAVE YOU ASSOCIATED WITH ANY INDIVIDUALS, INCLUDING RELATIVES, WHO YOU KNOW OR HAVE REASON TO BELIEVE, ARE OR
HAVE BEEN MEMBERS OF ANY OF THE ORGANIZATIONS IDENTIFIED ABOVE?

HAVE YOU EVER ENGAGED IN ANY OF THE FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES OF ANY ORGANIZATION OF THE TYPE DESCRIBED ABOVE: CONTRIBUTION(S) TO, ATTENDANCE AT, OR
PARTICIPATION IN ANY ORGANIZATIONAL, SOCIAL, OR OTHER ACTIVITIES OF SAID ORGANIZATIONS OR OF ANY PROJECTS SPONSORED BY THEM: THE SALE, GIFT, OR DIS-
TRIBUTION OF ANY WRITTEN, PRINTED, OR OTHER MATTER, PREPARED, REPRODUCED, OR PUBLISHED, BY THEM OR ANY OF THEIR AGENTS OR INSTRUMENTALITIES?

IF YES, DESCRIBE THE CIRCUMSTANCES. ATTACH ADDITIONAL SHEETS FOR A FULL DETAILED STATEMENT. IF ASSOCIATED WITH ANY OF THE ABOVE ORGANIZATIONS, SPECIFY NATURE
AND EXTENT OF ASSOCIATION WITH EACH, INCLUDING OFFICE OR POSITION HELD. ALSO INCLUDE DATES, PLACES, AND CREDENTIALS NOW OR FORMERLY HELD. IF ASSOCIATIONS HAVE
BEEN WITH INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE MEMBERS OF THE ABOVE ORGANIZATIONS, THEN LIST THE INDIVIDUALS AND THE ORGANIZATIONS WITH WHICH THEY WERE OR ARE AFFILIATED.

18. HAVE YOU EVER BEEN DETAINED, HELD, ARRESTED, INDICTED OR SUMMONED INTO COURT AS A DEFENDANT IN A CRIMINAL PROCEEDING, OR CONVICTED, FINED, OR IMPRISONED OR
PLACED ON PROBATION, OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN ORDERED TO DEPOSIT BAIL OR COLLATERAL FOR THE VIOLATION OF ANY LAW, POLICE REGULATION OR ORDINANCE (excluding
minor traffic violations for which a fine or forfeiture of $25, or less was imposed)? INCLUDE ALL COURT MARTIALS WHILE IN MILITARY SERVICE. [ ] YES [X] NO
IF "YES," LIST THE DATE, THE NATURE OF THE OFFENSE OR VIOLATION, THE NAME AND LOCATION OF THE COURT OR PLACE OF HEARING, AND THE PENALTY IMPOSED OR OTHER
DISPOSITION OF EACH CASE.

NW 88613 DocId:34528582 Page 4

19. ARE THERE ANY INCIDENTS IN YOUR LIFE NOT MENTIONED HEREIN WHICH MAY REFLECT UPON YOUR LOYALTY TO THE UNITED STATES OR UPON YOUR SUITABILITY TO PERFORM
THE DUTIES WHICH YOU MAY BE CALLED UPON TO TAKE OR WHICH MIGHT REQUIRE FURTHER EXPLANATION? [X] YES [ ] NO IF "YES," GIVE DETAILS

I am a conscientious objector. My case is in the courts at the present time.

20. REMARKS:

I have been advised by my lawyers that I cannot sign #16 or #17 without
putting myself in jeopardy. Private attorney - Peter Franck
Family attorney - Vincent Hallinan

David Reed Fromer, born 21 July 1942, in Chicago, Illinois,
a registrant under the Universal Military Training Act, was
this date given an opportunity to execute DD Form 398 and
in my presence he refused to do so, in its entirety.

MYRON K. HAYASHIDA
1/LT, AGC

ITEM #9 EDUCATION (Continued) DEGREE
1960 - 1961 University of California, Berkeley, California No
1961 - 1962 City College of San Francisco, San Francisco, Calif. Yes
1962 - 1964 University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin No
1964 - 1965 San Francisco State College, San Francisco, Calif. (Ext.) No
1965 - 1966 Roosevelt University, Chicago, Illinois No
1966 - Present University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin No

I CERTIFY THAT THE ENTRIES MADE BY ME ABOVE ARE TRUE, COMPLETE, AND CORRECT TO THE BEST OF MY KNOWLEDGE AND BELIEF AND ARE MADE IN
GOOD FAITH. I UNDERSTAND THAT A KNOWING AND WILLFUL FALSE STATEMENT ON THIS FORM CAN BE PUNISHED BY FINE OR IMPRISONMENT OR BOTH
(See U. S. Code, title 18, section 1001)

DATE SIGNATURE OF PERSON COMPLETING FORM
21 Nov 1966 David Reed Fromer

TYPED NAME AND ADDRESS OF WITNESS SIGNATURE OF WITNESS
MYRON K. HAYASHIDA
1/LT, AGC
1515 Clay St., Oakland, Calif.

THIS SECTION TO BE COMPLETED BY AUTHORITY REQUESTING INVESTIGATION

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DUTY ASSIGNMENT AND DEGREE OF CLASSIFIED MATTER (top secret, secret, etc.) TO WHICH APPLICANT WILL REQUIRE ACCESS

RECORD OF PRIOR CLEARANCES
DATE OF CLEARANCE TYPE OF CLEARANCE AGENCY THAT COMPLETED INVESTIGATION

REMARKS.

NW 88613 DocId:34528582 Page 5
