Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case #: NW 88673
Date: 03-18-2025

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
Date: 01/14/98
Page: 1
AGENCY: INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER:
RECORDS SERIES:
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 194-10004-10390
DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
PAGE 51

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR: USA
FROM: [ RESTRICTED ]
TO: [ RESTRICTED ]
TITLE:
DATE: 11/19/68
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS: MARTI, MANUEL
CHARACTER REFERENCE
REYES, JUANITA
PAPER: TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS:

NW 88673 DocId:34529206 Page 1

(AR 381-130; FM 30-17)
1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT 2. DATE SUBMITTED
MARTI, MANUEL NMN 19 November 1968
PVT E-4, US 52 737 780 3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER
DPOB: 17 May 1946, San Juan, Puerto Rico 8240-6019

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS
(LISTED CHARACTER REFERENCE) On 4 November 1968, an attempt was
made to contact Juanita Reyes, 940 East 173rd Street, Bronx, New York, who
might be identifiable with Juanita Reyes, 1435 Ogden Avenue, New York,
New York, listed character reference of Manuel MARTI, with negative results.
There was no one available at Reyes' residence. A courtesy letter was left
at the residence with the request that Reyes contact the undersigned for
an appointment.

AGENT'S NOTES: An earlier attempt to contact Reyes at the
address furnished on SUBJECT'S SPH, dated 1 August 1968, revealed that no
one by that name was known at the address.

(LISTED CHARACTER REFERENCE) On 10 November 1968, an attempt
was made to contact Juanita Reyes, 940 East 173rd Street, Bronx, New York,
who might be identifiable with Juanita Reyes, 1435 Ogden Avenue, New York,
New York, listed character reference of Manuel MARTI, and who had failed to
respond to a courtesy letter left at her residence on 4 November 1968, with
the following results:

Alberto Reyes, a relative of Juanita Reyes, was contacted and
stated that he had never heard of SUBJECT, and that Juanita Reyes had re-
turned to Puerto Rico over one year ago. He further stated that she had
never resided at 1435 Ogden Avenue, New York, New York.

5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT 6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT
ALPHONSO E. MARSHALL, 108th MI Gp (I-SIB)

DA FORM 341
1 APR 52 REPLACES WD AGO FORM 341, 1 JUN 47, WHICH MAY BE USED.

NW 88673 DocId:34529206 Page 2
