Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note), Case#: NW
88613 Date: 03-15-2025

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
Date: 01/20/98
Page: 1
AGENCY: INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER: 194-10004-10139
RECORDS SERIES: DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
PAGE 372-373

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR: USA
FROM: HAYASHIDA, MYRON K.
TO: USA INTELLIGENCE CMD
TITLE: [RESTRICTED]
DATE: 11/25/66
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS: FROMER, DAVID R.
INDUCTION
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: RECORD REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED ON 2 SEP 94.
INCLOSURES: NOT INCLUDED.

NW 88613_DocId:34528580. Page 1

REQUEST FOR AND RESULTS OF PERSONNEL SECURITY ACTION
(AR 381-130)

TO: (Control Office) THRU:
CG, USA Intelligence Cmd CG, USAREC
ATTN: ACofS, CONOPS ATTN: Security Officer
PO Box 398 Hampton, Va 23369
Fort Holabird, Md 21219

(Enter name and address of the ACTION AGENCY to which results are to be sent, if known by requester)

FROM: (Requesting Agency)
CO, AFEES
1515 Clay Street
Oakland, California

CONTROL OFFICE USE ONLY
REQUIREMENT REQUEST NO.

CHIEF, USAPSG
ATTN: Adjudication Branch
Fort Holabird, Md 21219

DOSSIER NO.
OPENING DATE
REMARKS

SECTION I - REQUESTER TO CONTROL OFFICE
1. SUBJECT (Last name in capitals, first and middle names) 2. ALIAS(ES)
FROMER, David Reed None
3. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.
564-58-8137
4. DATE OF BIRTH 5. PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State and country) 6. GRADE AND POSITION
(Day, Month, Year) Chicago, Illinois N/A
21 July 1942
7. REQUESTED ACTION 8. TYPE OF INVESTIGATION: 9. a. FOR CLEARANCE AND/OR ACCESS TO:
[X] INVESTIGATION [ ] VALIDATION [ ] RECORDS CHECK NACI [ ] NAC [ ] OTHER (Explain in Item 15) TOP SECRET [ ] SECRET [ ] CONFIDENTIAL
10. TO DETERMINE SUITABILITY FOR: 11. JUSTIFICATION
[ ] INDUCTION PAR 18, AR-604-10 b. [ ] FOR LIMITED ACCESS AUTHORIZATION
c. [ ] INTERIM CLEARANCE DESIRED
d. [X] OTHER (Explain in Item 15)
12. REVIEW OF FILES REQUIRED BY PARAGRAPH AR 604-5, COMPLETED ON REVEALED:
[ ] NO UNFAVORABLE INFORMATION [ ] UNFAVORABLE INFORMATION DETERMINED NOT TO BE A BAR TO ACTION
[ ] INFORMATION SUMMARIZED IN ITEM 15
13. LATEST INVESTIGATION/CLEARANCE (Type, when, by whom)
N/A
14. NO BREAK IN FEDERAL SERVICE
EXCEEDING SIX MONTHS SINCE N/A
15. REMARKS (If unfavorable information entered, transmit in sealed envelope thru intelligence channels,).
Request investigation of registrant in view of remarks made by registrant in remarks
section DD Form 98 and DD Form 398. SSN: 4-42-42-204

Headquarters
US Army Recruiting Command
Hampton, Virginia 23369

TYPED NAME AND TITLE SIGNATURE
MYRON K. HAYASHIDA
1/LT, AGC

SECTION II - CONTROL OFFICE TO REQUESTER
16. [ ] NEW FINGERPRINT CARD REQUIRED DATE
[ ] ITEMS ON SPH (PSQ) REQUIRE CORRECTION AND/OR COMPLETION.
[ ] INTERIM REPORT FORWARDED. REQUEST REPORT OF ACTION TAKEN AND RETURN OF INCLOSURES UPON COMPLETION.
372
DA FORM 1 APR 64 2784
TYPED NAME AND TITLE SIGNATURE

NW 88613 DocId:34528580 Page 2

SECTION III - REQUESTER TO CONTROL OFFICE
17. REPORT OF ACTION
[ ] INFORMATION NOTED [ ] SUBJECT REAGE
SENSITIVE
INVESTIGATION
MAY BE CANCELED.
18. SUBJECT WAS TRANSFERRED
TO HEADQUARTERS
19. REMARKS (If returning corrected forms, state here)

TYPED NAME AND TITLE SIGNATURE
DATE

SECTION IV - CONTROL OFFICE TO ACTION AGENCY
20. RESULTS OF PERSONNEL SECURITY ACTION
[ ] NO RECORD [ ] FAVORABLE DATE
[ ] PRIOR INVESTIGATION INSUFFICIENT FOR ACTION CONTEMPLATED [ ] MINOR UNFAVORABLE INFORMATION RECORDED IN ITEM 21 30 MAR 1967
[X] FORWARDED FOR SECURITY DETERMINATION BY CLEARING AUTHORITY
IF NEEDED, INITIATE REQUEST FOR INVESTIGATION.
TYPE OF INVESTIGATION COMPLETED BY DATE
[ ] NACI [ ] NAC [X] OTHER USAINTC 29 Mar 1967
21. REMARKS DOSSIER NUMBER
AA 81 40 20

a. THIS FORM, TOGETHER WITH ANY INCLOSURES, REPORT OF ACTION TAKEN AND USACRF COPY OF DA FORM 873
(if appropriate) WILL BE RETURNED TO THE CONTROL OFFICE WITHIN DAYS AFTER RECEIPT.
b. IN THE EVENT SUBJECT HAS BEEN TRANSFERRED FROM YOUR COMMAND, THIS FORM AND INCLOSURES WILL BE
RETURNED IMMEDIATELY WITH ITEM 23 COMPLETED.
c. ATTENTION IS INVITED TO: PARAGRAPHS AR 604-5; PARAGRAPH AR 604-11; PARAGRAPH
AR 640-98; AND PARAGRAPH AR 381-130, AS APPLICABLE.

SECTION V - ACTION AGENCY TO CONTROL OFFICE
22. REPORT OF ACTION
[ ] FAVORABLE DETERMINATION, USACRF [ ] UNFAVORABLE DETERMINATION,
COPY DA FORM 873 ATTACHED RECOMMENDED ACTION IN ITEM 24
23. SUBJECT WAS TRANSFERRED DATE
TO HEADQUARTERS
24. REMARKS
Regraded
This ective
Mathing is Exelated from Automatic
Termination"

TYPED NAME AND TITLE SIGNATURE
DAN H. DIETRICH
Lt Col
AIS
Chief of Operations IIL

NW 88613 DocId:34528580 Page 3
