```markdown
AGENCY
RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

FROM

SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:
OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS

Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
Date: 08/20/98
Page: 1

AGENCY INFORMATION

INSCOM/CSF

194-10002-10189
DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
PAGES 963-1008

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

FBI
[RESTRICTED]
[RESTRICTED]
46
DATE: 05/24/66
PAGES:
SCHEER, ROBERT
VIETNAM DAY COMMITTEE
SEDITION
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY
IVEY, RICHARD CLAYTON
ANTI-WAR LEAFLETS
BAY AREA PROGRESSIVE LABOR PARTY
YOUTH FOR JOBS
REPORT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
UNCLASSIFIED
3

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
11/02/97

COMPLETION OF REVIEW BY FBI
COORDINATION WITH FBI HAS BEEN COMPLETED AND
DETERMINED TO BE RELEASABLE, PER MEMO DTD 5 NOV 97

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

Field Office File #:

Title:

Character:

Synopsis:

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

1 - USA, San Francisco (RM)
G-2, 6th Army, San Francisco (RM)
1 - NISO, San Francisco (RM)
1 - OSI, Travis Air Force Base (RM)
FRANK S. PERRONE Office: SAN FRANCISCO
5/24/66
14-207 Bureau File #: 14-2943
VIETNAM DAY COMMITTEE
SEDITION

Source present at Berkeley Free Press during preparation of
"soldier's leaflet". FBI Laboratory has determined that eight
(8) additional copies of the "soldier's leaflet" were sent to
military servicemen serving overseas by RICHARD CLAYTON IVEY.
Witnessed handwriting specimens of IVEY obtained.

DETAILS:

The Vietnam Day Committee (VDC), 2407 Fulton Street,
Berkeley, California, distributed a leaflet captioned, "ATTENTION
ALL MILITARY PERSONNEL." The contents of this leaflet are
essentially the same as the Xerox copies of the leaflet which
follows, and the first paragraph begins, "The following is
proposed text for a 4-page 8-1/2 X 11 leaflet." A Xerox copy
of the "PROPOSAL" which refers to the leaflet also follows.

The above-mentioned leaflet will also be referred to as
the "soldier's leaflet".

In the "PROPOSAL", O.A.T. refers to the Oakland Army
Terminal, Oakland, California.

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to
your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

SF14-207
PROPOSAL:

1. The VDC publish the attached leaflet or one similar to it specifically aimed at
soldiers.

2. The VDC publish a similar leaflet aimed at prospective draftees which includes a
section on ways of getting out of the draft, and C. O. information etc.

3. One of the major themes of the 15-16 demonstration will be a position by the VDC
urging soldiers and potential inductees to individually and collectively oppose the war.

4. That the VDC, through its publicity, and through at least one public speaker make it
clear that at the O. A. T. we will go beyond merely stating that we urge soldiers and
potential inductees to oppose the war, but that we shall launch an active campaign of
attempting to communicate with soldiers and potential inductees, trying to inform
them of the criminal nature of the war and the reasons why we urge them to oppose it.

5. That the VDC publically inform intellectuals, liberals etc. that we are urging soldiers
to oppose the war, why we are doing so, and urging them also to oppose the war by
refusing to participate in government programs, rejecting government research
grants, etc.

6. It is understood that the above program does not rule out stressing other major themes
on the 15-16, or of launching other programs on that day.

SF 14-207

The following is proposed text for a 4 page 8 1/2 x 11 leaflet. The leaflet will also include
pictures, and at least 2 informational boxes. One of these will be divided into 2 columns.
The left giving definitions of war crimes and the right giving examples of war crimes.

The other box will give information on the soldiers who have already refused to fight in
Vietnam. Other material will be added if space permits. The layout will be large print -
2 columns with frequent subtitles.

You may soon be sent to Vietnam. You have heard about the war in the news; your
officers will give you pep talks about it. But you probably feel as confused and uncertain
about it as most Americans do. Many people will tell you to just follow orders and leave
the thinking to others. But you have the right to know as much about this war as anyone
else. After all, it's you---not your congressman---who might get killed.

WHY ARE WE FIGHTING IN VIETNAM?

We are supposed to be fighting to protect democracy in Vietnam, and yet our own
government admits that South Vietnam is a dictatorship. General Ky, the latest military
dictator, is as bad as they come. Insert here quote about Ky admiring Hitler etc.

General Ky doesn't mean much to us; we're not even sure how to pronounce his name.
But the South Vietnamese have lived under him and men like him for ten years. As far
as they are concerned, we are fighting on the side of Hitlerism; and they hope we lose.

WHO IS THE ENEMY?

U. S. military spokesmen have often said that their greatest problem is finding the
enemy. "The enemy" they say, "is everywhere." The old woman feeding her chickens
may have a stock of hand grenades in her hut. The little boy who trails after the American
soldiers during the day slips out to give information to the guerillas at night. The
washerwoman at the American air base brings a bomb to work one day. "It is impossible
says the military. "to tell who is the Viet Cong and who is the people."

And so, because the whole Vietnamese people seems to be the enemy, the military
is taking no chances. They use tear gas---a weapon only used against civilian populations
never against soldiers. They order American troops to fire at women and children---
because women and children, after all, are firing at American troops. American fighter
planes destroy civilian villages with napalm; American B52s are flattening whole regions.
That is why the war in Vietnam is so often called a "dirty war."

When the South Vietnamese people see you in your foreign uniform, they will think of
you as their enemy. You are the ones bombing their towns. They don't know whether
you're a draftee or a volunteer, whether you're for the war or against it; but they're not
taking any chances either.

FREE ELECTIONS

The Vietnamese would dearly like to vote the foreigners out of their country, but
they have never had the chance. According to the Geneva Agreement of 1954, there were
supposed to be elections throughout Vietnam in 1956, But the U.S. government was
afraid that our man in Vietnam, Premier Diem, would lose. In fact, President Eisenhower
himself admitted that "Ho Chi Minh.... 80%" (Eisenhower quote). So we decided not to
allow any election there until we were sure we could win. Diem set up a political police

SF 14-207

force and put all political opposition---Communist and anti-Communist---in jail. By 1959
it was clear that there weren't going to be any elections, and the guerillas known as the
Viet Cong began to fight back. By 1963 our government was fed up with Diem, but still
wasn't willing to risk elections. Our CIA helped a group of Vietnamese generals to over-
throw Diem and kill him. Since then there have been a series of "better" military
dictators. General Ky---the man who admires Hitler--- is the latest one.

FIGHTING FOR DEMOCRACY

Your job as a soldier is supposed to be "to win the people of South Vietnam." Win
them to what? Not democracy. We keep democracy for ourselves---they get military
dictators. What then? The American way of life? But why should they care any more
about that than we care about the Vietnamese way of life? We can't speak their language
or even pronounce their names. We don't know anything about their religion or even what
it is. We never even heard of Vietnam until Washington decided to run it.

You are supposed to be fighting to "save the Vietnamese people from Communism."
Certainly Communist influence is very strong in the National Liberation Front, the rebel
government. Yet most of the people support the NLF. Why? Many of the same people
who now lead the NLF led the Vietnamese independence movement against the Japanese
during World War II and then went on to fight against French colonial rule. Most Vietnamese
think of the NLF leaders as their country's outstanding patriots. In fact, many anti-
Communists have joined the guerilla forces in the belief that the most important thing is
to get rid of foreign domination and military dictators. On the other hand, very few
Vietnamese support the official government of General Ky. His army has low morale and
a high desertion rate.

THE TOUGH GUERILLAS

The newspapers and television have told us again and again what a brave, tough fighter
the Vietnamese guerilla is. Short of ammunition and without any air cover, he can beat
forces that outnumber him five or ten to one. Why do they have such high morale? They
are not draftees; no draftees ever fight like that. They are not high-paid, professional
soldiers; most of them are peasants who work their fields. They are not well-trained;
they can't even spare the ammunition for target practice.

Their secret is that they know why they are fighting. They didn't hear about Vietnam
in the newspapers; they've lived there all their lives. While we were in high school,
they were living under the Diem regime and hating it. Now American planes are bombing
their towns and strafing their fields; American troops have occupied their country; and if
they complain out loud, an American-supported dictator sentences them to jail or the
firing squad. Is it any wonder that they fight so fiercely?

CRUSHING THE RESISTANCE

The war in Vietnam is not being fought according to the rules. Civilians are gassed.
Prisoners are tortured. Our planes drop incendiary bombs on civilian villages. Our
soldiers shoot at women and children. Your officers will tell you that it is all necessary,
that we couldn't win the war any other way. And they are right. Americans are no more
cruel than any other people; American soldiers don't enjoy this kind of war. But if you
are going to wage war against an entire people, you have to become cruel. The ordinary
German soldier in occupied Europe wasn't especially cruel, either. But as the resistance
movements grew, he became cruel. He shot at women and children because they were
shooting at him; he never asked himself why they were shooting at him. When a certain
town became a center of resistance activity, he followed his orders and destroyed the

SF 14-207

whole town. He knew that SS men were torturing captured resistance fighters, but it
wasn't his business to interfere.

FOLLOWING ORDERS

As a soldier you have been trained to obey orders, but as a human being you must
take responsibility for your own acts. International and American law recognize that
an individual soldier, even if acting under orders, must bear final legal and moral re-
sponsibility for what he does. This principle became a part of law after World War II,
when the Allied nations, meeting in London, decided that German war criminals must
be punished even if they committed war crimes under orders. This principle was the
basis of the Nuremberg trials. We believe that the entire war in Vietnam is criminal
and immoral. We believe that the atrocities which are necessary to wage this war
against the people of Vietnam are inexcusable.

OPPOSE THE WAR

We hope that you too find yourself, as a human being, unable to tolerate this night-
marish war—we hope that you will oppose it. We don't know what kind of risks we are
taking in giving you this leaflet; you won't know what risk you will be taking in opposing
the war. Several GIs have already refused to fight in Vietnam and have been court-
martialed. They have shown great courage. We believe that they, together with other
courageous men who will join them, will have influence far out of proportion to their
numbers.

There may be many other things you can do; since you are in the service, you know
better than civilians what sorts of opposition are possible. But whatever you do, keep
your eyes open. Draw your own conclusions from the things you see, read and hear.

At orientations sessions, don't be afraid to ask questions, and if you're not
satisfied with the answer, keep asking. Take every chance you get to talk to your fellow
soldiers about the war. Demand to hear civilian speakers who oppose the war debate
military spokesmen.

You may feel the war is wrong, and still decide not to face a courtmartial. You may
then find yourself in Vietnam under orders. You will have to do some fighting—but don't
do any more than you have to. Good luck.

SF 14-207
FSP: jal

SF T-1 furnished a copy of the "PROPOSAL" and the
proposed text for the four page leaflet which would be
"specifically aimed at soldiers."

SF T-1 informed on May 3, 1966, that he obtained the
"PROPOSAL" and the proposed text for the leaflet from a table
during the VDC membership meeting in Room 204, Engineering Hall,
University of California, Berkeley, California, (UCB), on
October 5, 1965. SF T-1 remarked he did not know who wrote or
assisted in the preparation of the proposed text for the leaflet;
however, recalled the proposed text for the leaflet was read
aloud at the meeting by STEVE CHERKOSS. SF T-1 was unable to
recall any comments made by CHERKOSS during his reading of the
proposed text.

SF T-1 went on to say there were from 85 to 105
individuals also present at the meeting on October 5, 1965;
however, since this was the first meeting of this type that
he had attended, he only knew CHERKOSS who was introduced.

SF T-2 on October 10, 1965, furnished in-
formation which identified STEVE CHERKOSS
as a current active member of the Bay Area
Progressive Labor Party (BAPLP).

A characterization for the BAPLP is contained
in the Appendix Section.

SF T-3 reported on October 8, 1965, that on October
5, 1965, a VDC meeting was held at UCB, and among topics dis-
cussed at the meeting was the distribution of handbills for
soldiers. Decision was made at the meeting, that the hand-
bills would be given to soldiers at bus stations, at airports,
and also, if possible, at the Oakland Army Terminal.

SF T-3 related on May 6, 1966, that the above-
mentioned VDC meeting was a VDC general membership meeting;
and the meeting place was held in Room 204, Engineering Hall,
UCB. SF T-3 informed he did not recall if the proposed text
for the leaflet was read by anyone, or who had knowledge of
the contents of the proposed text. SF T-3 stated he recalled
the following individuals whom he described as members of the
VDC were present at the VDC meeting on October 5, 1965.

SF 14-207
FSP: jal

STEVE CHERKOSS
DAVID FRIEDMAN
FRED GIBSON
HOWARD HARAWITZ
MORRIS HIRSCH
LARRY LOUGHLIN
MARILYN MILLIGAN
JOANNE PEYTON
JANET PUGH
JERRY RUBIN
VALERIE SILVA
STEPHEN SMALE
WINDY SMITH
LOUISE STAPLETON
SYD STAPLETON
JACK WEINBERG
STEVE WEISSMAN

Continuing, SF T-3 remarked that what he had prev-
iously referred to as handbills were identical with the leaflet,
"ATTENTION ALL MILITARY PERSONNEL."

SF T-3 also remarked he could not recall any specific
comments made by anyone during the meeting on October 5, 1965.

Inspector CHARLES O'MEARA, Intelligence
Unit, Berkeley, Police Department, Berkeley,
informed on October 12, 1965, that according
to information furnished to him, DAVID
FRIEDMAN was a member of the Steering Com-
mittee of the VDC. A protest demonstration
was conducted at the Sea Wolf Restaurant,
Jack London Square, Oakland, on February
12, 1965. This demonstration was sponsored
by the Congress of Racial Equality. During
the demonstration, DAVID FRIEDMAN was one
of five individuals arrested by the Oakland
Police Department. He was charged with in-
terfering with a police officer. The
charge was subsequently dismissed.

SF T-3 reported on October 25, 1965, that
on October 23, 1965, one FRED GIBSON at-
tended a Youth For Jobs (YFJ) meeting at

SF 14-207
FSP: jal

59th Street and San Pablo Avenue, Oakland.

A characterization for YFJ is contained in
the Appendix Section.

SF T-3 on September 9, 1965, identified
FRED GIBSON as a member of the Community
Work Committee of the VDC and also a mem-
ber of the VDC Steering Committee.

SF T-4 reported in 1963 and 1964 that
during 1963 and 1964, HOWARD HARAWITZ
was a member of the Communist Party
Youth Off-Campus Club, Berkeley.

SF T-5 on November 15, 1965, furnished a
copy of a printed "Dear Friend" letter
issued by the VDC which called for funds
from the recipient. The letter identified
MORRIS HIRSCH as a Professor of Mathematics,
UCB, and also a member of the Finance
Committee of the VDC.

The name of MORRIS HIRSCH appeared as a
signer of a 1962 petition which urged
non-enforcement and repeal of the Internal
Security Act of 1950, which petition had
been circulated by the Committee for Con-
stitutional Liberties (CCL), San Francisco,
and had been submitted to the White House.

A characterization for the CCL is contained
in the Appendix Section.

SF T-3 on September 9, 1965, identified
LARRY LOUGHLIN as a member of the Finance
Committee and Staff Member of the VDC.

A review of the records of the San Francisco
Police Department, San Francisco, revealed
that LARRY LOUGHLIN, also known as LAWRENCE
ROBERT LOUGHLIN (true name), was arrested

SF 14-207
FSP: jal

by the San Francisco Police Department
on August 24, 1965, and charged with tres-
passing and resisting arrest. The charges
arose from a demonstration against General
MAXWELL TAYLOR at the Fairmont Hotel, San
Francisco.

After LOUGHLIN had pled nolo contendere,
he was sentenced on February 16, 1966,
to six months in the San Francisco
County Jail, Sentence was suspended
and he was placed on one year probation.

SF T-3 on September 9, 1965 identified
MARILYN MILLIGAN as a member of the Commun-
ity Work Committee and Staff Member of the
VDC.

A review of the records of the Alameda
County Sheriff's Office, Oakland, revealed
that MARILYN MILLIGAN was arrested on
December 3, 1964, under Sheriff's Office
Number 641125 in connection with a sit-in
demonstration at Sproul Hall, UCB. She
was charged with resisting arrest, fail-
ure to disperse and trespassing. On
June 28, 1965, she was found guilty
of the trespassing and resisting arrest
charges and the failure to disperse charge
was dismissed. On July 29, 1965, she
refused probation and was sentenced to
$100.00 or ten days in jail on the tres-
passing charge, and $150.00 or fifteen
days in jail on the resisting arrest charge.
She has appealed the convictions.

SF T-3 on September 9, 1965, identified
JOANNE PEYTON as a member of the Community
Work Committee of the VDC.

A review of the records of the Registrar's
Office, UCB, revealed the following in-
formation for JOANNE PEYTON, nee JOANNE
BARKER WARD.

White
Female
Born August 8, 1936, Cleveland, Ohio.

SF 14-207
FSP: jal

SF T-3 on September 9, 1965, identified
JANET PUGH as Chairman of the Publicity
Committee of the VDC.

A review of the records of the Registrar's
Office, UCB, revealed the following des-
cription for JANET MARILYN PUGH.
White.
Female
Born December 24, 1939, Red Bluff,
California
Permanent Residence: 200 Cedar
Street, Red Bluff

In the August 9, 1965, issue of the "San
Francisco Chronicle", a San Francisco,
California, daily newspaper, information
was set forth that in the summer of 1964,
JERRY RUBIN traveled to Cuba in defiance
of a United States Department of State
travel ban. The trip was sponsored by
the Student Committee for Travel to
Cuba (SCTC).

A characterization for the SCTC is contained
in the Appendix Section.

SF T-6 reported on February 19, 1965, that
JERRY RUBIN had enrolled for the fall, 1964,
semester of the San Francisco School of
Social Sciences (SFSSS).

A characterization for the SFSSS is contained
in the Appendix Section.

SF T-3 on September 9, 1965, identified
JERRY RUBIN as a Staff Member of the VDC
and also a member of the Steering Com-
mittee of the VDC.

SF T-3 reported on November 1, 1965, that
on October 30, 1965, VALERIE SILVA attended
a meeting of Youth For Jobs, 59 4th Street
and San Pablo Avenue, Oakland.

SF 14-207
FSP: jal

SF T-7 in February, 1952, identified
STEPHEN SMALE as a member of the Labor
Youth League (LYL) at the University
of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan.

The LYL has been designated by the Attorney
General of the United States pursuant to
Executive Order 10450.

The LYL became defunct in February, 1957.

SF T-8 in January, 1961, identified
STEPHEN SMALE as the Faculty Advisor of
the Students Committee Fair Play for Cuba
Committee (FPCC), at UCB.

A characterization for the FPCC is contained
in the Appendix Section.

STEPHEN SMALE has been publicly identified
as a Mathematics professor at UCB.

SF T-3 on September 9, 1965 identified
STEVE SMALE as a Staff Member of the
VDC and also a member of the Steering Com-
mittee of the VDC.

SF T-9 informed on November 15, 1963 and
March 27, 1964, that in 1963 and 1964,
WINDY SMITH was a member of the Southern
California District Communist Party.

SF T-10 reported on February 25, 1966,
that WINDY SMITH also known as JOHN
WINDRIM SMITH, JR. (TN) was a transfer
to the Marin County, California, Communist
Party Club; however, had not attended any
meetings of the club.

SF T-3 on September 9, 1965, identified
WINDY SMITH as a member of the Strategic
Research Organization Committee of the
VDC, and also a member of the Steering
Committee.

SF 14-207
FSP: jal

SF T-3 on September 9, 1965, identified
LOUISE STAPLETON as a member of the Com-
munity Work Committee of the VDC.

SF T-3 related on August 17, 1965, that
in his opinion, LOUISE STAPLETON was not
in sympathy with the VDC but was simply
looking for "some excitement and likes to
demonstrate." SF T-3 added that LOUISE
STAPLETON was an employee of the Child
Care Center in Oakland and resided at
419 63rd Street, Oakland.

SF T-11 in October, 1965, identified
SYDNEY STAPLETON as a member of the Young
Socialist Alliance, Berkeley, and the
Oakland-Berkeley Branch of the Socialist
Workers Party.

Characterizations for the Young Socialist
Alliance, Berkeley and the Oakland-Berkeley
Branch of the Socialist Workers Party are
contained in the Appendix Section.

SF T-3 on September 9, 1965, identified
SYDNEY STAPLETON as a member of the
Speaker's Bureau of the VDC and also
a member of the Steering Committee of
the VDC.

SF T-12 reported on October 11, 1964, that
on October 11, 1964, JACK WEINBERG attended
a general membership meeting of the W.E. B.
Du Bois Clubs of America, Berkeley Branch.

A characterization of the W.E.B. Du Bois
Clubs of America, Berkeley Branch is contained
in the Appendix Section.

WEINBERG was arrested at UCB in connection
with a sit-in demonstration at Sproul Hall
on December 3, 1964. He was charged with
trespassing, and resisting arrest; convicted,
and on July 30, 1965, he was sentenced to
serve 120 days in jail.

SF 14-207
FSP: jal

SF T-3 on September 9, 1965, identified
STEVE WEISSMAN as Chairman of the Strategic
Research Organization Committee of the VDC.

SF T-8 has informed that STEVE WEISSMAN,
also known as STEPHEN MARK WEISSMAN (true
name), held a Bachelor of Arts Degree from
the University of Tampa and a Master of
Arts Degree from the University of Michigan.
He enrolled at UCB as a graduate student
for the fall semester, 1964. He was a
strategist for the Free Speech Movement
(FSM) demonstrations during the latter part
of 1964 on the UCB Campus. He organized
a strike of teaching assistants at UCB in
support of the FSM.

The FSM was an organization which evolved
at UCB out of a disagreement between students
and UCB administration of UCB policy regard-
ing campus organizations.

WEISSMAN, according to his academic file
at Tampa University, December 9, 1964,
had a history of self-admitted emotional
instability for which he had been under
psycho-therapy treatment from October, 1958
to January, 1960. His father informed
in April, 1965, that his son was not a
Marxist; had no Communist leanings what-
soever and considered the United States
the best country in the world, but one
which still needed improvement.

SF 14-207
FSP:mb

SF T-13 reported on November 1, 1965, that at a general
membership meeting of the VDC on October 26, 1965, in Room 204,
Engineering Building, UCB, there was a vote which was
subsequently set aside to distribute the leaflet, "ATTENTION
ALL MILITARY PERSONNEL."

A review of all information furnished by SF T-13 failed
to reveal any information indicating who conducted the above-
described meeting, or when, where or to whom the leaflets would
be distributed.

SF T-13 is currently employed in a foreign country, and
there is no information indicating whether he will return to the
United States in the near future.

SF T-14 reported on May 6, 1966, he was unable to
recall who conducted the VDC general membership meeting in Room
204, Engineering Building, UCB, on October 26, 1965, or if mention
was made when, where, or to whom the "soldier's leaflet" would be
distributed.

SF T-3 informed on May 6, 1966, that the VDC general
membership meeting which was held in Room 204, Engineering Building,
UCB, was chaired by SYDNEY STAPLETON. SF T-3 recalled that the
persons attending the meeting voted on a decision to distribute
the "soldier's leaflet"; however, the majority vote postponed
action on the leaflets until a later meeting. SF T-3 also
recalled that JACK KURZWEIL, BOB KAUFMAN, and (CONN) "RINGO"
HALLINAN informed those present that the leaflets should be
distributed to civilians rather than to soldiers.

SF T-3 commented he had no knowledge as to when, where,
or to whom the leaflets may have been distributed.

SF T-15 reported in October 1965, that as of
September 1965, JACK WEINBERG was a member of
the Steering Committee of the VDC.

SF T-12 informed on October 9, 1964, that on
October 11, 1964, JACK WEINBERG attended a
general membership meeting of the W.E.B. Du
Bois Club of America, Berkeley Branch.

SF 14-207
FSP:mb

WEINBERG was arrested at UCB in connection
with a sit-in demonstration at Sproul Hall
on December 3, 1964. He was charged with
trespassing and resisting arrest; convicted,
and on July 30, 1965, he was sentenced to
serve 120 days in jail.

SF T-16 reported on July 19, 1965, that on
July 10, 1965, ROBERT KAUFMAN attended a
Northern California District Communist Party
meeting in San Francisco.

SF T-17 reported on April 19, 1966, that as
of November 1965, CONN "RINGO" HALLINAN was
a member of a Communist Party (CP) Club in
San Francisco.

Sergeant DAHL informed on January 10, 1966, that he had
received a report from his previously described source that at
the VDC general membership meeting in Room 204, Engineering Hall,
UCB, on October 26, 1965, WINDY SMITH gave the majority report
and recommended the VDC approve and distribute the "soldier's
leaflet" to anyone, but mainly to U.S. servicemen preparing to
go to Vietnam. In addition, SMITH commented at the meeting that
4,000 of the "soldier's leaflets" had been sent to the National
Liberation Front, 6,000 had been distributed at Fort Ord, Cali-
fornia, 2,000 at a military installation at Point Mugu, Cali-
fornia, and many at the Army Intelligence School in Monterey,
California.

SF T-14 related on May 6, 1966, that at the VDC general
membership meeting in Room 204, Engineering Hall, UCB, on
October 26, 1965, WINDY SMITH, who delivered the majority report,
recommended that the leaflets be distributed, and MIKE O'HANLON,
STEVE WEISSMAN and STEVE SMALE opposed the distribution, SF T-14
could furnish no additional information.

On January 5, 1966, Deputy Sheriff JOHN CRISAN,
Monterey County, California Sheriff's Office,
furnished some membership cards issued to
MICHAEL J. O'HANLON, which he had obtained from
a forest ranger at the Big Sur Park in December
1965. CRISAN stated he had no further

SF 14-207
FSP:mb

information concerning O'HANLON, and assumed
the cards were membership cards signed by
O'HANLON for the Industrial Workers of the
World (IWW), Students for a Democratic Society
(SDS), and the VDC.

The IWW has been designated by the Attorney
General of the United States pursuant to
Executive Order 10450.

"STUDENTS FOR A DEMOCRATIC SOCIETY is an
association of young people on the left...;
one bringing together liberals and radicals,
activists and scholars, students and
faculty. It feels the urgency to put forth
a radical, democratic program counterposed
to authoritarian movements both of Communism
and the domestic Right.

Preamble, SDS Constitution"

During the 1965 National Convention of the
SDS, the Preamble of the Constitution was
amended to eliminate "counterposed to
authoritarian movements both of Communism
and the domestic Right."

SDS Worklist No. 14,
7/28/65

When O'HANLON was stopped by a Highway Patrol
Officer on February 18, 1966, in Ocala, Florida,
O'HANLON had a membership card for the W.E.B.
Du Bois Clubs of America (DCA).

A characterization for the DCA is contained
in the Appendix.

The FBI Laboratory informed on February 17,
1966, that fingerprint examinations revealed
MICHAEL J. O'HANLON was identical with
FRANCIS GEORGE MEDAILLE, FBI Number 874 775C.

SF 14-207
FSP:mb

In the March 20, 1966, issue of the "San
Francisco Examiner", a San Francisco,
California, daily newspaper, information
was set forth that FRANCIS GEORGE MEDAILLE
was arrested in 1958 on a homicide charge
in New York for throwing a six-year old
girl from the roof of a building.

MEDAILLE was sent to a mental institution
until May 5, 1963, when he pled guilty to
a manslaughter charge, first degree. He
received a five-to-ten year suspended
sentence and was placed on five years
probation.

RICHARD D. CALLAHAN, Special Agent, Chief of Special
Operations Section, 115th INTC, Presidio, California, on
January 7, 1966, made available