```markdown
Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case #: NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

**AGENCY INFORMATION**

AGENCY: INSCOM/CSF
Date: 11/04/98
Page: 1
RECORD NUMBER: 194-10001-10168
RECORDS SERIES: DOD AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: AC678001R - PAGES 1420-1431 & 1436-1446

**DOCUMENT INFORMATION**

ORIGINATOR: USAF - OFFICE OF SPECIAL INVESTIGATIONS
FROM: ROBERT H. WAYLAND, JR. COL
TO: PAUL ARNOLD MARRIOTT
TITLE: REPORT OF INVESTIGATION - CUSTOMS VIOLATION
DATE: 10/24/69
PAGES: 23
SUBJECTS: MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL, III
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
CURRENT STATUS: 3
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/08/95
OPENING CRITERIA: COMPLETION OF REVIEW BY USAF
COMMENTS: COORDINATION WITH USAF HAS BEEN COMPLETED AND
DETERMINED RELEASABLE, PER MEMO DTD 13 MAY 96. CLOSING
STATEMENT ATTACHED WITH POSTPONEMENTS SECTION (B) 3.

NW 88613 Docld:34530443 Page 1

--- Page 2 ---

TITLE: PAUL ARNOLD MARRIOTT
Male Born: 5 Jun 15, OK
Lt Col, FR 35859, SSAN: 513-100-4236
OFFICE OF ORIGIN: OSI District 7
STATUS: PENDING
CHARACTER: CUSTOMS VIOLATION

UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
OFFICE OF SPECIAL INVESTIGATIONS
REPORT OF INVESTIGATION

REPORT MADE BY: JOSEPH A. CICCONE, SA
PERIOD: 1 - 9 October 1969
REPORT MADE AT: OSI District 7
FILE NR.: 07D18-1
DATE: OCT 24 1969
REFERENCE: ROI, OSI District 45, 17 October 1969

SYNOPSIS:

Permission to interview WERBELL granted by IRS. Review of air and surface
shipment records, Eglin AFB, FL, failed to disclose any information pertinent
to this investigation. WERBELL interviewed by IRS. During interview WERBELL
advised that firearms shipped to him by SUBJECT in April 1969 were obtained
by him (WERBELL) in Vietnam and registered during amnesty period; however,
no authorization was obtained to import these firearms. WERBELL stated that
majority of firearms currently being held at Eglin AFB were sent at WERBELL's
request by ARPA and authorized by PATTERSON, who thought firearms were for
AF museum purposes. WERBELL asserted seized firearms were sent by him to
Vietnam after receiving State Department approval and were to be returned to
SIONICS by Air Force. No authorization for this action was obtained by WERBELL.
WERBELL advised that firearms which were not sent by him to Vietnam, and which
were seized at Eglin AFB, were sent to SUBJECT for use in Air Force museums and
that, to WERBELL's knowledge, Forms 6 were not filed on any of the seized fire-
arms.

SPECIAL HANDLING REQUIRED (AFR 124-4)
WITHIN USAF

DISTRIBUTION:
Comdr, Eglin AFB, FL 2
(Action) (w/atch)
Dir OSI (w/atch) 2
ATFC(IRS) Atlanta, GA 1
(Info) (w/o atch)
OSI District 6 (w/atchs) 2
File (w/atch)

This is a privileged document under military
law. This report may not be reproduced or
given additional dissemination except as
authorized by AFR 124-4. If this report is
classified see also. AFR 205-1.

APPROVED
ROBERT H. WAYLAND, Jr, Col, USAF
Commander

NW 88613 Docld:34530443 Page 2

FILE STAMP
Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance with
JFKARCA, 1992
14 AUG 95

OSI FORM 6 PREVIOUS EDITIONS OF THIS FORM WILL BE USED UNTIL STOCK IS EXHAUSTED. GPO: 1965—758-092
MAY 62

--- Page 3 ---

07D18-1
DETAILS:

1. On 1 October 1969, Investigator WILLIAM C. GOODMAN Alcohol, Tobacco and Fire-
arms Control Division, IRS, Pensacola, FL, was interviewed by SA WILLIAM D. DIXON.
GOODMAN advised that as of that date, he had not received any additional information
concerning the matter under investigation. GOODMAN was requested to determine if
IRS would object to an interview of MITCHELL L. WERBELL III by OSI. GOODMAN advised
that he would query his higher headquarters regarding the request, and subsequently,
GOODMAN advised that he had spoken to his supervisor in the Atlanta office and that
his agency had no objection to an interview of WERBELL, Vice-President and Director
of Research and Development of Sionics.

2. On 8 Oct 69 Mr. SHELLEY F. REEVES, GS-8, SSAN 261-50-7220, Shipment Planner,
3201st Trans Sq., EAFB, FL, advised that it was possible for a shipment to arrive
at Eglin AFB without any paperwork, such as a Government Bill of Lading (GBL);
however, if such shipment arrived by military air, it should be listed on the
manifest of the aircraft involved. REEVES added that the Air Transportation Section
is required to keep copies of aircraft manifests for one year.

3. On 9 Oct 69 EUGENE D. LAWRENCE, MSgt, FR 407-38-0038, Director of Air Trans-
portation, 3201st Trans Sq, EAFB, FL, made available to the writer copies of all
military air shipment manifests for the months of May, June and July 1969. Re-
view of these manifests disclosed no information pertinent to this investigation.

4. On 9 Oct 69, NAOMI J. KING, GS-5, Freight Rate Assistant, 3201st Trans Sq,
EAFB, FL, made available to the writer her log of all shipments received from
Charleston, SC, from Jan 69 through Jul 69. Review of all GBL's concerning these
shipments failed to disclose any information pertinent to this investigation.

5. On 9 Oct 69, WILLIAM N. GRIFFIN, Assistant Regional Commissioner, Alcohol,
Tobacco and Firearms Tax Division, Internal Revenue Service, Southeast Region,
Atlanta, GA, advised by letter that WERBELL had been interviewed by agents of his
office on 16 Sep 69. GRIFFIN advised in summary as follows:

WERBELL stated the 11 Title II firearms shipped by SUBJECT to SIONICS on or
about 11 April 1969 were obtained by WERBELL in Vietnam and registered during
the amnesty period. SIONICS did not apply for or receive authorization to import
these firearms. The Title II firearms received at Eglin AFB, FL during June 1969
were sent at WERBELL's request by ARPA. Col PATTERSON authorized the shipments
after WERBELL had told PATTERSON that the firearms were for AF museum purposes.
WERBELL reviewed the list of firearms currently being held by OSI at Eglin AFB,
FL, and advised that all the sound suppressors, except the one marked HELE 4A,
and the Winchester Model 52, Cal .22 rifle, SN 694943, were the property of
SIONICS and were taken or sent to Vietnam by him after approval of the shipment
by the State Department. According to WERBELL, the Air Force agreed to send the
weapons to Vietnam and return same to SIONICS; however, he could not produce
written authorization for this action. WERBELL said the remainder of the fire-
arms were to be sent to SUBJECT for the purpose of Air Force museum displays.

NW 88613 Docld:34530443 Page 3

1421
Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992
14 AUG 95

--- Page 4 ---

07D18-1
DETAILS (Cont'd)

WERBELL related that Forms 6 were not filed on any of the firearms either by him
or to his knowledge by anyone else. WERBELL concluded that prior to the passing
of the Gun Control Act of 1968, the procedures used for exporting and importing
of the firearms was the acceptable method with the Statement.

A copy of the letter summarized, with inclosures, is attached to this report of
investigation.

ATTACHMENTS:

1. Reproduced copy of letter addressed to Col WAYLAND from WILLIAM N. GRIFFIN,
Assistant Regional Commissioner, Southeast Region, IRS, US Treasury Department,
dated 7 Oct 69, with inclosures (Letter report of Special Investigator CHARLES B.
STANFILL, Atlanta, GA, dated 22 Sep 69, with Report of Interview of MITCHELL L.
WERBELL III).
2. ROI, OSI District 7, 29 Jul 69
3. ROI, OSI District 51, 2 Sep 69
4. ROI, OSI District 7, 24 Sep 69
5. ROI, OSI District 50, 9 Oct 69
6. ROI, OSI District 5, 14 Oct 69
7. ROI, OSI District 45, 17 Oct 69

FOR COMMANDER, EGLIN AFB, FL
FOR DIR OSI
Copy of Attachment 1
FOR OSI District 6
Copy of Attachments 1 through 7.
FOR FILE
Copy of Attachment 1

PENDING

NW 88613 Docld:34530443 Page 4

1422
Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With:
JFKARCA, 1992
14 AUG 95

--- Page 5 ---

Address any reply to: P.O. Box 926, Atlanta, Ga. 30301

US Treasury Department
Regional Commissioner
Internal Revenue Service
Southeast Region

Date: OCT 7 1969
In reply refer to:
ATEA: AWS:rs

Colonel Robert H. Wayland, Jr., USAF
Department of the Air Force
OSI District 7 (HQ USAF)
Patrick Air Force Base, Florida 32925

Dear Colonel Wayland:

This refers to your letter of September 26, 1969 transmitting OSI Report
of Investigation by Special Agent Grover C. Ayers, Jr. concerning Lt.
Col Paul Arnold Marriott.

We are attaching for your information a report submitted by Special
Investigator Charles E. Stanfill concerning this investigation. Further
reports will be forwarded when received.

Your cooperation is appreciated.

Sincerely yours,

William N. Griffin
Assistant Regional Commissioner
(Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms)

Enclosure

NW 88613 Docld:34530443 Page 5

Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992
14 AUG 95

--- Page 6 ---

September 22, 1969

Chief Special Investigator
Atlanta, Georgia

Special Investigator Charles E. Stanfill
Atlanta, Georgia

Ga. L. I. 69-112 Fla. S. I. 1176(P)

This report relates to an investigation conducted at the request of
Chief Special Investigator, Jacksonville, Florida. The Office of
Special Investigations, Eglin Air Force Base, Florida, in conjunction
with Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms Division, Pensacola, Florida, is
currently conducting an investigation, regarding the alleged illegal
importation of certain Title II firearms by Lt. Col. Paul A. Marriott.

On September 16, 1969, Special Investigator in Charge Arbie R. Odom, Jr.
and I interviewed Mitchell L. WerBell III, at his residence in Powder
Springs, Georgia. In answer to questions asked by Florida, we obtained
the following information: (1) The shipment of firearms shipped by
Lt. Col. Marriott on or about April 11, 1969, to Sionics, Atlanta, Georgia,
contained 11 Title II firearms. These weapons were obtained by Mr.
WerBell in Vietnam and registered during the amnesty period. Sionics
did not apply for or receive authorization to import these firearms.

(2) The additional boxes of Title II firearms received at Eglin Air
Force Base during June 1969, were sent at the request of Mr. WerBell
by ARPA, and Col. Patterson authorized the shipments after Mr. WerBell
told him they were for Air Force museum purposes. Mr. WerBell was
shown a list of firearms contained in the two boxes currently being
held by the OSI at Eglin Air Force Base and asked to identify any
belonging to Sionics. He stated all the sound suppressors except the
one marked HELE 4A, and the Winchester Model 52, caliber .22 rifle,
serial number 694943, were property of Sionics and were taken or sent
to Vietnam by him. He stated these were taken over on approval of the
State Department, and that the Air Force had agreed to send them to
Vietnam and return them to Sionics; however, he has no written author-
ization. He stated the remainder of the firearms were given to him by
authorized persons, and were to be given to the Air Force to put in
museums.

Before Lt. Col. Marriott left Vietnam, Mr. WerBell told him he would
attempt to obtain captured enemy weapons which he would send to Lt. Col.
Marriott for the purpose of museum displays.

NW 88613 Docld:34530443 Page 6

1424
Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992
14 AUG 95

--- Page 7 ---

Lt. Col. Marriott told Mr. WerBell he thought the museum would be grateful
for them. Mr. WerBell stated he did not file any Forms 6 on any of the
firearms and had no knowledge of anyone else filing them.

Sionics is in the business of developing and manufacturing silencers for
sale to United States Military Units and United States Allies. Although
there are apparent violations of Title II of The Gun Control Act of 1968,
it appears from talking to Mr. WerBell that on the part of Sionics, they
were unintentional. Mr. WerBell stated that prior to the passing of the
Gun Control Act of 1968, the procedure used in exporting and importing
the firearms was the acceptable method with the State Department.

Charles E. Stanfill

NW 88613 Docld:34530443 Page 7

1425
Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992
14 AUG 95

--- Page 8 ---

Ga. L. I. 69-112 - Fla. SI 1176(P)
REPORT OF INTERVIEW

With Mitchell L. WerBell III, on September
16, 1969, at 2:30 p. m., at his residence
at RFD#1, Powder Springs, Georgia, by
Special Investigators Charles E. Stanfill
and Arbie R. Odom, Jr.

This interview was conducted in the presence of Sionics President Fred
N. Brown and Secretary-Treasurer Jo Florence. It was conducted in the
basement of Mr. WerBell's residence, which is used as a laboratory for
research and development for Sionics. Mr. WerBell is Vice-President
and Director of Research and Development of Sionics. Sionics currently
hold Federal Firearms License Number 58-3742, which expires March 31,
1970, as a manufacturer of firearms other than destructive devices, and
License Number 58-6156 which expires May 18, 1970, as an importer of
firearms other than destructive devices. Sionics is also holder of
Special Occupational Tax Stamp Return Number 1-58611 169 85398, as a
Class 1 Manufacturer (Firearms), and Return Number 1-58611 169 85399,
as a Class 1 Importer (Firearms), both issued for the period beginning
July 1, 1969. Sionics was also holder of a Class 1 Manufacturer Tax
Stamp for the previous year, however, they did not hold an Importers
Tax Stamp. According to officials of Sionics, they were a registered
importer under the Munitions and Control Act, registered with the
State Department. Mr Werbell stated as follows:

26 USC 6103
(b) (3)

Mr. WerBell said he went to Vietnam in September of 1968 for the purpose
of demonstrating "Sound Suppressors" manufactured by Sionics. He stated
this trip was authorized by Mr. Stanford of the State Department,
Munitions Control, Washington, D. C., who also authorized him to take
and send weapons and sound suppressors for demonstrations, however, he
has nothing in writing from them. He stated he took some of these weapons
with him and sent the rest through the Air Force to Vietnam in care of
Col. Fagan. Mr. Werbell stated that in the course of his business and
travels, he was able to acquire 12 captured enemy weapons from the date
of his arrival through about November of 1968. He said these weapons
were given to him by General Dong of the South Vietnamese Army and by
other authorized sources. He stated he sent descriptions and serial numbers
of the firearms to Sionics in Atlanta, Georgia, with instructions to
register them, and then asked Lt. Col. Marriott to ship them to the
United States for him. He said he didn't think there was anything wrong
with this procedure because of the military involvement, and that he
didn't make application for importation of the firearms for the same
reason.

NW 88613 Docld:34530443 Page 8

1426
Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance with
JFKARCA, 1992
14 AUG 95

--- Page 9 ---

Mr. Werbell said he told Lt. Col. Marriott he could pick out any of the
weapons he wanted for the museum, and that he could take any that he
had picked from the shipment when it arrived at Eglin Air Force Base.

Mr. Werbell stated he wanted the firearms for research purposes, except
for the Chinese Rocket Launcher, which he wanted for company display
purposes. He stated some of the fighting units of Thailand are being
furnished with captured enemy weapons, and that officials of Thailand
had expressed an interest in Sound Suppressors for same. Mr. WerBell
showed us an AK-47 which had a Sionics Sound Suppressor attached. Mr.
Werbell stated before Lt. Col. Marriott returned to the United States,
he advised him that he would attempt to obtain other captured weapons
which he would give to Lt. Col. Marriott for the purpose of displaying
in a museum, and that Lt. Col. Marriott told him he thought the museum
would be grateful for them. He said he was hopeful at the time that
arrangements could be made to transfer any of the weapons not used by
the museum to Sionics, but he could not recall if this had been discussed
with Lt. Col. Marriott.

Mr. Werbell stated he collected numerous captured enemy weapons during
the next few months, and during that time he sent them in two cases to
Eglin Air Force Base in care of Lt. Col. Marriott. He stated he sent
these shipments through ARPA, and that Col. Patterson authorized the
shipments after Werbell told him they were for Air Force museum purposes.
Mr. Werbell again stated he thought there was nothing wrong with this
procedure at the time because of the military involvement, and for that
reason did not make application for importation of the firearms. Mr.
Werbell was shown a list of firearms currently under seizure by the OSI,
and asked to identify any belonging to Sionics. He stated weapons listed
were the ones sent by him to Lt. Col. Marriott and that all the listed
noise suppressors belonged to Sionics with the exception of the one
marked HELE 4A, which is one he picked up that has been shot out, manu-
factured by a competitor. He also stated the .22 caliber Winchester M-52,
serial number 694943, with Scope, serial number 31411, belonged to Sionics.

He stated the noise suppressors were manufactured by Sionics and either
taken or sent to Vietnam by him. He stated he could not explain why one
had no serial number without examining it, however, some of the earlier
models had the serial number on a front port which may have been removed.
He stated the Winchester rifle was also either taken or sent to Vietnam
by him. Mr. Werbell stated as far as he was concerned, all the other fire-
arms were the property of the United States Air Force, although he had
hoped any that weren't used by the Air Force would be transferred to
Sionics. Mr. Werbell further stated he left many firearms and suppressors
in Thailand, which are in the custody of Major Stevens, 46th Group, Special
Forces.

NW 88613 Docld:34530443 Page 9

1427
Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance with
JFKARCA, 1992
14 AUG 95

--- Page 10 ---

He stated he was waiting instructions from Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms
Division before attempting to have them imported. He states most of the
firearms were taken to Vietnam by him, however, some are weapons that he
acquired there. (See attached list).

Mr. WerBell stated on his return to the United States he made an inventory
of the firearms received from Eglin Air Force Base and found that he had
made several errors when copying the serial numbers from the firearms,
and thus some of the firearms had been registered on Form 4467's with
wrong serial numbers. (See attached list). Mr. WerBell stated the errors
were made by him, and they were made because of the condition of the
numbers and the difficulty in reading them. Mr. WerBell said he had not
notified the National Office of the errors, however, he would notify
them now and ask instructions.

NW 88613 Docld:34530443 Page 10

Charles E. Stanfill

1428
Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992
14 AUG 95

--- Page 11 ---

PAUL ARNOLD MARRIOTT
Male Born: 5 Jun 15, OK
Lt Col, 513-10-4236FR
Eglin AFB, FL

REPORT MADE BY
RICHARD H. GRAHAM
PERIOD
16-21 October 1969
OFFICE OF ORIGIN
REPORT MADE AT
FILE NO.
OSI District 7
OSI District 19
07D18-1
STATUS
CHARACTER
ORIGINAL
CUSTOMS VIOLATIONS
REFERENCE
OSI District 50, 9 October 69

SYNOPSIS

BANGERT, Office of Secretary of Defense/Advance
Research Projects Agency
(OSD/ARPA) advised he was introduced to WERBELL during Jan 69 by COL. PATTERSON,
Dep. Dir., RDC-T, who informed him WERBELL represented SIONICS Corp and the purpose
of his visit was to show special weapons. WERBELL produced travel orders
approved by American Embassy in Saigon, and authorized by Counselor for Admin-
istration, U.S. Embassy, Bangkok. Orders specified travel by U.S. Military
Aircraft between Bangkok and Saigon with small arms and automatic weapons to
accompany him. During Jan 69, YOUNG, Battelle Memorial Institute Laboratory
Support Mgr, advised a box containing weapons was received via Military Aircraft,
shipped by U.S. Embassy, Saigon, to Bangkok, marked for attention of WERBELL,
SIONICS. BANGERT advised PATTERSON suggested in memorandum that weapons in
question should be shipped by Military Air to Eglin AFB, FL. marked for attention
SUBJECT. Weapons were subsequently shipped by YOUNG per instruction of
PATTERSON. A second box of weapons, referenced in a memorandum signed by SMSGT
THOMPSON, Chief, Resources Mgt Div, reflected verbal instructions from PATTERSON
to ship box to SUBJECT in same manner as first shipment. THORNE, Counselor for
Administration, U.S. Embassy, Bangkok, advised ACKERMAN, former Counselor,
apparently furnished U.S. Embassy Funding Citation for endorsement of WERBELL's
travel orders. ACKERMAN presently attending Stanford University. NONG, Budget
and Fiscal Officer, U.S. Embassy, Bangkok, furnished copies of travel orders issued
to WERBELL, and opined that DOBBS (NFI) accompanied WERBELL during travel between
Saigon.

SPECIAL HANDLING REQUIRED WITHIN USAF (AFR 124-4)

DISTRIBUTION
OSI District 7
(Comdr, Eglin AFB-Action-2)
(w/obch)
OSI District 19
(w/atch)
Dep Dir OSI (PACAF) (w/atch)2
(w/atch)
(w/atch)

This item is a privileged document under military
law. This report may not be reproduced or given
additional dissemination except as authorized by
AFR 124-4. If this report is classified see also
AFR 205-1.

GEORGE W. BLANK
Colonel, USAF
Commander

NW 88613 Docld:34530443 Page 11

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

PREVIOUS EDITIONS OF THIS FORM WILL BE USED UNTIL STOCK IS EXHAUSTED.

--- Page 12 ---

07D18-1
DETAILS:

1. On 16 Oct 69, Mr. WILLIAM A. BANGERT, Assistant Director for Support,
Office of the Secretary of Defense/Advance Research Projects
Agency (OSD/ARPA) was interviewed by SA GERALD A. TRIMBLE and the writer
at Bangkok, Thailand. BANGERT elected to execute a signed, sworn statement,
the body of which is quoted verbatim as follows:

"This statement is made in response to inquiry by Special Agent Mr. Richard M.
GRAHAM, Office of the Special Investigations, The Inspector General, USAF,
concerning the person of one Mr. Mitchell L. WerBell, and specifically, the
shipment of two (2) boxes containing assorted firearms from Bangkok, Thailand
to Eglin Air Force Base, Florida. Only information based on first-hand
knowledge and available records is contained in this statement.

"Statement: 1. Mr. Mitchell WerBell

"During the month of January 1969 (exact date unknown) I was introduced to
Mr. Mitchell L. WerBell by Col. John V. Patterson, the former Deputy Director,
RDC-T in the latter's office. Col. Patterson stated that Mr. Werbell was
representing the SIONICS Corporation and the purpose of his visit was to show
to the Thai and U.S. staff of the Military Research and Development Center
(MRDC) an assortment of special weapons. I attended one of several so-called
indoor demonstrations given by Mr. WerBell when I noticed approximately 3
assorted, suit-case type containers in which these weapons were transported.
When I casually questioned Mr. Werbell how he got these weapons into Thailand
he answered that they were flown in from Vietnam by a Thai Royal Air Force
transport plane at the request of Air Chief Marshal Dawes, Supreme Command
Armed Forces. Concurrently Mr. Werbell produced a set of official U.S.
Government Travel Orders approved by the American Embassy in Saigon and
authorized by the Counselor for Administration, U.S. Embassy, Bangkok.
I recall, these orders specified travel by U.S. Military Aircraft authorized
between Bangkok and Saigon and small arms and automatic weapons to accompany
passenger.

2. Shipment of Box No. 1

"Also during the month of January 1969 I received information from the
Battelle Memorial Institute Laboratory Support Manager (BMI/LSM), Mr. Ross B.
Young, that a box containing special weapons had been received in the MRDC.
The box in question had been shipped via Military Aircraft by the
U.S. Embassy in Saigon to RDC-T Bangkok, Attn: Mr. WerBell, SIONICS. The
Transportation and Movement Document DD Form 1384 listed the contents of the
box as "official equipment".

"On 20 January 1969, I notified Mr. Ross B. Young (BMI/LSM) in
writing that RDC-T had no contractual connections with the SIONICS Corporation,
did not desire to store the equipment, shipped by the U.S. Embassy in Saigon,
and therefore, to return the shipment to the vendor via the Transportation
Officer, Dobbins Air Force Base, Marietta, Georgia.

NW 88613 Docld:34530443 Page 12

1430
Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance with
JFKARCA, 1992
14 AUG 95

--- Page 13 ---

07D18-1

"On 31 January 1969, Mr. Ross B. Young, BMI/LSM acknowledged my 28
January 1969 memo cited above in writing and notified me that the requested
shipment to the vendor via the Transportation Officer, Dobbins Air Force
Base could not be accomplished because of the lack of official documentation
required to effect shipment. I instructed Mr. Young verbally not to take any
further action until appropriate disposition of the contents of the box in
question had been resolved.

"On 3 February 1969, Col. John V. Patterson, Deputy Director, RDC-T
suggested in a memorandum to Mr. Young and me that the box in question should
be shipped via Military Air Transport (MAT) to Commander, Air Force Armament
Laboratory, (DOL-AFSC) Eglin Air Force Base, Florida, Attention: Lt. Col. Paul
A. Marriott, FR35859. In the same memorandum Col. John V. Patterson stated
that he would attest to the nature and official aspects of this equipment.
Several days later I learned from Mr. Ross Young that he had effected the
shipment of Box 1 to Eglin Air Force Base on the basis of the instructions
received from Col. John V. Patterson. (See Memorandum for the Record, Subject:
Shipment of Weapons to A.F. Armament Laboratory, Eglin AFB, Florida, of June
13, 1969, signed: Ross B. Young.)

"3. Shipment of Box No. 2

"A second box, allegedly containing assortment of firearms was delivered
to the MRDC warehouse on or about 10 May 1969, according to the Memorandum for
the Record of June 13, 1969, signed Ross B. Young. During this time I was on
TDY in the U.S. and can only reference available documentation concerning the
shipment of this box to Eglin AFB. According to the memorandum cited above,
the Laboratory Support Manager, Mr. Ross B. Young was advised by the Deputy
Director, RDC-T to ship this box in the same manner similar to Box 1. With
the permission of William R. Thompson, Senior Master Sergeant, USAF, I attach
a memorandum for AD/PM, Subject: Shipment of Box Containing Armaments to
Armaments Laboratory Eglin AFB., dtd 16 June 1969, Signed: William R. Thompson,
SMS, USAF which was received by me upon return from the U.S."

Any errors in the above statement were typed from the original, which is being
retained by OSI District 7, available to proper authority upon request. In
addition to the above, BANGERT furnished a reproduced copy of the above described
memorandum signed by SMSGT WILLIAM R. THOMPSON, which is quoted verbatim as
follows:

AD/PM WRT:ml
MEMORANDUM FOR: The Assistant Director for
SUBJECT: Program Management, RDC-T
Shipment of Box Containing
Armaments to Armaments
Laboratory, Eglin Air Force Base

16 June 1969

NW 88613 Docld:34530443 Page 13

1431
Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance with
JFKARCA, 1992
14 AUG 95

--- Page 14 ---

TITLE: PAUL ARNOLD MARRIOTT
Male Born: 5 Jun 15, OK
Lt Col. 513-10-4236FR
Eglin AFB, FL
STATUS:
CHARACTER:
CUSTOMS VIOLATIONS

UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
OFFICE OF SPECIAL INVESTIGATIONS
REPORT OF INVESTIGATION

REPORT MADE BY SA
LAWRENCE K. HARPER
PERIOD
12 Nov 1969
OFFICE OF ORIGIN REPORT MADE AT
FILE NO.
OSI DIST 7
OSI DIST 19
07D18-1
DATE
18 NOV 1969
REFERENCE
ROI, OSI District 51, 29 Oct 1969

DETAILS:

On 12 November 1969, KARL D. ACKERMAN (former Counselor for Administration,
United States Embassy, Bangkok, Thailand), 99 Victoria Drive, Atherton, California,
was interviewed by SA ROBERT J. NOVACK and the writer, and related substantially as
follows:

ACKERMAN had several conversations with Colonel WALTER ADAMS concerning the
practical problems of getting weapons, belonging to a MITCHELL L. WERBELL, into
Thailand from the Republic of Vietnam in order that WERBELL could put on a fire power
demonstration for the King of Thailand's birthday. At all times during these conversa-
tions, ACKERMAN assumed the weapons were WERBELL's wares, and that he had
brought them from the United States with him. With this in mind; ACKERMAN stated
that he instructed Mr. GERALD T. CARTA to annotate WERBELL's travel orders with a
Bangkok United States Embassy Funding Citation number. ACKERMAN said the citation
numbers were in a block of numbers belonging to the Embassy, and because he did not
feel he had the authority to issue WERBELL any other type of number, he issued him an
Embassy number. When ACKERMAN was asked if he knew PAUL ARNOLD MARRIOTT, he
said the name was vaguely familiar but could not recall anything further. When
ACKERMAN was asked if he knew EARLENE DOBBS, he stated that he did not, to the best
of his knowledge. ACKERMAN stated that his knowledge of WERBELL came solely from
ADAMS and other stories he heard around the Embassy of the fire power demonstration
to be given for the King. ACKERMAN stated he had no personal knowledge of WERBELL.

REFERRED UPON COMPLETION TO OFFICE OF ORIGIN

SPECIAL HANDLING REQUIRED WITHIN