Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case #: NW 88613
Date: 03-18-2025

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

Date : 07/25/96
Page : 1

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10013-10141
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ZF000003W PAGES 1183-1184

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE : SWORN STATEMENT
DATE : 10/03/82
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS : SLOVODA, VLADIMIR
WHITE, JOSEPH TIMOTHY
[ RESTRICTED ]
AFFIDAVIT
DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/20/95

OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :

NW 88613 DocId:34531352 Page 1

SWORN STATEMENT
For use of this form, see AR 190-45: the proponent agency is Office of The Deputy Chief of Staff for Personnel.

LAST NAME, FIRST NAME, MIDDLE NAME: GLAISTER, HENRY DANIEL
GRADE/STATUS: CPT
SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER: 547-76-1040
ORGANIZATION OR ADDRESS: 812 MAPLEWOOD DR, COLUMBIA MO 65201

I, HENRY D. GLAISTER, 547-76-1040, CPT, FA, RESIDING AT 812
MAPLEWOOD DR, COLUMBIA, MISSOURI AUTHORIZE RELEASE OF AGENT
REPORT, DA FORM 341, DATED 22 SEPTEMBER 1982, SUBMITTED BY
RAUL J. LOZANO, 902d MI GROUP CONCERNING JOSEPH TIMOTHY
WHITE, TO MR. NORVAL (NMN) WHITE JR. (FATHER OF JOSEPH TIMOTHY
WHITE). END OF STATEMENT.

INITIALS OF PERSON MAKING STATEMENT
PAGE 1 OF 2 PAGES

ADDITIONAL PAGES MUST CONTAIN THE HEADING "STATEMENT OF ______ TAKEN AT ______ DATED ______ CONTINUED."
THE BOTTOM OF EACH ADDITIONAL PAGE MUST BEAR THE INITIALS OF THE PERSON MAKING THE STATEMENT AND
BE INITIALED AS "PAGE___OF___ PAGES." WHEN ADDITIONAL PAGES ARE UTILIZED, THE BACK OF PAGE 1 WILL
BE LINED OUT, AND THE STATEMENT WILL BE CONCLUDED ON THE REVERSE SIDE OF ANOTHER COPY OF THIS FORM.

DA FORM 2823, 11 JUL 72
SUPERSEDES DA FORM 2823, 1 JAN 68, WHICH WILL BE USED.

NW 88613 DocId:34531352 Page 2

STATEMENT (Continued)

I, HENRY DANIEL GLAISTER HAVE READ OR HAVE HAS READ-TO-ME-THIS STATE-
MENT WHICH BEGINS ON PAGE 1 AND ENDS ON PAGE 2. I FULLY UNDERSTAND THE CONTENTS OF THE ENTIRE STATEMENT
MADE BY ME. THE STATEMENT IS TRUE. I HAVE INITIALED ALL CORRECTIONS AND HAVE INITIALED THE BOTTOM OF EACH PAGE
CONTAINING THE STATEMENT. I HAVE MADE THIS STATEMENT FREELY WITHOUT HOPE OF BENEFIT OR REWARD, WITHOUT THREAT
OF PUNISHMENT, AND WITHOUT COERCION, UNLAWFUL INFLUENCE, OR UNLAWFUL INDUCEMENT.

WITNESSES:

(Signature of Person Making Statement)

Subscribed and sworn to before me, a person authorized by law
to administer oaths, this 3 day of OCTOBER 1982
at COLUMBIA MISSOURI

(Signature of Person Administering Oath)

RAUL J. LOZANO, 902d MI Group
(Typed Name of Person Administering Oath)

Article 136(b), UCMJ
(Authority To Administer Oathe)

PAGE 2 OF 2 PAGES

U.S. G.P.O. 1980-665141/1344

NW 88613 DocId:34531352 Page 3
