Date: 09/30/98
Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER: 194-10001-10496
RECORDS SERIES: FOREIGN PERSONNEL AND ORGANIZATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: AB632604W
PAGES: 76-79

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR:
FROM: EDIFANIO ROMERO-DELGADO
TO:
TITLE: DD FORM 398 - STATEMENT OF PERSONAL HISTORY
DATE: 01/18/63
PAGES: 4
SUBJECTS: ROMERODELGADO, EPIFANIO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS:

NW 88613 DocId:34528389 Page 1

--- Page 2 ---

CR #53348

INSTRUCTIONS: Read the certification at the end of this questionnaire before entering the required data. Print or type all answers. All questions and statements must be completed. If the answer is "None," so state. Do not misstate or omit material fact since the statements made herein are subject to verification. If more space is needed, use the Remarks section, item 20, and attach additional sheets if necessary. The information entered hereon is for official use only and will be maintained in confidence.

1. FIRST NAME-MIDDLE NAME-MAIDEN NAME (If any)-LAST NAME
Edifanio ROMERO-Delgado
2. STATUS
[ ] MILITARY ON ACTIVE DUTY
[X] CIVILIAN

3. ALIAS(ES). NICKNAME(S). OR CHANGES IN NAME (Other than by marriage)
Piche
4. PERMANENT MAILING ADDRESS
1140 SW 9th St. Miami, Fla.

5. DATE OF BIRTH (Day, month, year) PLACE OF BIRTH (City, County, State, and Country) PLACE CERTIFICATE RECORDED
21 Jan 1936 Candelario, Pinardel Rio, Cuba Candelario, Pinar del Rio, Cuba

RACE HEIGHT WEIGHT COLOR OF EYES COLOR OF HAIR SCARS, PHYSICAL DEFECTS, DISTINGUISHING MARKS
Cau 6'6" 165 Brown Brown NONE

6. DO YOU HAVE A HISTORY OF MENTAL OR NERVOUS DISORDERS? [ ] YES [X] NO ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN ADDICTED TO THE USE OF HABIT FORMING DRUGS SUCH AS NARCOTICS OR BARBITURATES? [ ] YES [X] NO ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN A CHRONIC USER TO EXCESS OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES? [ ] YES [ ] NO IF THE ANSWER TO ANY OF THE ABOVE IS "YES," EXPLAIN IN ITEM 20.

7. U. S.
[X] YES NATIVE
[ ] NO

IF NATURALIZED, CERTIFICATE NO. IF DERIVED, PARENTS' CERTIFICATE NO(S). DATE. PLACE, AND COURT
CITIZEN

8. ALIEN
[X] REGISTRATION NO. NATIVE COUNTRY DATE AND PORT OF ENTRY DO YOU INTEND TO BECOME
A13 108 636 Cuba 21 Sept 1962 Texas A U. S. CITIZEN?
[ ] YES [ ] NO

MILITARY SERVICE

ARE YOU PRESENTLY ON ACTIVE DUTY IN THE U. S. ARMED FORCES DRAWING FULL PAY? [ ] YES [X] NO IF "YES," COMPLETE THE FOLLOWING:

GRADE AND SERVICE NO. SERVICE AND COMPONENT ORGANIZATION AND STATION DATE CURRENT ACTIVE
SERVICE STARTED

ARE YOU PRESENTLY A MEMBER OF A U. S. RESERVE OR NATIONAL GUARD ORGANIZATION? [ ] YES [X] NO IF "YES," COMPLETE THE FOLLOWING:
GRADE AND SERVICE NO. SERVICE AND COMPONENT ORGANIZATION AND STATION OR UNIT AND LOCATION

9. HAVE YOU PREVIOUSLY SERVED TOURS OF EXTENDED ACTIVE DUTY, DRAWING FULL PAY, FROM WHICH YOU WERE DISCHARGED OR SEPARATED TO CIVILIAN STATUS? [ ] YES [X] NO
IF "YES," COMPLETE THE FOLLOWING:

COUNTRY SERVICE COMPONENT FROM (Date) TO (Date) TYPE DISCHARGES OR SEPARATIONS—GRADE AND SERVICE NO.

EDUCATION (Account for all civilian schools and military academies. Do not include service schools)

MONTH AND YEAR GRADUATE
NAME AND LOCATION OF SCHOOL DEGREE
FROM TO YES NO

Sep 46 Jun 49 Escuela Publica San Cristobal

10. FAMILY (List in order given, parents, spouse, guardians, stepparents, foster parents, parents-in-law, former spouse(s) (if divorced give date and place), children, brothers and sisters, even though deceased. Include any others you resided with or with whom a close relationship existed or exists. If the person is not a U. S. citizen by birth, give date and port of entry, alien registration number, naturalization certificate number and place of issuance.)

RELATION AND NAME DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH PRESENT ADDRESS, IF LIVING U. S. CITIZEN
YES NO
FATHER date unknown DECEASED
Felipe Romero Conzolaciondel Sur, Cuba

MOTHER (Maiden name) date unknown Finca Sabana La Mar
Sagunda Delgado Conzolaciondel Sur, Cuba San Cristobal Pinardel Rio, Cuba [X]

SPOUSE (Maiden name) 1 Feb 1936
Ilda Martinez Candelaria, Pinardel Rio, Cuba " " " " [X]
OTHER (Specify)
9 May 1962 Finca Sabana La Mar San
Arturo Romero San Cristobal, Pinar del Rio, Cuba Cristobal Pinardel Rio Cuba " [X]
Balerio Romero " " " " " " [X]
Jose Manuel Romero " " " " " " [X]
Aniceto Romero " " " " " " [X]
Santiago Romero " " " " " " [X]

NW 88613 DocId:34528389 Page 2 Exception to Standard Form 86
PREVIOUS EDITIONS ARE OBSOLETE. Approved by Bureau of the Budget June 1960

--- Page 3 ---

11. OTHER RELATIVES AND ALIEN FRIENDS LIVING IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES (List grandparents, first cousins, aunts, uncles, brothers- and sisters-in-law, and other persons with whom a close relationship existed or exists)

RELATIONSHIP AND NAME AGE OCCUPATION ADDRESS CITIZENSHIP
Juan Delgado U 36 farmer ConsolasiondelSur, Cuba Cuban
Pedro Delgado U 38 " " "
Francisco Delgado U 40 " Candelaria Pinardel Rio, Cuba "
Niebe Delgado A 39 housewife Santa Cruz Pinardel Rio, Cuba "
Maria Delgado A 39 " " " "

12. FOREIGN TRAVEL (Other than as a direct result of United States military duties)

DATES COUNTRY VISITED PURPOSE OF TRAVEL
FROM TO
29 Aug 62 21 Sep 62 Mexico in transit to USA

13. EMPLOYMENT (Show every employment you have had and all periods of unemployment)

MONTH AND YEAR NAME AND ADDRESS OF EMPLOYER NAME OF IMMEDIATE REASON FOR LEAVING
FROM TO SUPERVISOR
Feb 59 Jan 60 Equipos Quesada Nestor Prieto Political reasons
Pinardel Rio, Cuba

DID ANY OF THE ABOVE EMPLOYMENTS REQUIRE A SECURITY CLEARANCE? [ ] YES [X] NO DO YOU HAVE ANY FOREIGN PROPERTY OR BUSINESS CONNECTIONS, OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN EMPLOYED BY A FOREIGN GOVERNMENT, FIRM, OR AGENCY? [ ] YES [X] NO HAVE YOU EVER BEEN REFUSED BOND? [ ] YES [X] NO IF THE ANSWER TO ANY OF THE ABOVE IS "YES," EXPLAIN IN ITEM 20.

SOCIAL SECURITY NO. 463-74-2051

14. CREDIT AND CHARACTER REFERENCES (Do not include relatives, former employers, or persons living outside the United States or its Territories.

NAME YEARS STREET AND NUMBER CITY STATE OR
(List 3 credit and 5 character) KNOWN (Business address preferred) TERRITORY
CHARACTER CREDIT
NONE
Juan Noriega 10 1040 15th St. Apt #15 Miami Beach Fla
Gustado Acosta 10mo 1140 SW 9th St. Miami Fla

REMARKS.

NW 88613 DocId:34528389 Page 3
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1960 0-573450

--- Page 4 ---

15. LIST ALL RESIDENCES FROM 1 JANUARY 1937

MONTH AND YEAR STREET AND NUMBER CITY STATE OR COUNTRY
FROM TO
Jan 37 Aug 62 Finca Sabana La Mar Pinardel Rio Cuba
Aug 62 Dec 62 1140 SW 9th St. Miami Fla.

16. PAST AND/OR PRESENT MEMBERSHIP IN ORGANIZATIONS

NAME AND ADDRESS TYPE MEMBERSHIP OFFICE HELD
(Social, fraternal, professional, etc.) FROM TO
MRC CUBA
MDC CUBA
UNIDAD REVOLUCIONARIA, CUBA
BOde Now, CUBA
Subject claims he assisted any and all organizations against Castro. These were all in Cuba

17. ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN A MEMBER OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY U. S. A., OR ANY COMMUNIST ORGANIZATIONS ANYWHERE? [ ] YES [X] NO
ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN A MEMBER OF A FASCIST ORGANIZATION? [ ] YES [X] NO
ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN A MEMBER OF ANY ORGANIZATION, ASSOCIATION, MOVEMENT, GROUP OR COMBINATION OF PERSONS WHICH ADVOCATES THE OVERTHROW OF OUR CONSTITUTIONAL FORM OF GOVERNMENT, OR WHICH HAS ADOPTED THE POLICY OF ADVOCATING OR APPROVING THE COMMISSION OF ACTS OF FORCE OR VIOLENCE TO DENY OTHER PERSONS THEIR RIGHTS UNDER THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES, OR WHICH SEEKS TO ALTER THE FORM OF GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES BY UNCONSTITUTIONAL MEANS? [ ] YES [X] NO
ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN AFFILIATED OR ASSOCIATED WITH ANY ORGANIZATION OF THE TYPE DESCRIBED ABOVE AS AN AGENT, OFFICIAL, OR EMPLOYEE? [ ] YES [X] NO
ARE YOU NOW ASSOCIATING WITH, OR HAVE YOU ASSOCIATED WITH ANY INDIVIDUALS, INCLUDING RELATIVES, WHO YOU KNOW OR HAVE REASON TO BELIEVE, ARE OR HAVE BEEN MEMBERS OF ANY OF THE ORGANIZATIONS IDENTIFIED ABOVE? [ ] YES [X] NO
HAVE YOU EVER ENGAGED IN ANY OF THE FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES OF ANY ORGANIZATION OF THE TYPE DESCRIBED ABOVE: CONTRIBUTION(S) TO. ATTENDANCE AT OR PARTICIPATION IN ANY ORGANIZATIONAL, SOCIAL, OR OTHER ACTIVITIES OF SAID ORGANIZATIONS OR OF ANY PROJECTS SPONSORED BY THEM: THE SALE, GIFT, OR DISTRIBUTION OF ANY WRITTEN, PRINTED, OR OTHER MATTER, PREPARED, REPRODUCED, OR PUBLISHED, BY THEM OR ANY OF THEIR AGENTS OR INSTRUMENTALITIES? [ ] YES [X] NO

IF YES, DESCRIBE THE CIRCUMSTANCES. ATTACH ADDITIONAL SHEETS FOR A FULL DETAILED STATEMENT. IF ASSOCIATED WITH ANY OF THE ABOVE ORGANIZATIONS, SPECIFY NATURE AND EXTENT OF ASSOCIATION WITH EACH, INCLUDING OFFICE OR POSITION HELD, ALSO INCLUDE DATES, PLACES, AND CREDENTIALS NOW OR FORMERLY HELD. IF ASSOCIATIONS HAVE BEEN WITH INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE MEMBERS OF THE ABOVE ORGANIZATIONS, THEN LIST THE INDIVIDUALS AND THE ORGANIZATIONS WITH WHICH THEY WERE OR ARE AFFILIATED.

18. HAVE YOU EVER BEEN DETAINED, HELD, ARRESTED. INDICTED OR SUMMONED INTO COURT AS A DEFENDANT IN A CRIMINAL PROCEEDING, OR CONVICTED, FINED, OR IMPRISONED OR PLACED ON PROBATION, OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN ORDERED TO DEPOSIT BAIL OR COLLATERAL FOR THE VIOLATION OF ANY LAW, POLICE REGULATION OR ORDINANCE (excluding minor traffic violations for which a fine or forfeiture of $25, or less was imposed)? INCLUDE ALL COURT MARTIALS WHILE IN MILITARY SERVICE. [X] YES [ ] NO
IF YES, LIST THE DATE, THE NATURE OF THE OFFENSE OR VIOLATION, THE NAME AND LOCATION OF THE COURT OR PLACE OF HEARING, AND THE PENALTY IMPOSED OR OTHER DISPOSITION OF EACH CASE.

Has been in Jail without trial in the G-2 of Pinar del Rio, Cuba about 18 days from 22 April 1961 for political reasons.

19. ARE THERE ANY INCIDENTS IN YOUR LIFE NOT MENTIONED HEREIN WHICH MAY REFLECT UPON YOUR LOYALTY TO THE UNITED STATES OR UPON YOUR SUITABILITY TO PERFORM THE DUTIES WHICH YOU MAY BE CALLED UPON TO TAKE OR WHICH MIGHT REQUIRE FURTHER EXPLANATION? [ ] YES [X] NO IF YES. GIVE DETAILS

NW 88613 DocId:34528389 Page 4

--- Page 5 ---

19. ARE THERE ANY INCIDENTS IN YOUR LIFE NOT MENTIONED HEREIN WHICH MAY REFLECT UPON YOUR LOYALTY TO THE UNITED STATES OR UPON YOUR SUITABILITY TO PERFORM THE DUTIES WHICH YOU MAY BE CALLED UPON TO TAKE OR WHICH MIGHT REQUIRE FURTHER EXPLANATION? [ ] YES [X] NO IF YES. GIVE DETAILS

20. REMARKS
ITEM #10
Fernando Romero B San Cristobal Pinardel Rio, Cuba
Finca Santa Amalia Sabana La Mar " " "
Sabina Romero S " " "
Augustina Romero S " " "

I CERTIFY THAT THE ENTRIES MADE BY ME ABOVE ARE TRUE, COMPLETE, AND CORRECT TO THE BEST OF MY KNOWLEDGE AND BELIEF AND ARE MADE IN GOOD FAITH. I UNDERSTAND THAT A KNOWING AND WILLFUL FALSE STATEMENT ON THIS FORM CAN BE PUNISHED BY FINE OR IMPRISONMENT OR BOTH (See U. S. Code, title 18, section 1001)

DATE SIGNATURE OF PERSON COMPLETING FORM
18 Jan 63 Edifanio Romero Delgado

TYPED NAME AND ADDRESS OF WITNESS SIGNATURE OF WITNESS
LUIS A. ZAYAS, MSGT, AFES&IS, CORAL GABLES, FLA.

21. THIS SECTION TO BE COMPLETED BY AUTHORITY REQUESTING Investigation

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DUTY ASSIGNMENT AND DEGREE OF CLASSIFIED MATTER (top secret, secret, etc.) TO WHICH APPLICANT WILL REQUIRE ACCESS

RECORD OF PRIOR CLEARANCES
DATE OF CLEARANCE TYPE OF CLEARANCE AGENCY THAT COMPLETED INVESTIGATION
REMARKS.

NW 88613 DocId:34528389 Page 5
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1960 0-573450
