Date : 08/19/98
Page : 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10005-10066
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PAGES 85-86

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM : [ RESTRICTED ]
TO : [ RESTRICTED ]
TITLE : [ RESTRICTED ]
DATE : 10/27/58
PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS : SCHEER, ROBERT
EMPLOYMENT
REPORT OF FINDINGS
HILLTOP LODGE
AGENT REPORT
[ RESTRICTED ]

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : SEE AGENT'S NOTES.

NW 886173 DocId:34529852 Page 1

AGENT REPORT
(SR 380-320-10)

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT 2. DATE SUBMITTED

SCHEER, Robert 27 October 1958
Pre-Inductee
DOB: 4 April 1936 3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER
POB: Bronx, New York H1-01691

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

(EMPLOYMENT) On 27 October 1958, Paul Wolfson, 424 Marlborough Road,
Brooklyn, New York, former co-owner of Hilltop Lodge, a listed employment of
SUBJECT, supplied the following information in substance:

Name Recorded: Robert SHEER

Residence Address: 653 Britton Street,
Bronx, New York

Social Security Number: 112-28-1134

Dates of Employment: July and August 1953

Job Title: Waiter, summer camp

Rate of Pay: $60.00 monthly. Total pay $121.50
Reason For Leaving: End of summer season

Eligible for Rehire: Yes

Other Pertinent Information: SUBJECT listed occupation as student,
enrolled to attend Queens College,
beginning in September 1953.

5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT

PAUL F. ROHDE, 108th CIC Group

6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT

U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1954—O-284854

DA FORM 1 APR 52 341 REPLACES WD AGO FORM 341, 1 JUN 47 WHICH MAY BE USED.
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

NW 886173 DocId:34529852 Page 2

AGENT REPORT
(SR 380-320-10)

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT 2. DATE SUBMITTED

SCHEER, Robert 27 October 1958
Pre-Inductee
POB: Bronx, New York 3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER
H1-01691

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

(EMPLOYMENT) On 27 October 1958, Paul Wolfson, accountant, and former
co-owner of Hilltop Lodge, Sylvan Lake, New York, with residence at 424 Marl-
borough Road, Brooklyn, New York, declined to be interviewed at his residence
but furnished substantially the following information spontaneously in tele-
honic contact:

Source knew SUBJECT as a summer camp waiter employed at Hilltop Lodge,
during July and August 1953. Frequency of contact was several times weekly,
and the last contact was in August 1953.

SUBJECT performed HIS duties well, got along well with guests at Hill-
top Lodge, and left in August 1953, at the end of the 1953 Summer season.
Source found SUBJECT an honest, trustworthy and reliable employee. HE used
good judgment in the performance of HIS duties, and departed this job eligible
for rehire. Source knew nothing further concerning SUBJECT'S background,
associates, or loyalty to the United States.

AGENT'S NOTES: Numerous attempts were made to personally interview
Source at 424 Marlborough Road, Brooklyn, New York with negative results.
Source called the 108th CIC Group, and furnished the above information. The
call was in response to a letter left at his residence requesting an appoint-
ment for interview.

5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT 6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT

PAUL F. ROHDE, 108th CIC Group Paul N Rohile

DA FORM 1 APR 52 341 REPLACES WD AGO FORM 341, 1 JUN 47, WHICH MAY BE USED.
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1954—O-284854

NW 886173 DocId:34529852 Page 3
