Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#: NW 88613
Date: 03-18-2025

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION

Date: 01/14/98
Page: 1
AGENCY: INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER: 194-10004-10375
RECORDS SERIES: DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: PAGES 29-30

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR: USA
FROM: [RESTRICTED]
TO: [RESTRICTED]
TITLE: [RESTRICTED]
DATE: 11/21/68
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS: MARTI, MANUEL
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS:

NW 88613 DocId:34529191 Page 1

AGENT REPORT
(AR 381-130; FM 30-17)

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT
SUBJECT: MARTI, Manuel NMN
ASN-SSN: PVT E-1, US 52 737 780
DOB/POB: 17 May 1946, San Juan, Puerto Rico
POB:

2. DATE SUBMITTED
21 November 1968

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER
8240-6019
093 36 4601

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

SCHOOL: Evander Childs High School
ADDRESS: Bronxwood Avenue and East Gun Hill Road, Bronx, New York (N.Y.)
SOURCE: Mrs. Ruth Schwartz
POSITION: Student Records Clerk
DATE and Place of Interview: 8 October 1968 at school.

1. Subject's Name with Aliases: Manuel MARTI
2. Address: 905 East 167th Street, Bronx, New York
3. Previous Addresses: 1201 University Avenue, Bronx, N.Y.
4. Date and Place of Birth: 17 May 1946, San Juan, Puerto Rico
5. Date of Attendance: September 1961 to June 1964
6. Courses and/or Major: General High School Courses
7. Instructors: Mrs. Kerman; Mr. Herbert Tandlich
8. Graduate (Degree): Graduated
9. Grades: Average
10. Record of Transcripts: Available from records.
11. Previous Education: Theodore Roosevelt Evening School, Fordham Road; Bronx, N.Y.
Junior High School 136, Bronx, N.Y.
12. Employments: Mutual Insurance Advisory Association, April 7, 1965.
13. Parents or Guardian: Father, Manuel; Mother, Reyes
14. Remarks: None

AGENT'S NOTE:
No information in regard to father's DPOB was available from records.

PARA 28 AR 381-130 APPLIES
"FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY", THIS PROTECTIVE MARKING IS EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC TERMINATION
LISTED EDUCATION RECORD

5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT
PAUL P. BAILLARGEON, 108th MI Gp (I-NYFO)

6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT
Robert C. Sheaffer

DA FORM 341
1 APR 52

NW 88613 DocId:34529191 Page 2

AGENT REPORT
(AR 381-130; FM 30-17)

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT
MARTI, Manuel NMN
PVT E-1, US 52 737 780
DPOB: 17 May 1946, San Juan, Puerto Rico

2. DATE SUBMITTED
21 November 1968

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER
8240-6019
093 36 4601

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

(EDUCATION INTERVIEW) On 8 October 1968, Herbert Tandlich of
501 Riverdale Avenue, Yonkers, New York, former instructor of Manuel
MARTI at Evander Childs High School, Bronxwood Avenue and East Gun Hill
Road, Bronx, New York, was interviewed at the school and stated substantially
as follows:

Source first met SUBJECT in September of 1963 and had HIM as a
student in the "shop course" until June of 1964. SUBJECT was an excellent
student to the best of Source's memory and he had daily contact with HIM on
an instructor-student basis. Source did not know anything about SUBJECT'S
family nor where HE resided. HE was considered to be mentally stable and
mature without any memberships in any political organizations. Source had
no knowledge of SUBJECT'S association with HIS father and could not comment on
the degree of influence exercised by HIS father over HIM.

Source considered SUBJECT to be loyal to the United States form
of government and recommends that HE be considered favorably for a position
of trust and responsibility with the United States government.

5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT
PAUL P. BAILLARGEON, 108th MI Gp (I-NYFO)

6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT
Robert C. Sheaffer

DA FORM 341
1 APR 52
REPLACES WD AGO FORM 341, 1 JUN 47, WHICH MAY BE USED.

NW 88613 DocId:34529191 Page 3
