```markdown
Date: 08/12/98
Page: 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER: 194-10002-10187
RECORDS SERIES: DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: PAGES 866-961

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: [ RESTRICTED ]
TO: [ RESTRICTED ]
TITLE: [ RESTRICTED ]
DATE: 04/08/66
PAGES: 96
SUBJECTS: SCHEER, ROBERT
VIETNAM DAY COMMITTEE
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY
VIETNAM DAY COMMITTEE STRUCTURE
VIETNAM DAY COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES
VIETNAM DAY COMMITTEE FINANCES
PROGRESSIVE LABOR PARTY
W. E. B. DU BOIS CLUBS OF AMERICA
REPORT
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/17/98
OPENING CRITERIA: COMPLETION OF REVIEW BY FBI
COMMENTS: COORDINATION WITH FBI HAS BEEN COMPLETED AND
DETERMINED TO BE RELEASED WITH RESTRICTIONS,
PER MEMO DTD 05 JUNE 98.

FD-204 (Rev. 3-3-59)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to: 1 - G-2, San Francisco (REGISTERED MAIL)
1 - DIO, San Francisco (REGISTERED MAIL)
1 - OSI, Travis AFB (REGISTERED MAIL)

Report of: FRANK S. PERRONE Office: SAN FRANCISCO
Date: 4/8/66 Bureau File #: 105-141817
Field Office File #: 100-55462
Title: VIETNAM DAY COMMITTEE
Character: INFORMATION CONCERNING
(INTERNAL SECURITY)

Synopsis: Vietnam Day Committee (VDC), Berkeley, California, continues
to maintain headquarters at 2407 Fulton Street, Berkeley.
Comments concerning members of VDC Steering Committee set forth.
Protest demonstrations sponsored by VDC during past 6 months
include numerous protest rallies at University of California,
Berkeley (UCB); demonstrations against Vice President HUMPHREY
and Secretary of State RUSK in December, 1965; marches and
sit-in at offices of U.S. Congressman COHELAN, Oakland,
California; march on Oakland Induction Center 2/23/66, and
protest rally and activities against UN Ambassador GOLDBERG
in Berkeley on 3/25/66. CP, SWP, PLP and W.E.B. DuBois
Clubs of America, Berkeley Chapter, have given assistance to
VDC during past 6 months. On 1/21/66, VDC checking account
had balance of $310.34.

DETAILS:

I. HEADQUARTERS

SF T-1 related on March 17, 1966, that the head-
quarters of the Vietnam Day Committee (VDC) continued to
be located at 2407 Fulton Street, Berkeley, California.

SF 100-55462
FSP:mb

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Page(s)
I. HEADQUARTERS 1
II. STRUCTURE OF THE VDC 2
III. MEMBERS OF THE VDC STEERING 3 - 25
COMMITTEE
IV. ACTIVITIES 25-33
Protest Demonstrations
A. Demonstration at Voting Residence 33
of Governor EDMUND G. BROWN,
460 Magellan Avenue, San
Francisco, September 26, 1965
B. International Days of Protest, 34-38
October 15-16, 1965
C. Protest March, November 20, 1965 39-43
D. Demonstration Against Vice-president 43-45
HUBERT HUMPHREY, Fairmont Hotel,
San Francisco, December 3, 1965
E. Demonstrations Against U.S. Secretary 45-46
of State DEAN RUSK and Vice-president
HUMPHREY, San Francisco,
December 10, 1965
F. Demonstration at Offices of U.S.
Congressman JEFFERY COHELAN,
Oakland, on the following dates:
1. January 31, 1966 46-47
2. February 2, 1966 47-50
3. February 7, 1966 50-52

SF 100-55462
FSP: mb

TABLE OF CONTENTS Continued

Page(s)
G. Three-Day Protest Rally and 52-54
Planned Strike, UCB,
February 7, 8, and 9, 1966
H. Demonstration at Oakland 54-56
Induction Center,
February 23, 1966
I. Demonstration Against UN 56-57
Ambassador ARTHUR J. GOLDBERG,
Greek Theater, UCB,
March 25, 1966
V. ANTI-DRAFT COMMITTEE OF THE VDC 57-60
VI. COMMUNIST PARTY (CP) ASSISTANCE 60
TO THE VDC
VII. SWP ASSISTANCE TO THE VDC 60
VIII. PLP ASSISTANCE TO THE VDC 60-61
IX. W.E.B. DU BOIS CLUBS OF AMERICA (DCA) 61-62
ASSISTANCE TO THE VDC
X. FINANCES 62-64

SF 100-55462
FSP: mfm

II. STRUCTURE OF THE VDC

SF T-2 on September 20, 1965 furnished a copy of
a mimeographed leaflet captioned, "SUGGESTION FOR THE
STRUCTURE OF THE V.D.C." The leaflet set forth the follow-
ing information:

The Steering Committee of 30 will meet every Sun-
day night at open meetings, with the following purposes:

"1. to make proposals to the Tuesday night
general membership meeting.

"2. to carry out decisions of the membership."
The leaflet informed that all actions by the Steering Committee
would be announced at the opening of the Tuesday night meeting
of the general membership. According to the leaflet, the
general membership is the final authority on all policy deci-
sions.

The leaflet went on to inform that the basic working
arrangement of the VDC is that individual committees work
autonomously and make their own decisions within the general
framework of philosophy and allocation of resources as de-
cided by the Steering Committee and the general membership.

Continuing, the leaflet related that individual
committees must bring their actions to the Steering Com-
mittee and the membership when their actions are a matter
of political or organizational principle and large allocation
of resources. Voting in the Tuesday VDC meeting is based
exclusively on membership in the VDC, which is defined as
possession of a membership card and active work. According
to the leaflet, the Steering Committee is also empowered
to make and carry out day-to-day decisions of the VDC and to
choose a smaller committee or committees to do the same.

The leaflet commented that the general membership will set
the next date for election of a new Steering Committee.

SF 100-55462
FSP: mfm

III. MEMBERS OF THE STEERING COMMITTEE

SF T-1 on September 9, 1965, furnished a copy of
a leaflet which set forth the names of the following individuals
who were associated with the VDC; SF T-1 described the in-
dividuals listed as members of the Steering Committee of the
VDC:

Name Committee
BART ABBOTT Strategic Research Organization
(SRO)
ANYA ALLISTER Finances, Legal Committee,
Staff Member
WALTER BATTAGLIA Finances, Legal Committee,
Staff Member
NEAL BLUMENFELD Legal Committee, Finances
PETE COHEN Program Committee, Press
MARGE COLVIN Magazine, Finances, Program
Committees
NANYA CORN Staff Member
KIPP DAWSON CBS Committee, Program
MIKE DELACOUR Community Work
FRED GIBSON Community Work
ADJA GORBACH No committee listed
PAUL IVORY California Campus and Research
HOWARD JETER No committee listed
LARRY LOUGHLIN Finances, Staff Member
MARILYN MILLIGAN Community Work, Staff Member

SF 100-55462
FSP:mfm

Name Committee
PAUL MONTAUK Veterans Committee, Program
MIKE O'HANLON Campus and Coordinating
Committees
JOANNE PEYTON Community Work
SUZANNE POLLARD Chairman, International Contacts
JANET PUGH Publicity Chairman
JON READ Office Manager
JERRY RUBIN Staff Member
JOHN SELTZ Office Worker, SRO
STEVE SMALE Staff Member
WINDRIM SMITH SRO
LOUISE STAPLETON Community Work
SID STAPLETON Speakers Bureau
MARION STEINKELLNER Community Work
PHIL SUGAR Newspaper Editor
ARTHUR TURNER No committee listed
DAVE WARREN SRO
STEVE WEISSMAN Chairman, SRO
PHIL WHITE Correspondence, National
Contacts
JOHN WILLIAMS Office Manager

SF 100-55462
FSP: mfm

Name Committee
ANNALIESA ZACH Staff Member, Finances,
Receptionist

SF T-3 on February 18, 1954, identified BART
ABBOTT as an "active" member of the Workers Party
and the Independent Socialist League (ISL) in the
San Francisco Bay Area from 1947 - 1951.

The ISL had been listed by the Attorney General of
the United States pursuant to Executive Order 10450.
The ISL was removed from the list in July, 1958.

Attorney General TOM CLARK, in letters to the
Loyalty Review Board, released December 4, 1947,
and September 21, 1948, and Attorney General J.
HOWARD MC GRATH in a letter to the Loyalty Review
Board released September 29, 1949, described the
Workers Party (1940 - 1948) as a subversive and
communist organization which sought to alter the
form of the United States by un-Constitutional means.
In its official organ, "Labor Action of 1949", the
Workers Party announced that at the 5th National
Convention it had voted to relinquish the name of
the Workers Party and adopt the name of the In-
dependent Socialist League.

ANYA ALLISTER,
also known as
Ann Allister

The records of the Sheriff's Office, Alameda County,
California, set forth the following information
for ANYA ALLISTER:

Race White
Sex Female
Born October 24, 1942, New York,
New York

SF 100-55462
FSP: mfm

(Information concerning ANYA ALLISTER
Continued)
Height 5'2"
Weight 115 lbs.
Hair Brown
Eyes Hazel

Social Security No. 135-35-5411

Records of the Alameda County Sheriff's Office,
Oakland, California, also disclosed that ANN
ALLISTER under #64-11204 was arrested December 3,
1964 in connection with a sit-in demonstration
at Sproul Hall, University of California, Berkeley
(UCB). She was charged with trespassing, resist-
ing arrest and failure to disperse. In June, 1965,
she was found guilty of the trespassing and resist-
ing arrest charges and failure to disperse charge
was dismissed.

WALTER BATTAGLIA

A review of the records of the Registrar's Office,
UCB, revealed the following description for BATTAGLIA:

Race White
Sex Male
Date and place April 14, 1940, Needham,
of birth Massachusetts
Residence 1115 G 10th Street
Albany, California

NEAL BLUMENFELD,
also known as
Neal Horton

SF T-4 reported on June 10, 1965, that NEAL
BLUMENFELD had made a pledge of $5.00 per month to
the National Committee to Abolish the House Committee
on UnAmerican Activities (NCAHCUA) and had recently
sent in his $5.00 pledge for the month of June,
1965.

SF 100-55462
FSP: mfm

A characterization for the NCAHCUA is contained
in the Appendix Section.

The following information was set forth under U.S.
Passport #28966, issued on May 15, 1951, for
BLUMENFELD:

Race White
Sex Male
Date and place November 26, 1930, Minnea-
of birth polis, Minnesota
Height 5'11 1/2"
Hair Brown
Eyes Blue
Father Dr. CHARLES H. BLUMENFELD
Mother PAULINE BLUMENFELD, nee
Ginsberg

PETER COHEN

SF T-5 has reported that on December 7, 1965, PETER
COHEN made the following statement in Berkeley:

"The struggle to build the American re-
volution is as much a struggle to save
the human race from nuclear destruction
as it is one for socialism. America is
not a healthy society. I defend terrorism.
Bank robbery is fine, but it does little
to weaken the government; it only puts
money into hands of revolutionaries. As
for the killing of President KENNEDY, shoot-
ing the President is a legitimate, left-
wing act of terror."

A review of the records of the Department of Motor
Vehicles, Sacramento, California school records and
from observation revealed the following description
for PETER COHEN:

Race White
Sex Male
Date and place September 7, 1946, Chicago,
of birth Illinois

SF 100-55462
FSP:mfm

(Information concerning PETER COHEN
Continued)
Height 6'2"
Weight 170 lbs.
Hair Brown, heavy, bushy and
worn long
Eyes Hazel

MARGE COLVIN

SF T-6 in October 1965 identified MARGE COLVIN
as a member of the San Francisco Branch of the
Socialist Workers Party (SWP).

A characterization for the San Francisco Branch
of the SWP is contained in the Appendix Section.

MANYA J. CORN,
also known as
Nancy J. Corn

A review of the records of the Berkeley Police
Department revealed that NANCY J. CORN, also known
as Manya Corn was arrested by the Berkeley Police
Department for failure to have in her possession an
automobile driver's permit. She was released on
$56.00 bail.

On January 7, 1966, NANYA CORN pled not guilty to
the charge however, she was found guilty and the
judgment was suspended.

The following is a description of NANYA CORN as set
forth in the records of the Berkeley Police Depart-
ment:
Race White
Sex Female
Date and place January 30, 1943, New
of birth York
Height 5'3"

SF 100-55462
FSP: mfm

(Information concerning NANYA CORN
Continued)
Weight 140 lbs.
Hair Bleached blonde

Social Security No. 107-34-5380
KIPP DAWSON

SF T-7 in October, 1965, identified KIPP DAWSON as
a member of the San Francisco Branch of the SWP.

MIKE DELACOUR

SF T-1 has described MIKE DELACOUR as follows:

Race White
Sex Male
Age In his mid-20s
Height 5'11"
Weight 170 lbs.
Hair Wears Beatle-type haircut

FRED GIBSON

SF T-1 informed on October 25, 1965 that on October
23, 1965, one FRED GIBSON attended a Youth For Jobs
(YFJ) meeting at 59th Street and San Pablo Avenue,
Oakland.

A characterization for YFJ is contained in the Ap-
pendix Section.

ADJA GOLDFINE GORBACH

A review of the records of the Registrar's Office,
UCB, revealed the following description for GORBACH:

Race White
Sex Female
Date and place September 16, 1940, Chicago,
of birth Illinois

SF 100-55462
FSP: mfm

(Information concerning ADJA GOLDFINE GORBACH
Continued)
Residence 1811 Spruce Street
Berkeley, California
Marital status Single
Attends UCB as a limited under-
graduate student

PAUL IVORY

SF T-8 on July 16, 1965, identified PAUL IVORY as
Co-Chairman of the VDC who cooperated with members
of the Young Socialist League (YSL) who were trying
to influence the VDC.

A characterization for the YSL is contained in the
Appendix Section.

PAUL IVORY is a UCB Assistant Professor of Economics.

HOWARD P. JETER

SF T-9 has reported that on September 1, 1964,
HOWARD P. JETER in discussing a throwaway leaflet
distributed at the Democratic National Convention
in Atlantic City, New Jersey, identified himself
as President of the 7th Congressional District
Democratic Club, Berkeley, and remarked his club
had been kicked out of the California Democratic
Club because of the club's extreme left-wing
position.

LAWRENCE ROBERT LOUGHLIN
also known as
LARRY LOUGHLIN

A review of the records of the San Francisco,
California Police Department revealed that LAWRENCE
ROBERT LOUGHLIN was arrested by the San Francisco
Police Department on August 24, 1965, and charged
with trespassing and resisting arrest. The charges
arose from a demonstration against General MAXWELL
TAYLOR at the Fairmont Hotel, San Francisco.

SF 100-55462
FSP mfm

General TAYLOR was a former Ambassador to
Vietnam.

After LOUGHLIN had pled nolle contendere, he was
sentenced on February 16, 1966, to 6 months in the
San Francisco County Jail, sentence suspended and
placed on 1 year probation.

A review of the records of the San Francisco Police
Department revealed the following description for
LOUGHLIN:
Race White
Sex Male
Date and place October 13, 1932, Cambridge,
of birth Massachusetts
Height 5'8"
Weight 160 lbs.
Hair Brown
Eyes Brown

Social Security No. 019-24-5527
San Francisco Police
Department # 202848

MARILYN MILLIGAN

A review of the records of the Alameda County
Sheriff's Office, Oakland, revealed the following
description for MARILYN MILLIGAN:

Race White
Sex Female
Date and place November 11, 1934, New York,
of birth New York
Height 5'6"
Weight 140 lbs.
Hair Brown
Eyes Brown

Social Security No. 091-26-9438
California State
Bureau of Criminal
Identification and
Investigation #
G-725564

SF 100-55462
FSP mfm

The records also revealed that MARILYN MILLIGAN
was arrested on December 3, 1964 under S/O
#641125 in connection with a sit-in demonstration
at Sproul Hall, UCB. She was charged with resist-
ing arrest, failure to disperse and trespassing.

On June 28, 1965, she was found guilty of the tres-
passing and resisting arrest charges and the failure
to disperse charge was dismissed. On July 29, 1965,
she refused probation and was sentenced to $100.00
or 10 days in jail on the trespassing charge, and
$150.00 or 15 days in jail on the resisting arrest
charge. She has appealed the convictions.

PAUL MONTAUK

SF T-6 on October 8, 1965, identified PAUL MONTAUK
as an alternate member of the SWP National Com-
mittee and a member of the Oakland-Berkeley Branch
of the SWP.

A characterization of the Oakland-Berkeley Branch
of the SWP is contained in the Appendix Section.

MICHAEL J. O'HANLON,
true name FRANCIS GEORGE MEDAILLE

On January 5, 1966, Deputy Sheriff JOHN CRISAN,
Monterey County, California Sheriff's Office, furnished
some membership cards issued to MICHAEL J. O'HANLON,
which he had obtained from a forest ranger at the Big
Sur Park in December 1965. CRISAN stated he had
no further information concerning O'HANLON and as-
sumed the cards had been lost at the park. Among
the cards were membership cards signed by O'HANLON
for the Industrial Workers of the World (IWW),
Students for a Democratic Society (SDS) and the VDC.

The IWW has been designated by the Attorney General
of the United States pursuant to Executive Order
10450.

"STUDENTS FOR A DEMOCRATIC SOCIETY is an associa-
tion of young people on the left...; one bringing

SF 100-55462
FSP mfm

together liberals and radicals, activists and
scholars, students and faculty. It feels the ur-
gency to put forth a radical, democratic program
counterposed to authoritarian movements both
of Communism and the domestic Right.

Preamble, SDS Constitution"

During the 1965 National Convention of the SDS,
the Preamble of the Constitution was amended to
eliminate "counterposed to authoritarian move-
ments both of Communism and the domestic Right."
SDS Worklist No. 14 7/28/65

When he was stopped by a Highway Patrol Officer
on February 18, 1966 in Ocala Florida O'HANLON
had a membership card for the W.E.B. DuBois Clubs
of America (DCA) in his possession.

A characterization for the DCA is contained in the
Appendix Section.

The FBI Laboratory informed on February 17, 1966,
that from fingerprints examination revealed that
MICHAEL J. O'HANLON was identical with FRANCIS GEORGE
MEDAILLE, FBI #874 775C.

In the March 20, 1966 issue of the "San Francisco
Examiner", a San Francisco daily newspaper, information
was set forth that FRANCIS GEORGE MEDAILLE was ar-
rested in 1958 on a homicide charge in New York
for throwing a 6-year old girl from the roof of a
building. MEDAILLE was sent to a mental institu-
tion until May 5, 1963, when he pled guilty to a
manslaughter charge, 1st degree. He received a 5 - 10
year suspended sentence and was placed on 5 years
probation. A probation violators warrant is cur-
rently outstanding against MEDAILLE issued by the
State of New York.

JOANNE PEYTON
nee Joanne Barker Ward

A review of the records of the Registrar's Office,

SF 100-55462
FSP: mfm

UCB, revealed the following description for
JOANNE PEYTON:

Race White
Sex Female
Date and place August 8, 1936, Cleveland,
of birth Ohio
Current 1416 Grove Street, Apartment 4
residence Berkeley, California

SUZANNE POLLARD,
also known as
Susan Erica Pollard (true name)

A review of the records of the Registrar's Office,
UCB, revealed the following description for POLLARD:

Race White
Sex Female
Date and place March 4, 1941, Baltimore,
of birth Maryland
Residence 2112 McKinley Avenue
Berkeley, California
Graduate student at UCB

JANET MARILYN PUGH

A review of the records of the Registrar's Office,
UCB, revealed the following description for JANET
MARILYN PUGH:

Race White
Sex Female
Date and place December 24, 1939, Red
of birth Bluff, California
Permanent 200 Cedar Street
residence Red Bluff, California

JON JOSEPH READ

SF T-7 reported on April 18, 1963 that on April 15,
1963, JON JOSEPH READ was elected to the Executive
Board of the Bay Area Fair Play for Cuba Committee
(FPCC).

SF 100-55462
FSP: mfm

A characterization for the FPCC is contained in
the Appendix Section.

JERRY RUBIN

In the August 9, 1965 issue of the "San Francisco
Chronicle", San Francisco daily newspaper, informa-
tion was set forth that JERRY RUBIN in the summer
of 1964 traveled to Cuba in defiance of a U.S. Depart-
ment of State travel ban. According to the article,
the trip was sponsored by the Student Committee for
Travel to Cuba (SCTC).

A characterization for the SCTC is contained in the
Appendix Section.

SF T-10 reported on February 19, 1965, that JERRY
RUBIN was enrolled for the fall, 1964 semester
of the San Francisco School of Social Sciences
(SFSSS).

A characterization for the SFSSS is contained in
the Appendix Section.

JOHN PETER SELTZ

On July 20, 1960, JOHN PETER SELTZ furnished the
following background information to Special Agents
of the FBI:

Race White
Sex Male
Date and place December 6, 1939, Boston,
of birth Massachusetts
Height 6'1"
Weight 150 lbs.
Build Slender
Hair Blond
Eyes Blue

Social Security No. 331-34-0574
Military service Served in the U.S. Marine Corps
from 7/1/57 - 12/31/57,
honorably discharged, MSN
1658807

SF 100-55462
FSP:mfm

JOHN CLIFFORD NORDEEN, 9125 Marmora Avenue, Morton
Grove, Illinois, a self-described friend of JOHN
PETER SELTZ, has informed that SELTZ served under
one ALEJANDRO MARTINEZ, leader of an anti-Somoza
Nicaraguan revolutionary group on the Honduras-
Nicaragua border during May and June, 1960.

STEPHEN SMALE,
also known as
Steve Smale

SF T-11 in February, 1952 identified STEVE SMALE
as a member of the Labor Youth League (LYL)
at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan.

The LYL has been designated by the Attorney General
of the United States pursuant to Executive Order
10450.

The LYL became defunct in February, 1957.

SF T-12 in January, 1961, identified SMALE as
Faculty Adviser of the Students Committee FPCC at
UCB.

STEPHEN SMALE is a UCB Mathematics Professor.

JOHN WINDRIM SMITH, JR.,
also known as
Windy Smith

SF T-13 reported on November 15, 1963 and March
27, 1964, that JOHN WINDRIM SMITH, JR. was a member
of the Southern California District Communist Party
(CP).

SF T-14 reported on February 25, 1966, that WINDY
SMITH was a transfer to the Marin County, California
CP Club however, he had not attended any meetings
of the club.

SF 100-55462
FSP:mfm

LOUISE J. STAPLETON

SF T-1 informed on August 17, 1965, that in his
opinion, LOUISE STAPLETON was not in sympathy
with the VDC but was simply looking for "some
excitement and likes to demonstrate." SF T-1
added that LOUISE STAPLETON was an employee of
the Child Care Center in Oakland and resided at 419
63rd Street, Oakland.

SYDNEY STAPLETON
also known as
Sid Stapleton

SF T-15 on September 22, 1965, identified SID
STAPLETON as a "current" member of the Oakland-
Berkeley Branch of the SWP.

MARION J. STEINKELLNER,
also known as
Mrs. Frank Steinkellner,
nee Kuykendall

A review of the records of the Department of Motor
Vehicles, Sacramento, revealed that a chauffeur's
permit was issued to MARION J. STEINKELLNER under
#M 268006, issued December 8, 1964. Her birth date
was listed as June 7, 1930, brown hair, brown eyes,
5'8", 155 lbs., married. According to the permit,
she must wear corrective lenses and her address
was shown as 1903 Henry Street, Berkeley.

According to the Certificate of Registry of
Marriage maintained by the Department of Public
Health, State of California, San Francisco,
Steinkellner listed her birth date as March 7,
1938, Michigan.

PHIL SUGAR

SF T-2 on September 28, 1965, furnished a copy of
a cardboard poster which stated, "VDC Defendant--
I will commit civil disobedience on 10/15-16 with

SF 100-55462
FSP: mfm

"the Vietnam Day Committee and am prepared to be
arrested in opposition to U.S. intervention in
Vietnam. I am joining this committee to organize
my political defense." The statement was signed
by SUGAR, who listed his address as 1048 Francisco,
Berkeley, phone 549-1385.

SF T-1 on September 30, 1965 described PHIL SUGAR
as a white male, in his mid-20s, 5'9", 200 - 215
lbs., and a student at Merritt College, Oakland.

ARTHUR TURNER

SF T-16 on April 20, 1965, informed that one
ARTHUR LEE TURNER was a delegate to the Progressive
Labor Party (PLP) Founding Convention which was
held in New York from April 15 - 18, 1965.

TURNER was a delegate from San Francisco.

A characterization for the PLP is contained in
the Appendix Section.

DAVID A. WARREN,
also known as
Dave Warren

On November 9, 1965, Sergeant JOSEPH P. HALLERAN,
UCB Campus Police, furnished a list of student
organizations registered with the Dean of Students
Office for the fall of 1965, UCB. DAVID WARREN,
1105 F 6th Street, Berkeley, was listed as the
representative for the Berkeley Chapter of the
Young Socialist Alliance (YSA).

A characterization for the YSA is contained in
the Appendix Section.

STEPHAN MARK WEISSMAN,
also known as
Steve Weissman

SF T-12 has informed that STEVE WEISSMAN held a
BA Degree from the University of Tampa and an

SF 100-55462
FSP: mfm

MA Degree from the University of Michigan. He
enrolled at UCB as a graduate student for the
fall semester, 1964. He was a strategist for
the Free Speech Movement (FSM) demonstrations
during the latter part of 1964 on the UCB campus.
He organized a strike of teaching assistants at UCB
in support of the FSM.

The FSM was an organization which evolved at UCB
out of a disagreement between students and UCB
administration of UCB policy regarding campus
organizations.

WEISSMAN, according to his academic file at Tampa
University, December 9, 1964, has a history of self-
admitted emotional instability for which he had been
under psycho-therapy treatment from October, 1958 -
January, 1960. His father informed in April, 1965
that his son was not a Marxist had no communist
leanings whatsoever and considered the United
States the best country in the world but one which
still needed improvement.

Review of the records of the Registrar's Office,
UCB, revealed the following description for
STEPHAN MARK WEISSMAN:

Race White
Sex Male
Date and place March 22, 1940, Tampa,
of birth Florida
Height 5'10"
Weight 160 lbs.
Eyes Hazel
Hair Auburn

PHILIP HUMBERT WHITE,
also known as
Phil White

A review of the records of the Registrar's Office,
UCB, revealed the following description for PHILIP
HUMBERT WHITE:

SF 100-55462
FSP:mfm

(Description of PHILIP HUMBERT WHITE)

Race White
Sex Male
Date and place May 28, 1941, San Diego,
of birth California
Height 6'4"
Build Slender

JOHN GARRETT WILLIAMS

SF T-17 on March 22, 1965, identified JOHN GARRETT
WILLIAMS as an active member of the DCA, Berkeley
Chapter.

SF T-18 reported on February 23, 1966, that WILLIAMS
attended an Executive Board meeting of the DCA
Berkeley Chapter which was held at his residence.

ANNELIESE HELGA ZACH,
also known as
Annaliesa Helga Zach (True Name)

A review of the records of the Registrar's Office,
UCB, revealed the following description for ZACH:

Race White
Sex Female
Date and place September 8, 1943, Vienna,
of birth Austria
Residence 2143 Stewart Street
Berkeley, California

In December 1965, she changed her name from ANNELIESE
HELGA ZACH to ANNALIESA HELGA ZACH.

SF T-19 reported in October, 1965, that on September
7, 1965, in addition to the previously mentioned members of
the VDC Steering Committee, STEVE CHERKOSS, BARTON STONE
and JACK WEINBERG were also members of the Steering Committee.

SF 100-55462
FSP mfm

SF T-20 on October 10, 1965, identified STEVE
CHERKOSS as a "current active member of the Bay
Area PLP.

SF T-21 informed on October 9, 1964, that on
October 11, 1964, JACK WEINBERG attended a general
membership meeting of the DCA, Berkeley Chapter.

WEINBERG was arrested at UCB in connection with a
sit-in demonstration