Date : 01/20/98
Page : 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10004-10162
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PAGE 460

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM : [ RESTRICTED ]
TO : [ RESTRICTED ]
TITLE : [ RESTRICTED ]
DATE : 11/29/66
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS : FROMER, DAVID REED
SUBJECT INTERVIEW
SECURITY FORMS
CONSCIENTIOUS OBJECTION

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :

NW 88613 DocId:34528609 Page 1

AGENT REPORT

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT
FROMER, David Reed.
DOB: 21 July 1942
POB: Chicago, Illinois
SSvc Registrant, SSN 564 58 8137

2. DATE SUBMITTED
29 November 1966

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

(SUBJECT INTERVIEW) On 21 November 1966, David Reed FROMER, Student
University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin, with residence at 140 Langdon
Street, Madison, and with permanent mailing address at Rhonda Way, Mill Valley,
California, was contacted at the Armed Forces Entrance and Examination Station,
1509 Clay Street, Oakland, California. It was explained to FROMER that it is
the policy of the Department of the Army to interview all persons who refuse to
fill out their DD Form 98, Personnel Security Questionnaire, and qualify their
DD Form 398, Statement of Personal History, at the time they are called upon for
processing under the conscription laws of the United States. SUBJECT was informed
that the purpose of the interview was to give HIM the opportunity to furnish an
explanation concerning HIS reasons for refusing to fill out and qualify the
above mentioned forms and to furnish any additional information which might be
useful in making a determination of HIS case. FROMER was advised of HIS rights
under the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States and Article
31, Uniform Code of Military Justice. HE was further advised of HIS right to
legal counsel concerning the interview. FROMER refused to be interviewed under
oath or make any statement concerning the above mentioned forms based upon HIS
rights under the First and Fifth Amendments to the Constitution of the United
States. SUBJECT only stated that HE had formerly made application for conscientious
objection, that HIS right of appeal had been denied by the United States District
Court on 13 October 1966, and that HIS lawyers had initiated action to have the
appeal heard by a higher court. SUBJECT further indicated that HE did not wish
to make a statement because HIS personal attorney, Peter Franck, a family attorney,
Vincent Hallinan, were not available at this time to speak in HIS behalf.

AGENT'S NOTES: SUBJECT is presently enrolled at the University of
Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin, and will not be available for further contact in
this area. FROMER declined to sign a statement in verification of the opportunity
given HIM to be interviewed concerning HIS qualification of DD Form 398 and refusal
to fill out DD Form 98.

5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT
ERIC R. MCKNIGHT, 115th MI Gp (I)

6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT

Eric R. McKnight

DA FORM 341
1 APR 52

REPLACES WD AGO FORM 341, 1 JUN 47, WHICH MAY BE USED.

NW 88613 DocId:34528609 Page 2
