Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case #: NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

Date: 01/14/98
Page: 1

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER: 194-10004-10376
RECORDS SERIES: DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: PAGES 31-32

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: USA
FROM: [RESTRICTED]
TO: [RESTRICTED]
TITLE:
DATE: 11/21/68
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS:
MARTI, MANUEL
EDUCATION RECORD
EDUCATION INTERVIEW
BRONX COMMUNITY COLLEGE
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS:

NW 88613 DocId:34529192 Page 1

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT
SUBJECT: MARTI, Manuel NMN
ASN-SSN: US 52 737 780
DOB/POB: 17 May 1946, San Juan, Puerto Rico
POB:

2. DATE SUBMITTED
21 November 1968

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER
8240-6019
093 36 4601

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

LISTED EDUCATION RECORD
SCHOOL: Bronx Community College (BCC)
ADDRESS: 120 East 184th Street, Bronx, New York (N.Y.)
SOURCE: Mrs. Mildred Kraft, Assistant Registrar

Subject's Name with Aliases: Manuel MARTI
Address: 1201 University Avenue, Bronx, N.Y.
Previous Addresses: None Listed
Date and Place of Birth: Not Listed
Date of Attendance: Summer Session 1967
Courses and/or Major: Not Listed
Instructors: Not Listed
Graduate (Degree): Non-Matriculant
Grades: Not indicated
Record of Transcripts: Not Listed
Previous Education: Not Listed
Employments: Not Listed
Parents or Guardian: Not Listed
Remarks:
SUBJECT'S records at BCC are incomplete.
SUBJECT did not forward customary papers,
such as transcripts of previous education,
to BCC.

5. NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT
HAROLD LEHRER, 108th MI Group (I-NYFO)

6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT

NW 88613 DocId:34529192 Page 2

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT
MARTI, Manuel NMN
PVT E-1, US 52 737 780
DPOB: 17 May 1946, San Juan, Puerto Rico

2. DATE SUBMITTED
21 November 1968

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER
8240-6019
093 36 4601

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

(EDUCATION INTERVIEW) On 27 September 1968, Mrs. Mildred
Kraft, assistant registrar, Bronx Community College (BCC), 120 East
184th Street, Bronx, New York, was interviewed in an attempt to
locate former instructors of MARTI, who attended BCC during the Summer
session of 1967, with results as follows:

Kraft stated that MARTI'S records were incomplete, and that
there was no indication as to who HIS instructors might have been. There
was no major course of study. Source could suggest no one who might have
knowledge of SUBJECT.

5. NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT
HAROLD LEHRER, 108th MI Group (I-NYFO)

6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT

DA FORM 341, 1 APR 52 REPLACES WD AGO FORM 341, 1 JUN 47, WHICH MAY BE USED.

NW 88613 DocId:34529192 Page 3
