197-10002-10190 [2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

**AGENCY INFORMATION**

AGENCY : USA
RECORD NUMBER : 197-10002-10190
RECORDS SERIES : HEADQUARTERS FILES, PENTAGON TELECOMMUNICATIONS CENTER
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
Date : 05/20/97
Page: 1

**DOCUMENT INFORMATION**

ORIGINATOR : CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
FROM :
TO :
TITLE : CIA TDCS-3/566,305
DATE : 00/00/63
PAGES : 3
SUBJECTS : WEST GERMANY: SOVIET MILITARY ALERT FOLLOWING KENNEDY ASSASSINATION
DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : SECRET
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : / /
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : [R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 50955 DocId: 32281398 Page 1

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CONTROL: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
SECURITY INFORMATION: SECRET
ROUTINE: NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TDCS-3/366,305

SUBJECT: HIGHLIGHTS OF MILITARY WEEKLY SUMMARY NO. 48
COUNTRY: USSR/EAST GERMANY/EASTERN FORCES
DATE OF INFO: 20-26 NOVEMBER 1963
PLACE & DATE ACO: GERMANY, MUNICH /29 NOVEMBER 1963/ IN TEXT.
REFERENCES:
SOURCE: OFFICIAL WEST GERMAN SERVICE FROM INFORMANTS OF VARYING RELIABILITY.
APPRAISAL: 3, EXCEPT WHERE OTHERWISE INDICATED/ FIELD REPORT NO. EGK-27396

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

FOLLOWING ARE HIGHLIGHTS FROM THE GERMAN SERVICE MILITARY WEEKLY SUMMARY NO 48/63, COVERING THE PERIOD OF 20-26 NOVEMBER 1963.

1. DURING THE WEEK UNDER REVIEW, THERE WERE NO INDICATIONS OF PREPARATION FOR ATTACK BY SOVIET BLOC FORCES.

2. PART A. GENERAL.

LAST WEEK'S EXERCISE AND TRAINING ACTIVITIES IN THE SOVIET BLOC ARMED FORCES WERE NORMAL AND WERE THUS IN KEEPING WITH THE GENERAL PACE OF TRAINING AT THIS TIME OF YEAR.

SOVIET AND SATELLITE FORCES REACTED TO THE ASSASSINATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES NOV 22ND WITH PRECAUTIONARY MEASURES OF A GENERAL NATURE WHICH MAY BE INTERPRETED AS A REACTION TO CORRESPONDING STAND-BY MEASURES OF THE U.S. FORCES.

IT IS EXPECTED THAT IN THE PRESENT SITUATION SOVIET TACTICS IN THE FIELD OF MILITARY POLICY WILL BE MARKED BY CAUTION.

3. PART B. ARMED FORCES.

A. USSR/EAST GERMAN.

1/ ON THE NIGHT OF 22/23 NOVEMBER, SPECIAL ALERT MEASURES WERE ORDERED IN THE ORANIENBURG-GARRISON FOR NVA UNITS AND POSSIBLY ALSO FOR SOVIET ARMY UNITS/SEVERAL B/F-3/. GERMAN COMMENT- THE MEASURE WAS PRESUMABLY TAKEN IN CONNECTION WITH THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY. IT APPARENTLY WAS CONFINED TO THE BERLIN AREA.

B. EAST GERMAN.

1/ SINCE MID-OCTOBER 1963, CONTROL POSTS /SO-CALLED HINTERLANDPOSTEN/ HAVE BEEN STAGGERED IN DEPTHS OF UP TO 1 KILOMETER FROM THE INTERZONAL BORDER DURING WEEKEND NIGHTS. /SEVERAL F-3/

4. PART C. GROUND FORCES.

A. SOVIET.

1/ SUMMARY: GERMAN COMMENT ON TRAINING /LOC/. TRAINING AT LOCAL TRAINING GROUNDS AND NUMEROUS DRIVING SCHOOLS IS INDICATIVE OF RECRUIT TRAINING. FROM 14 NOVEMBER THE ELEMENTS OF THE 21ST GUARDS TANK ARMY

TDCS-3/366,305

EXERCISES, PRESUMABLY AT REGIMENTAL LEVEL, AT THE LETZLINGER HEIDE AND ALTENGRABOW TROOP TRAINING GROUNDS.

SINCE 26 NOVEMBER, THERE HAVE BEEN TENTATIVE INDICATIONS OF ACTIVITY OUTSIDE GARRISONS OF ELEMENTS OF THE 34TH ARTILLERY DIV. NO OBSERVATIONS HAVE BEEN MADE AS YET INDICATIVE OF EXERCISES WITH FULL UNITS PARTICIPATING.

5. PART D. AIR FORCES. NO HIGHLIGHTS PROVIDED.

6. PART E. NAVY.

A. SOVIET.

1/ ON 25 NOVEMBER 1963, ONE F-CLASS SUBMARINE, WITHOUT PT-NUMBER, PASSED NORTHWARD THROUGH THE GREAT BELT. /B-2/

7. PART F. LOGISTICS, AND PART G. PSYCHOLOGICAL

NO HIGHLIGHTS PROVIDED.

FIELD DISTRIBUTION: ARMY, AIR, NAVY, USEUCOM

END OF MESSAGE

ACTION: ACSI, NAVY, A7, JCS, C3D
INFO: DCSOP

DA IN 157972
