```markdown
198-10004-10076 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

JFK Assassination System Date: 6/24/201

Agency Information

AGENCY : ARMY
RECORD NUMBER : 198-10004-10076
RECORD SERIES : CALIFANO PAPERS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: ARMY
FROM: JOSEPH A. CALIFANO, JR.
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 00/00/1963
PAGES: 123
SUBJECTS :
EXAMINATION OF PRINCIPAL SOURCES OF POLICY AND
CONTINGENCY PLANNING ON CUBA
NATIONAL SECURITY ACTIONS ON CUBA
U.S. POLICY TOWARD THE CUBAN BRIGADE
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; IC
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/24/1997
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :
Califano Papers, Box 6, Folder 6. Indexed collection of CIA, DOD, DOS, and NSC reports.

JFK Assassination Records
Department of the Army EO 13526
☑ Declassify ☐ Exclude Exempt
Authority
Refer To.
Review Date 12/8/2015 By K.Estmer

HW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 1

---

NO. SUBJECT DATE

1 CIA Report No. CS DB-3/652, 924 17 Jan 63
(SECRET -NOFORN)

2 Memo fr McGeorge Bundy to NSC Exec Comm(C) 22 Jan 63
w/6 Incls: 1(S); 2(TS);3(S); 4(S); 5(S) and 6(S)

3 Drft Memo for NSC Exec Comm, subj: US Policy 23 Jan 63
Towards Cuba(TOP SECRET) (in dupe)

4 Memo for NSC Exec Comm, subj as above(TOP SECRET) 23 Jan 63

5 Memo for NSC Exec Comm, subj as above, from 23 Jan 63
DoD Rep on ICCC (TOP SECRET -SENSITIVE)

6 DepSecDef ltr to Mr Vance, subj: US Policy Towards 23 Jan 63
Cuba, Cy 2 of 6, Control #559 (TOP SECRET) w/1
Incl, Coord of Cuban Affairs Memo for NSC Exec Comm,
Subj: US Policy Toward Cuba(TOP SECRET)

7 Dept of State Memo for Mr Bundy, subj: Papers for 24 Jan 63
NSC Exec Comm Mtg, 25 Jan 63. (TOP SECRET)

8 National Security Actions on Cuba (Pending and Undtd
Closed) (TOP SECRET)

9 Memo to Mr Cottrell from Mr. Ford, subj: Examina- 4 Feb 63
tion of Principal Sources of Policy and Contingency
Planning on Cuba (TOP SECRET-SENSITIVE)

HW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 2

---

HW 50955 DocId:32276061 Page 3

---

SECRET SENSITIVE

February 4, 1963

TO : ARA - Mr. Cottrell
FROM : S/P - John W. Ford
SUBJECT: Examination of Principal Sources of Policy and Contingency Planning on Cuba

In accordance with your instructions, over the week-end
I have reviewed the main sources of policy on Cuba. The problem
as I define it is as follows:

The Problem:

Prior to the establishment of the Interdepartmental Coordinating Committee of Cuban Affairs, much work has been done on Cuba, both in the policy and contingency fields. The purpose of the current exercise is to review and identify the main sources of such policy and contingency planning in an effort to determine if any of the work previously done will be of value to the officers of your committee as we go forward with implementation of the newly stated Cuban policy and objectives.

Sources of Policy and Contingency Planning:

The principal sources of policy and contingency planning which may or may not be of value to the work of your committee are as follows:

1. The National Security Action Memoranda emanating from the White House.

2. The Actions of the National Security Council.

3. The Basic National Security Policy of the U.S. (now awaiting final stages of formal clearance before presentation to National Security Council).

HW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 4

SECRET SENSITIVE

---

SECRET SENSITIVE

4. The Records of Action of the Executive Committee of the National Security Council as they pertain to Cuba.

5. The Reports of the Sub-Committees of EXCOM during the Cuban Crisis.

6. The Resolutions of the Organization of American States and the Punta del Este Conference.

7. Public Statements of Government Officials, in Particular Press Conference of President Kennedy of September 13, 1962.

8. Meeting of Secretary Rusk with Foreign Ministers of Latin America during Cuban Crisis.

9. Recently Approved New Policy Statement and Objectives as Drawn Up by the Interdepartmental Committee of Cuban Affairs.

10. Cuban Guidelines Paper.
(A guidelines paper as such does not exist on Cuba as is the case in a majority of other countries.)

CONCLUSIONS:

There are well over eight volumes of material concerned with Cuba, particularly that generated during the recent October crisis. This review is nearing completion, and I am segregating particular reports which may be of value to the members of your committee as we go forward with implementation of the new policy and objectives. In the attached documentation, I have segregated those National Security Council decisions and National Security Action Memoranda which are carried as pending or closed in the files of the Department of State. Where action on a particular NSC decision or NASAM has been transferred to EXCOM, action responsibility on these decisions would appear now to be within the purview of your Coordinating Committee. From my review to date,

HW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 5

SENSITIVE

---

SENSITIVE

to date, it appears that all of these decisions call for actions which have already been considered by your Committee. You will note that in some instances action responsibility on an NSC decision or NASAM has been transferred to the Special Group (etc. Alexis Johnson).

Attachment:
List of Pending and closed
NSC and NASAM decisions
concerning Cuba.

HW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 6

SENSITIVE

---

HW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 7

---

NATIONAL SECURITY ACTIONS ON CUBA
(PENDING AND CLOSED)

HW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 8

---

SECRET

NSC Action No. Substance Status

483 NSC 2422a Agreed that US policy toward (Pending)
5/5/61 Cuba should aim at the downfall According to
of Castro regime. files, out of
this NSC direct-
ive grew a policy
paper, to be
handled different-
ly from regular
guidelines papers
on each country.

483 NSC 2422b As of 9/4/62, White House (Pending)
5/5/61 was informed that action on this Action to be
NSC directive would be reported reported in
in compliance with NSAM 181 compliance with
which transferred certain NSC & NASAM 181
NASAM actions to special group (Johnson channel)
(Alexis Johnson).

483 NSC 2422c Importance President (Pending)
5/5/61 attaches to obtaining Action trans-
adequate intelligence ferred to EXCOM
on Cuban military
capabilities.

483 NSC 2422d Importance President (Pending)
5/5/61 attaches to publication Action trans-
in free world press of ferred to EXCOM
terrorist actions of
Castro regime, etc. and
to possible political action
to end current terror.

483 NSC 2422i Relations with Cuban (Pending)
5/5/61 Revolutionary Council Action trans-
should be improved. ferred to EXCOM

483 NSC 2422k Cuban refugees to be given (Pending)
5/5/61 refugee status; refugees in Action trans-
Miami to be relocated; ferred to EXCOM
refugees to be eligible to
apply for travel privileges.

Initiation of negotiations
to enlarge willingness of
other American states to
join in action against Castro.

HW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 9

---

SECRET

NSC Action No. Substance Status

483 NSC 2422m USIA will expand L.A. (Pending)
5/5/61 program, but not initiate Action trans-
electronic warfare against ferred to
Castro; means of propaganda Johnson channel
should be made available For NASAM
to non-US groups. #181.

483 NSC 2422o US military officers under (Closed)
5/5/61 general guidance to be completed action
prepared by Dept of State, as of 11/28/61.
would discuss Castro threat
to all L.A. with L.A. officers.

483 NSC 2422o Dept of State should prepare (Closed)
5/5/61 a report on a possible new S/P paper
juridical basis for effective "possible new
anti-communist action. Basis for Anti-
Communist Action"
7/24/61

483 NSC 2422p Robert Woodward's assumption Closed.
5/5/61 of responsibility of Task Force
on Cuba on announcement of
appointment.

483 NSC 2422b No US military intervention Closed.
5/5/61 now. Do nothing which would
foreclose possibility military
intervention in future.

483 NSC 2422c No naval blockade or air war Closed.
5/5/61 against Cuba.

483 NSC 2422z Detailed study to be made Closed.
5/5/61 by CIA with other Departments Bissell memo to
of possible weaknesses and Achilles
vulnerabilities in elements 11/21/61 res
which control Cuba. "Situation and
Prospects in
Cuba" by Sherman
Kent 11/3/61.

HW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 10

---

NSC Action No. Substance Status

483 NSC 2422h No separate Cuban military Closed.
5/5/61 forces should be organized DRF recommended
in U.S. Cuban nationals would to Pres. draft
be encouraged enlist in US Program be
Armed Forces. terminated
6/30/62 due to
modest results.

483 NSC 2422j No immediate trade embargo Closed,
5/5/61 on Cuba. with President's
action of 2/3/62
declaring total embargo on trade
with Cuba with exception
medicine and food on humanitarian
grounds.

483 NSC 2422l Alliance for Progress to be Closed.
5/5/61 strengthened. Weekly report
now from AID
to White House.

NASAM 194 Policy Toward non-bloc Pending.
10/2/62 ships in Cuban trade (Action Action trans-
US Government proposes to ferred to
take with regard to EXCOM.
shipping to Cuba.)

NASAM 100 Contingency Planning for Pending
10/3/61 Cuba. Action trans-
ferred to
Johnson channel.

CUBA NASAM #31 US Government must have ready Closed.
3/11/62 a White Paper on Cuba and be Paper prepared
ready to give assistance to and translated:
Cuban Patriots in similar "The Castro
effort. Regime in Cuba"
9/61

CUBA NASAM #181 Eyes only • Limited Distrib- Closed.
8/24/62 ution. Reporting to be through
another channel and handled
personally by Deputy USecy
Johnson (understand this authorized response
on certain pending NSC Actions, 2 NASAMS thru
Johnson channel)

HW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 11

---

SECRET

NSC Action No. Substance Status

CUBA NASAM 196 Establishment of NSC Executive Closed.
10/22/62 Committee Report Submitted.

CUBA NASAM 200 Cuba Overflights. (This Closed.
12/6/62 Presidential directive
approved an attached
Guidelines for the Planning
of Cuban Overflights, and
requested CIA to come up with
an estimate of the adequacy of
such a system of intelligence
collection to meet the criteria
set forth, on assumption it is
supplemented by energetic collection
of information by all other available
means.)

EYES ONLY Interdepartmental Organization Closed.
CUBA NASAM 213 of Cuban Affairs
1/8/63 with
responsibility vested in a
Coordinator of Cuban affairs
in Department of State.

HW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 12

---

HW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 13

---

TOP SECRET ATTACHMENTS

DEPARTMENT OF STATE

January 24, 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR MR. McGEORGE BUNDY
THE WHITE HOUSE

Subject: Papers for NSC Executive Committee
Meeting, January 25 at 4:00 p.m.

Attached are two revised papers "Summary of Coordinator's Recommendations" and "United States Policy Toward Cuba" which are being transmitted to members of the NSC Executive Committee for consideration at the meeting of the Committee on Friday, January 25 at 4:00 p.m. Also attached is a new page 8 for the paper entitled "United States Policy Toward the Cuban Brigade." The other two papers transmitted on January 22 remain unchanged and will also be considered at the Friday meeting. They are "United States Policy in Cuba in the Organization of American States" and "Current Problems Concerning Cuba."

William H. Brubeck
Executive Secretary
Secretariat

Attachments:
As stated.
Copy No.

HW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 14

TOP SECRET ATTACHMENTS

---

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR THE NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL'S EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
(Prepared for the Meeting of Friday, January 25, 1963, 4 p.m.)

FROM : Coordinator of Cuban Affairs

SUBJECT: United States Policy Toward Cuba

United States Policy

On November 20, the President set forth the broad guidelines of United States policy with respect to Cuba in the following words:

"As for our part, if all offensive weapons systems are removed from Cuba and kept out of the hemisphere in the future, under adequate verification and safeguards, and if Cuba is not used for the export of aggressive communist purposes, there will be peace in the Caribbean. And, as I said in September, 'we shall neither initiate nor permit aggression in this hemisphere.'

"We will not, of course, abandon the political, economic and other efforts of this hemisphere to halt subversion from Cuba, nor our purpose and hope that the Cuban people shall some day be truly free. But these policies are very different from any intent to launch a military invasion of the island."

HW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 15

TOP SECRET

---

SECRET

-2-

Objectives

Accordingly, the objectives of United States policy with respect to Cuba are:

1. Protecting the security of the United States and the other states of the Organization of American States (OAS) by assuring that offensive weapons are not reintroduced into Cuba;

2. Removal of remaining Soviet forces from Cuba;

3. Preventing Cuba from taking any aggressive military action against other Caribbean states;

4. Reducing the capabilities of the Castro regime to direct and support subversion and insurrection within the other Hemisphere states;

5. Encouraging and supporting any developments within Cuba that offer the possibility of divorcing the Cuban Government from its support of Sino-Soviet Communist purposes;

6. Encouraging and supporting any developments within Cuba that offer the possibility of replacing the Cuban Government with a regime that would break with the Sino-Soviet Bloc, it being understood that our ultimate objective is replacement of the regime by one fully compatible with the goals of the United States;

HW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 16

SECRET

---

SECRET

-3-

7. Maximizing the cost to the Soviet Union of supporting the Castro regime;

8. Maximizing the political isolation of the Castro regime from other free world states, and especially from states of the OAS. Whenever possible, U. S. actions against Cuba should be multilateral, preferably based upon the Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance (Rio Pact) or on resolutions adopted by the Organization of American States. The newly-won hemispheric solidarity on the Cuban issue should not be jeopardized by seeking OAS actions of marginal value and which might split the hemisphere;

9. Being prepared to meet, with the employment of appropriate U. S. combat elements and/or logistical support, the wide variety of military contingencies that may arise from pursuit of the foregoing objectives; and

10. Producing comprehensive intelligence related to the above objectives.

Supporting Actions

A. To achieve the foregoing objectives, the U. S. Government will be prepared to increase the political economic, psychological and military pressures, as appropriate opportunities present themselves or can be created. The actions listed below are those requiring immediate approval and would be initiated in the sequence set forth below. Recommendations for further

HW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 17

SECRET

---

SECRET

-4-

actions based upon the re-examination of existing programs and upon the development of new programs related to the foregoing objectives will be forthcoming.

1. In addition to current covert program, such as intelligence collection, recruitment of Cuban officials as agents, radio broadcasts, support of the Cuban Revolutionary Council (CRC) and other exile group activities and infiltration of propaganda materials:

a. Intensify covert collection of intelligence within Cuba, especially within the regime;

b. Support the efforts of certain Cuban exiles, who are associated with the original aims of the 26 of July Movement and who believe that the Castro regime can be overthrown from within in order that they may: 1) cause a split in the leadership of the regime at the national or provincial levels; and 2) create a political base of popular opposition to the regime; and, 3) secure intelligence;

c. Assist Cuban exiles in developing a capability to launch balloons carrying leaflets and other propaganda materials from international waters into Cuba. Launch propaganda balloons after an operational capability has been established.

HW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 18

SECRET

---

SECRET

-5-

2. With respect to the actions listed below, the results of Mr. Donovan's imminent negotiations with Fidel Castro for freeing the 20-odd American prisoners should first be ascertained. If these actions were taken before the conclusion of the negotiations they could jeopardize the release of the Americans.

3. If these negotiations fail, or when the prisoners are recovered, proceed on the following timetable:

4. Inform NATO and OAS twelve hours in advance of the proclamation of the four point shipping orders. (The proclamation calls for the orders to go into effect in five days). These orders:

a. Close United States ports to all vessels of a country whose vessels engage in carrying arms to Cuba;

b. Close United States ports to any ship which has carried goods in the Bloc-Cuba trade within 120 days of the time it seeks to enter a United States port;

c. Prohibit all United States flag ships and all ships owned by United States nationals or residents from entering any ports of Cuba and from carrying any goods bound to or from Cuba; and

HW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 19

SECRET

---

SECRET

-6-

d. Prohibit any cargo sponsored by any department of the United States from being shipped on vessels owned or controlled by persons who own or control vessels engaged in the trade between Cuba and the Soviet Bloc.

5. At the termination of the U. S. Chiefs of Mission Conference - January 20-30, or at a later date dependent on the Donovan mission, Assistant Secretary Martin, or another representative of the President will visit the Presidents of Chile, Mexico and Brazil to convey to them the importance President Kennedy attaches to maintaining hemispheric solidarity by their supporting the following resolutions:

a. An OAS resolution condemning Cuba for its actions which continue to endanger the peace, deploring refusal to allow inspection, condemning the presence of Soviet troops, recommending continued surveillance and continued vigilance against subversive activities, and terminating the invocation of the Rio Treaty on the missile crisis, together with

b. An OAS resolution which would recommend 1) extension of arms embargo to all items of trade except food and medicine (fall back position: extension of arms embargo to all strategic items);

HW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 20

SECRET

---

SECRET

-7-

2) prohibition of ships of OAS member states from transporting embargoed items and deny use of ports to ships in Bloc-Cuba trade;

3) denial of Soviet over-flights and transit rights for flights to Cuba; and 4) a call on other states to take similar action.

6. After obtaining the maximum possible support of the key countries of Mexico, Chile and Brazil, the other OAS members will be approached in Washington and in their respective capitals, simultaneously. It should be possible for this consultation and OAS action on the resolutions to be completed within ten days. Prior to formal COAS approval of the resolutions, we will inform our NATO allies of the impending OAS action.

7. At the first NATO meeting after formal OAS action on the resolutions, we will request that NATO include Cuba on the list of countries to which shipment of COCOM list (strategic) items is prohibited.

8. After NATO decision on our COCOM request, we will seek to get agreement from Free World industrial nations to prevent shipping of critical spare parts and equipment to Cuba, not on the COCOM list.

9. In addition to the four point shipping resolutions, and action under Section 107 of the Foreign Assistance Act, continue to press Free World nations to keep their shipping out of Bloc-Cuba trade.

HW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 21

SECRET

---

SECRET

-8-

B. Contingency Planning

New opportunities for accomplishing our objectives may arise either as a result of Bloc action in other parts of the world; as a result of aggressive moves (or isolated hostile actions) by the Castro-Communist regime itself; or as a result of uprisings or internal conflict within Cuba.

Our contingency planning, which will be undertaken immediately, should include preparations for increased multilateral and/or bilateral political and economic measures, large scale use of Cubans who are now inside Cuba; more extensive air activity including both high and low level flights primarily directed toward surveillance and collection of intelligence, and which may also have the effect of embarrassing the Castro government and keeping the Castro forces on continual alert; retaliatory measures, as appropriate, including the imposition of a POL blockade; harrassment of Cuban officials in other countries; severance of communications to Cuba; major acts of sabotage on shipping destined for Cuba and on key installations to Cuba; intensive naval patrols; and, ultimately, the use of U. S. military force. To the extent feasible, U. S. military forces employed against Cuba should be accompanied by U. S. militarily-trained free Cubans and by the armed forces of those Latin American nations desirous of participating in the U. S. effort.

HW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 22

SECRET

---

SECRET

Our programs should be designed to encourage the Brigade members to melt back into the exile community and engage in constructive pursuits pending the liberation of Cuba. We should offer them some special assistance but not to the extent that they become a perpetual privileged class within the community. Presidential action on their behalf would single them out unnecessarily.

HW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 23

SECRET

---

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR THE NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL'S EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
(Prepared for the Meeting of Friday, January 25, 1933, 10 a.m.)

FROM : Coordinator of Cuban Affairs

SUBJECT: Summary of Coordinator's Recommendations

1. U. S. Policy Objectives

The following are the objectives of the U. S. with respect to Cuba:

a. Protecting the security of the United States and the other states of the Organization of American States by assuring that offensive weapons are not reintroduced into Cuba;

b. Removal of remaining Soviet forces from Cuba;

c. Preventing Cuba from taking any aggressive military action against other Caribbean states;

d. Reducing the capabilities of the Castro regime to direct and support subversion and insurrection within the other OAS states;

e. Encouraging and supporting any developments within Cuba that offer the possibility of divorcing the Cuban Government from its support of Sino-Soviet Communist purposes;

f. Encouraging and supporting any developments within Cuba that offer the possibility of replacing the Cuban Government with a regime that would break with the Sino-Soviet Bloc, it

HW 50955 DocId:32276061 Page 24

SECRET

---

SECRET

-2-

g. being understood that our ultimate objective is replacement of the regime by one fully compatible with the goals of the United States;

h. Maximizing the cost to the Soviet Union of supporting the Castro regime;

i. Maximizing the political isolation of the Castro regime from other Free World states, and especially from states of the OAS. Whenever possible, U. S. actions against Cuba should be multilateral, preferably based upon the Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance (Rio Pact) or on resolutions adopted by the Organization of American States. The newly-won hemispheric solidarity on the Cuban issue should not be jeopardized by seeking OAS actions of marginal value and which might split the hemisphere;

j. Being prepared to meet, with the employment of appropriate U. S. combat elements and/or logistical support, the wide variety of military contingencies that may arise from pursuit of the foregoing objectives; and

k. Producing comprehensive intelligence related to the above objectives.

2. Supporting Actions

Actions in support of these objectives and their time sequence are set forth in the attached paper entitled "U. S. Policy Toward Cuba." They include the four point shipping regulations, OAS sanctions, NATO

HW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 25

SECRET

---

SECRET

-3-

action to include Cuba on the COCOM list, and approaches to Free World industrial nations to eliminate sale and shipment of critical items from their Cuban trade.

Existing programs will be reviewed and further recommendations made as necessary. Planning for the variety of contingencies related to Cuba will be undertaken at once.

In addition to current covert programs such as intelligence collection, recruitment of Cuban officials, support of the Cuban Revolutionary Council (CRC) and other exile activities, infiltration of propaganda materials, and radio broadcasts, the following are recommended for approval and immediate initiation:

a. intensified covert collection of intelligence within Cuba, especially within the regime;

b. support of Cuban exiles who are seeking to return the 26 of July Movement to its original aims.

NOTE: It should be noted that approval of the foregoing actions may impair our ability to accomplish objective b. (Removal of remaining Soviet forces from Cuba) because taking these actions could provide the U.S.S.R. with rationale for maintaining its forces in Cuba. Nevertheless, approval of the foregoing actions is recommended.

3. Cuban Brigade

Brigade leaders should be induced to accept a specially tailored civilian and military program for Brigade members.

HW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 26

SECRET

---

SECRET

-4-

The Brigade should be disbanded as a military unit and individual members urged to accept civilian training or to enlist in the existing U. S. military program for Cubans and join a Brigade reserve unit thereafter. Our moral obligation would be discharged to the Brigade members and creation of a privileged class in the exile community would be avoided.

HW 50955 DocId:32276061 Page 27

SECRET

---

HW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 28

---

TOP SECRET

THE DEPUTY SECRETARY OF DEFENSE
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

January 23, 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR MR. VANCE

SUBJECT: United States Policy Toward Cuba

Attached is a revision of paper #2 submitted by the Coordinator of Cuban Affairs for the meeting of the NSC Executive Committee on the above subject, that has now been rescheduled for Friday at 4:00 p.m. The revision consists essentially of what is now denominated as "ALTERNATIVE I" in the proposed statement of policy and related courses of action with respect to Cuba, supplemented by the insertion of the paragraphs marked in red at the top of page 3 and on page 7 of the revision. This supplemental material is derived from portions of the text of "ALTERNATIVE II" in the original paper.

At luncheon today with Alexis Johnson, I handed him the attached revision and told him Mr. McNamara's and my reasons for suggesting the expansion of State's paper to include the supplemental material referred to above. He, in turn, will discuss the revision with Mr. Cottrell who will thereafter be in touch with you. If possible, will you let me know by noon tomorrow where you and he stand with regard to the revised paper.

SIGNED
ROSWELL L. GILPATRIC

cc: Mr. McNamara
General Taylor
Mr. Yarmolinsky

Enclosure
Control No. 559.
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
REGRADING; DOD DIR 5200.10
DOES NOT APPLY

HW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 29

SECRET COPY 2 OF 6 COPIES.

---

SECRET

DOD

DRAFT/23 Jan 63

MEMORANDUM FOR THE NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL'S EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

FROM : Coordinator of Cuban Affairs

SUBJECT: United States Policy Toward Cuba

United States Policy

On November 20, the President set forth the broad guidelines of United States policy with respect to Cuba in the following words:

"As for our part, if all offensive weapons systems are removed from Cuba and kept, out of the hemisphere in the future, under adequate verification and safeguards, and if Cuba is not used for the export of aggressive communist purposes, there will be peace in the Caribbean. And, as I said in September, 'we shall neither initiate nor permit aggression in this hemisphere'.

"We will not, of course, abandon the political, economic and other efforts of this hemisphere to halt subversion from Cuba, nor our purpose and hope that the Cuban people shall some day be truly free. But these policies are very different from any intent to launch a military invasion of the island."

Objectives

Accordingly, the objectives of U.S. policy with respect to Cuba are:

1. Protecting the security of the United States and the other states of the Organization of American States (OAS) by assuring that offensive weapons are not reintroduced into Cuba;

HW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 30

SECRET

---

SECRET

2. Removal of remaining Soviet forces from Cuba;

3. Preventing Cuba from taking any aggressive military action against other Caribbean states;

4. Reducing the capabilities of the Castro regime to direct and support subversion and insurrection within the other OAS states;

5. Encouraging and supporting any developments within Cuba that offer the possibility of divorcing the Cuban Government from its support of Sino-Soviet Communist purposes or replacing the Government with a regime which would accomplish this purpose;

6. Maximizing the cost to the Soviet Union of supporting the Castro regime;

7. Maximizing the political isolation of the Castro regime from other free world states, and especially from states of the OAS. Whenever possible, U.S. actions against Cuba should be multilateral, preferably based upon the Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance (Rio Pact) or on resolutions adopted by the Organization of American States. The newly-won hemispheric solidarity on the Cuban issue should not be jeopardized by seeking OAS actions of marginal value and which might split the hemisphere.

8. Being prepared to meet, with the employment of appropriate U.S. combat elements and/or logistical support, the wide variety of military contingencies that may arise from pursuit of the foregoing objectives; and;

HW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 31

SECRET

---

SECRET

9. Producing comprehensive intelligence related to the above objectives.

Our ultimate objective with respect to Cuba remains the overthrow of the Castro/Communist regime and its replacement by one compatible with the objectives of the U. S. and, where possible, sharing the aims of the Free World. To achieve this objective, the U.S. Government will be prepared to apply increasing degrees of political, economic, psychological and military pressures, as appropriate opportunities present themselves or can be created, until the Castro/Communist regime is overthrown.

Isolating, undermining and discrediting the Castro/Communist regime through the exercise of all feasible diplomatic, economic, psychological and covert actions may achieve the immediate objectives and could create propitious conditions in Cuba for further advance toward our ultimate objective.

Supporting Actions

The following actions should be initiated in the sequence set forth below:

1. Await results of Mr. Donovan's imminent negotiation with Fidel Castro for freeing the 20-odd American prisoners. Prior aggressive U. S. action could jeopardize their release.

2. If these negotiations fail, or when the prisoners are recovered, proceed on the following timetable:

3. Inform NATO and OAS twelve hours in advance of the proclamation of the four point shipping orders. (The proclamation calls for the orders to go into effect in five days). These orders:

a. close United States ports to all vessels of a country whose vessels engage in carrying arms to Cuba;

b. close United States ports to any ship which has carried goods in the bloc-Cuba trade within 120 days of the time it seeks to enter a United States port;

c. prohibit all United States flag ships and all ships owned by United States nationals or residents from entering any ports of Cuba and from carrying any goods bound to or from Cuba; and

HW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 32

SECRET

---

SECRET

d. prohibit any cargo sponsored by any department or agency of the United States from being shipped on vessels owned or controlled by persons who own or control vessels engaged in the trade between Cuba and the Soviet bloc.

4. At the termination of the U. S. Chiefs of Mission Conference in El Salvador on January 28-30 Assistant Secretary Martin will visit the Presidents of Chile, Mexico and Brazil to convey to them the importance President Kennedy attaches to maintaining hemispheric solidarity by supporting the following resolutions:

a. An OAS resolution condemning Cuba for its actions which continue to endanger the peace, deploring refusal to allow inspection, condemning the presence of Soviet troops, recommending continued surveillance and continued vigilance against subversive activities, and terminating the invocation of the Rio Treaty on the missile crisis, together with

b. An OAS resolution which would recommend 1) extension of arms embargo to all items of trade except food and medicine (fall back position: extension of arms embargo to all strategic items); 2) prohibition of AR ships from transporting embargoed items and deny use of ports to ships in Bloc-Cuba trade; 3) denial of Soviet over-flights and transit rights for flights to Cuba; and 4) a call on other states to take similar action.

5. After obtaining the maximum possible support of the key countries of Mexico, Chile and Brazil, the other OAS members will be approached in Washington

HW 50955 DocId: 32276061 Page 33

SECRET

---

TOP SECRET

-5-

and in their respective capitals, simultaneously. It should be possible for this consultation and OAS action on the resolutions to be completed within ten days. Prior to formal COAS approval of the resolutions, we will inform our NATO allies of the impending OAS action.

6. At the first NATO meeting after formal OAS action on the resolutions, we will request that NATO include Cuba on the list of countries to which shipment of COCOM list (strategic) items is prohibited.

7. After NATO decision on our COCOM request, we will seek to get