202-10001-10219 | 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

Date: 08/04/98
Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: JCS
RECORD NUMBER: 202-10001-10219
RECORDS SERIES: FOIA SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: DOC 220

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: OSD
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: OPERATION MONGOOSE PROGRESS
DATE: 05/31/62
PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS: MONGOOSE

DOCUMENT TYPE: MEMORANDUM
CLASSIFICATION: TOP SECRET
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/30/98
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: Reviewed by OSD, CIA, State.

NO JOINT STAFF OBJECTION
TO DECLASSIFICATION
REQUIRES CONCURRENCE OF CIA

--- Page 2 ---

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

31 May 1962

The Department of State has no objection to the
release or declassification of this document in full
under the provisions of the JFK Assassination Records
Collection Act of 1992 (PL102-526).

MEMORANDUM FOR THE SPECIAL GROUP (AUGMENTED)
From: Brig. Gen. Lansdale
Subject: Operation Mongoose Progress

Intelligence build-up by CIA includes efforts to recruit a
Cuban diplomat in-place and an official in an airlines office in
Havana. The CIA team placed in Finar del Rio Province last
March was successfully re-supplied by maritime means on
24 May. The Navy and CIA have worked out a cooperative effort
to strengthen the U.S. security and intelligence program at
Guantanamo.

The CAC continues to provide word from inside Cuba cover-
ing local security moves and popular unrest (unrest reportedly
increasing). A substantial reduction in oil refining and manu-
facture of tires and tubes is reported from CAC sources.

Economic pressure upon the Communist regime may be
increased by a Department of Commerce move denying bunkering
facilities at U.S. ports to vessels under Sino-Soviet bloc charter
carrying cargo to Cuba. State Department reports having solicited
views of our Ambassador to Japan regarding possible approaches
to the Japanese asking them to cease sugar purchases from Cuba.

Propaganda efforts of USIA and CIA continue to apply pressure
upon the Cuban regime by focusing upon abuses of power and failure
of key programs such as radical and food. The VOA use of refugees
in interviews especially underlined this theme. I am looking into a
USIA proposal that we counter Communist Cuba moves to ingress
Latin America by participation in the athletic North Central American
and Caribbean Games set for August 11-23 in Kingston, Jamaica:
a "free Cuba" team might be effective, with good publicity support.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED 23 June 98

--- Page 3 ---

Incident at Guantanamo occurred 26 May when a light Cuban
aircraft landed there. Three Cubans had forced the pilot, at
pistol point, to land them at our Naval Base. With State's con-
currence, Defense acted: the Cuban pilot flew home, the 3 Cuban
escapees stayed on the base.

Fracturing the Regime has been given priority attention by
CIA. A senior case officer has been assigned full-time to this
specific action, and has preferential use of CIA assets. In
investigating desirable defection targets, CIA has found several who seem
vulnerable (including the Minister of National Economy, Leon Roul).

Priority Operations Schedule of 21 May, seeking some positive
actions in behalf of our project during the next several weeks, has
brought a very healthy response from CIA and USIA. The CIA
determination to meet the challenge has surfaced four policy-type
questions which I note for you on behalf of CIA:

1). Task 7, "Voice of Free Cuba," is almost immediately
feasible, if the Group will approve CIA arranging with
Navy for use of a submarine CIA has firm plans for
worrying the Communist regime through broadcasts
which would appear to come from local dissident groups
actively planning to harass the regime.

2). Task 10, CIA is prepared to disseminate leaflets on Castro's
failure to the Cuban population via balloon with a view of
increasing instability of the Communist regime. The
technique is tested and CIA has plans to operate from a
surface ship in international waters. The Group is
asked to approve the idea, including Navy support. This
could be operating in time to exploit the 26 July anniversary
of Castro's attack upon government forces at Santiago de
Cuba in 1953, for "the revolution" he has now betrayed.

3). Task 1, CIA believes it can recruit some 20-man teams
for possible use in beefing up resistance groups within Cuba.
Group approval is asked for Defense support in training,
holding, logistics. The 'noise level' hazard is noted, but
this special project could be almost unnoticed if timed with
proposed U.S. military enlistment of Cubans.

--- Page 4 ---

Task 23, Counterfeit Currency to increase Cuban economic
problems is considered feasible within 30-60 days upon a
limited basis and in considerable scale within six months.
CIA asks the Group approval before proceeding with this
action.

Other Tasks.
I note here that CIA does not feel it has the operational means
to undertake Task No. 22, black-market activities at this time. Further that Task No. 11, Time magazine dissemination, would require
operational facilities not now available. I accept indefinite deferral of
Task No. 22 and scrubbing of Task No. 11 on this basis.

The Department of State reaction, to my effort to get the U.S.
into priority actions towards our project's goals, has been disappointing
to me thus far. Apparently, my schedule of targets for special efforts
is accepted only as it may fit into long-range, existing programs already
under way. If this is the theory of our project, I believe that the project
then becomes only a special reporting device and not a special U.S.
effort to win the goal of helping the Cubans recapture their country
from a gang of Communists.

"Eyes Only" copies to:

1. General Taylor
2. Mr. Johnson
3. Mr. Gilpatric
4. Mr. McCone
5. Mr. Kennedy
6. General Lemnitzer
7. Chief of Operations
